AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 99.-—(Vol. V.—No. 3.) LONDON: JULY 17, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents.
The Establishment; of New Continental Spiritual Periodicals by
M. Aksakof .... ... ; ...       25
Notes on Church of England Doctrines. No. III. By Anonymous
Critics ' ... ...    26
Materialisation Manifestations in Indiana ... ... ...    27
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory on Undeveloped Spirits   ... 28
A Seance with Miss Showers. By Sir Charles Isham, Bart  28
Mr. Crookes on Materialisations      29
Spiritualism at Hampton Court  ... 30
A Seance at Hanover-square Rooms    '   30
Swedenborgianism versus Spiritualism.1 By. St. George Stock, B.A.
(Pemb. Col., Oxford)     ...     31
Poetry—My Benediction ...      ... 33
Correspondence—Work for the Spirits to do, 33; Seance with Mr.
Williams, 34; Spirit Photography, 34; Mr. Cogman’s Work in
East London, 34; Spiritual Poetry, 34; Materialised Spirit
Forms, 34; The Divining Rod, 35; Reichenbach’s Der Sensitive
Mench j •  ...    ... ..,'36
Paragraphs—Where are the Dead? 29; The Cornhill Magazine on
Spiritualism,5 29; Materialisations in Memphis, U.S., 29; Somnam¬
bulism, 36; A Sham Ghost in Westminster, 36; Spiritualism in
Cape Town, 36; Astronomical Speculations   ... ... ... ... 36
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned, by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of bpoks, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fkitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. ~
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings; Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer.' Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and' Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to •
'   FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
MRS. TAPPAN’S ENGAGEMENTS.
YORK, De Grey Rooms,
SALTBURN, Zetland Pavilion,
MIDBLESBOROUGH, Cleveland Hall,
DARLINGTON, Central Hall,
NEWCASTLE, Lpcture Rooms, Nelson-street,
STOCKTON-ON-TEES, Borough Hall,
GRIMSBOROUGH. Priory Hall,
LEEDS, Music Hall, Albion-street,
July 13 and 14.
„ 15
„ 16 and 17.
„ 20 and 24.
„ 21, 22, and 23.
„ 27 and 28.
,,, 30 and 31.
Aug 4, 5, and 6.
Letters for Mrs. Tappan may be addressed to her, to the care of Messrs.
Hinde Brothers, Eastbourne, Darlington, Yorkshire.
MISS ANNIE EVA FAY, the indescribable phe¬
nomenon, [from America, will give her extraordinary Light and Dark
Seances, at the Queen’s'Concert Rooms, Hanover-square, every evening,
until Saturday, July 25th, at half-past 8 o’clock. Plan and tickets with Mr.
Hall, at the rooms. Tickets can be obtained of Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Alfred
Hays. Mr. Bubb, Mr. Ollivier, Messrs. Keith and Prowse, Messrs. Lacon and
Ollier, and all agents. First row, reserved stalls 7s, 6d.; other reserved
stalls, 5s.; second-class 3s.; admission, 2s.
A GENTLEMAN, formerly Master of a Church Grammar
School, thrown out of occupation through his adoption of
Spiritualism, will be grateful if any brother Spiritualist will put him in
the way, directly or indirectly, of procuring in London, or elsewhere,
employment as PRIVATE SECRETARY, (Tutor, Master of School, or
otherwise. Address: Alpha, The Mansion, Leatherhead, Surrey.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE 1874 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
Will be held in London (Lawson’s Rooms, 145, Gower-street), from the
4th to the 7 th of August.
GENERAL PROGRAMME,
Tuesday, August ith.—Opening Soiree. Tea at 6 o’clock. Chairman’s
address at 8 o’clock, on detailed arrangements of conference.
Wednesday, August 5t/i.—First session of conference, 10 a.m. to 1 p.ml
Second session 3 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. Subjects for consideration: “ Organi¬
sation and the Physical Phenomena.”
Thursday, August 6th.—Third and fourth sessions at same hours. Sub¬
jects : Direct Voice, Writing, and Painting; Inspirational and Trance
Speaking; Spirit Photography; the Influence of Spiritualism on Humanity
—Past, Present, and Future.
Friday, August 1th.—Public Meetings at 3 and 6-30 at the Crystal Palace.
On the evenings of Wednesday and Thursday arrangements will be made
as far as practicable for the holding of seances for the different classes of
phenomena.
Terms of Admission: Soiree—Members’ tickets, Is. each; non-members,
Is. 6d. Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings, members free upon pre¬
sentation of their cardef membership; non-members Is. to each session, or
to each public meeting, or by 2s. 6d. ticket to the entire course. Non-mem¬
bers purchasing two 2s. 6d. tickets will have the privilege of nominating a
person to be a member of the Association until the end of the current year.
The Secretaries will be in attendance at the soiree for the purpose of re¬
cording the applications of persons properly introduced to becomejmemberi
of the Association. These, upon payment of the Members’ subscription, will
be entitled to admission to the Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings
free.
PERSONS willing to CONTRIBUTE PAPERS on the
following subjects are invited to send their names to A. Jot, Esq., 25,
James-street, Buckingham Gate.
1. The best meahs to be employed by the Association in promoting the
organisation of Spiritualists.
2. The philosophy and purpose of physical manifestations.
3. The best conditions (mental,physical and social), for evolving physical
manifestations.
4. The “Direct” Voice, Writing, and Painting.
5. Inspirational and trance speaking.
6. On Spirit Photography.
7. The Influence of Spiritualism on Humanity, Past, Present, and
Future.
The papers must be sent to A. Jot, Esq., not later than Friday, the 31st
July. All accepted papers to remain the property of the Association, un¬
less specially agreed otherwise. Non-members contributing accepted
papers will be elected Honorary Members for the remainder of the current
year. T. Everitt, Chairman, Conference Committee.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
East London spiritual meetings. — leg-.
TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. TyermAN.
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 17, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of tlie active members and friends of tbis
Association was held on Sunday, tire 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
pf the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Lib'arian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERT soon after tbe introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in [Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of sea/nces, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Uommittee
Rooms, 30. Parkfleld-street, Islington.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo.
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Renew.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Surviva
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
 London: Trubker & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill. 
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospeetua
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Ne wspaper,
W. H. GILBERT TATE,
PORTRAIT AND LANDSCAPE. PHOTOGRAPHER.
STUDIO45, CHEAPSIDE.
(Opposite Wood-street), London, E.C.
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
TO VENDORS OF SPIRITUAL PERIODICALS —
Contents Bills of every number of The Spiritualist, for exhibition in
shop windows and at public meetings, may now be obtained weekly, on
application. Newsvendors are each requested to order one with their
weekly supply of papers.—London, E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientiflc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs, Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
List of Prices. £ s. d.
Album Portraits     6 for 0 5 0
„ „      ... ... ... ... ... 12 0 7 6
„ ,, (2 positions)   12 „ 0 9 0
Group of two  : 12 „ 0 10 0
Tinting from Is 6d. each extra.
Vignettes   12 for 0 10 0
Tinted Ovals, “latest ”         12 „ 0 12 6
Cameo Vignettes    12 „ 0 15 0
Cabinet Portraits       1 for 3s. 6d. or 6 „ 0 10 6
Drawing Room Portraits, size 8£ by 6£  0 10 6
„ . „ ,, framed and coloured complete  110
The “Cheap ” Vignette Portrait, finished in Crayons, and best gold
frame    ...   complete 2 2 0
Locket Portraits    ...    ... each 0 2 6
„ ,>, coloured   ...   ... from 0 3 6
Family Groups, Wedding and Croquet Parties, Invalids and others,
can be Photographed at their own residences, Terms, from £2 2s.
Extract from a Critique in the Photographic Hews, November 22nd, 1872.
“Mr. W. H. Gilbert Tate, of 45, Cheapside, exhibits a frame of cards con¬
taining some well known portraits, all admirably rendered, rich, brilliant,
delicate, skilfully arranged; there are no finer cards in the Exhibition.”
Established in Cornhill, 1862.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6 i., First Series.
EAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence,
dited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &o., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E.y respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &o., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
£1 REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
JL O) AN exposure
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota). '
London : E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
VOJ.UJVIE FIVE-. JHUJVIBEF( THREE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 17th, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Goeresfondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by1 the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of u The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street/
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—-Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Gary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. O. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, mcluding use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW CONTINENTAL
SPIRITUAL PERIODICALS BY M. AKSAKOF.
Mr. H. Schlarbaum, of the U.S. service, a talented
and devoted Spiritualist, by whose influence Hudson
Tuttle’s Arcana of Nature was translated and published
in German at Leipzig, sends to the JReligio-Philoso-
'phical Journal of June 20th the following translation
of a letter written to Mr. A. J. Davis, by M. Aksahof, of
Russia, in regard to his labours in the cause of
Spiritualism in Europe. M. Aksakof occupies a high
position of honour and trust at the Court of St. Peters¬
burg, and with all his multitudinous official cares, has
imposed on himself the task of introducing Spiritualism
in the form of good literature into France and Germany,
and thereby into Russia. The following extract from
his letter will be of interest :■—
I will tell you in a few words the results of my
foreign travelling. It was undertaken for the follow¬
ing objects : 1st, to cure my health, at Mariabrun, near
Munich; 2nd, to fulfil a mission given me by the
Russian Government respecting alcoholic drink and its
abuse in Germany, France, and England; 3rd, to in¬
form myself respecting Spiritualism in these countries.
My researches on the question of intemperance have
not been without fruits. The most difficult thing was
to become familiar with the quite novel field of ob¬
servation. After this was overcome, I obtained a
quantity of information, which will give me work for
several years yet. . . .,
Respecting Spiritualism, I have news to give you,
for my research has been crowned by unexpected
success: I returned to Russia the founder of two
journals, the one in German, which I publish in
Leipzig, under the title of Psychic Studies, the other
French, which will be published in Paris, by Dr.
Puel, under the title of Review of Experimental Psy¬
chology. Let me state how all this happened. Re¬
turning to Leipzig after an interval of ten years,. I
observed that Mr. Wagner, my publisher, was entirely
indifferent to the cause which I advocated with so much
devotion ; he advised me to suspend the publication of
the BibliotheJc. At the same time I made the acquaint¬
ance, at Leipzig, of Mr. Mutze, the co-editor and
printer of the review, Spiritists-Rationalistic Journal
(Zeitschrift), and he advised me to use my powers, my
means, and Mr. Wittig for united effort, and thought I
would do more good with a weekly periodical than
with voluminous books. In order to see the other
editor of that review, I had to travel to Tyrol. I
found him quite willing to labour with me. I did not
clearly see how this publishing under several heads
would turn out, but fate itself indicated the way. In
consequence of financial difficulties, Mr. Mutze was
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 17, 1874.
desirous of stopping all further sacrifices with the re¬
view, which had therefore to cease in 1871. In this
way Mr. Mutze is no longer engaged with it, and can
undertake the publication of my own paper. Psychic
Studies, after the programme which I had prepared a
long time ago with the hope of issuing it in Russia—
which hope, after mature reflection, I gave up. In
this way I have given continued occupation to Mr.
Wittig, whom I made secretary, and removed him from
Breslau to Leipzig, at the very centre of our operations.
Here is a new opening for him. We have printed the
prospectus with an edition of 14,000, one thousand of
which Mr. Mutze will send you for distribution amongst
German readers.
Our first number will soon be out. But this is not
all. I shall go on by-and-by to publish the Bibliothelc
at Mr. Mutze’s. The papers of the Dialectical Society,
and Mr. Owen’s Debatable Land are already translated.
Besides this I bought back from Mr. Wagner the rights
I had given to Mr. Wittig on all my editions, and
which he had sold to him. Re-established in this
peculiar way in the possession of my editions, I have
transferred them to Mr. Mutze. His love for our
cause is proven by his past sacrifices over his journal,
and by those which he is incurring for mine. We
equally share the printing expenses of the journal; its
editorial department is mine.
When in Germany I went to Wurtzhurg to see Pro¬
fessor Hoffman; when in Switzerland to Berne to see
Professor Perty, and finally after exchanging several
letters I saw Professor Pichte in Zurich. All have ex¬
pressed their deep interest in the publications which I
had in view.
The Prench journal has another history. A Russian
gentleman had desired me to establish and manage a
Prench paper devoted to Spiritualism. He was willing
to furnish the means for starting such a publication.
He wanted it published under my name, while I de¬
sired to find as its editor a man of science—an idea
which seemed not to be practicable. But here in Paris
I found, in the person of Mr. Puel, a doctor of medicine,
a mesmerist and Spiritualist, who is willing to give his
name, time, and labours to the proposed publication
and all at the risk of his scientific reputation, and
perhaps even the loss of his clients. The first number
will be out in January. The Prench Review is entirely
conceived in the spirit and on the plan of the German
one. Dr. Puel is chief editor, while I manage the de¬
partment of Anglo-American Spiritualism, which will
constitute two-thirds of each issue.
When in London I entered for the first time in my
life the actual sanctuaries of Spiritualism. Here I
knew what I had to see, to do, and where to go. The
people principally interested me. I made the acquaint¬
ance of Messrs. Crookes, Yarley, Wallace, Drs. Gully,
Sexton, Speer, Mrs. Leod, Mr. Richardson, of Mel¬
bourne; of Messrs. Cox, Wilkinson, Jencken (Kate
Pox’s husband), S. C. Hall, Coleman, Shorter, Burns,
Harrison, Beattie (whom I went to see at Bristol). I
attended the lectures of Mrs. Tappan, Mr. Morse, Rev.
Young, and seventeen private and public seances.
Manx copies of the Glasgow News of June 25th, have
been sent us, containing the most abusive article against Spirit¬
ualism that' we have seen of late. The behaviour of
leading journals like the Times and Telegraph, which sent
their correspondents some time since to investigate the matter,
is very different, and scurrility like that now under notice is for
the most part confined to ill-informed provincial journals.'
NOTES ON CHURCH OF ENGLAND DOCTRINES.
NO. III.
BY ANONYMOUS CRITICS.*
Perhaps the leading and most important doctrine of
your Church is that of the Atonement; it is also one of
the most incomprehensible and mysterious. We, there¬
fore, commence our teachings with its consideration.
The difficulties attaching to this doctrine are well
understood by your thoughtful divines, and they have
sought to evade them by giving to the word “ atone¬
ment” a signification which it will, doubtless, bear—
viz., that of reconciliation or “ at-one-ment ’’^with God.
This plea, however, is disingenuous, for the real
meaning of a word, whatever may be its derivation or its
true significance, must always be that which it conveys
to the minds of its hearers, and the doctrine of the
atonement as commonly understood, and as preached
from your pulpits is emphatically this—that Christ, the
Son of God, presented Himself as a sacrifice without
spot to the Eternal Father, for the purpose of satisfying
the demands of the Divine Justice, thus to enable
sinners to plead His sufferings and death as a full and
sufficient atonement for their sins.
It is easy to trace the sources ’whence such a doc¬
trine is derived. The early disciples and historians of
Christ were Jews, and their minds were imbued with
the sacrificial requirements of the Mosaic law; believing
their Lord to be the long-hoped-for Messiah, they were
naturally unable to see in His sufferings and the shed¬
ding of His blood aught else but a “sacrifice for sin.”
As belief in His divinity became intensified, so did
the merits of this great sacrifice assume an ever-
increasing importance, until at last a mere faith in the
efficacy of Christ’s blood became practically of more
importance than a due performance of the duties He
inculcated, and which were decried as being, at their
best, worthless as a means of salvation.
The doctrine assumes:—
1st. That sin having entered the world through the
weakness of Adam, the justice of God demanded the
punishment of the whole human race.
2ndly. That One Person of a Divine Council, actuated
by compassion, himself offered to bear all the penalty
that was to be exacted; that this offer was accepted,
and that the sufferings and death of Christ followed.
3rd. That those who faithfully believe in the efficacy
of this act of Atonement, are henceforth justified and
redeemed, but the unbelieving are the more effectually
and hopelessly condemned.
It may be said that we are here setting forth an
imaginary doctrine for the purpose of easily refuting it,
and manifesting its utter unworthiness. We altogether
deny this, and assert that the above is a fair statement
of the theory and facts involved in the doctrine of the
Atonement, as taught hy your Church, and fully be¬
lieved by the great mass of Christians.
It may well be that a large section of the more
highly cultivated classes may perceive that such a doc¬
trine can have no solid basis, but it is not for these that
we write.
We will now examine in detail its assumptions—1st,
that sin having entered the world through the weakness
of Adam, the justice of God demanded the punishment
of the whole human race.
Herein is contained the origin of the doctrine, and
* Given through the mediumship of a gentleman who does not wish his
name to he published.
July 17, 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
here at the very first step of our investigation shall we
find a grave error, viz., “ that sin entered into the
world through the weakness of Adam.”
It is true that you have for your creed the authority
of your scriptures, but if what you there read clearly
represents the Almighty in an unworthy light, you are
hound in reason to reject it.
We say “ bound in reason,” because reason is the
guide which alone enables you to distinguish between
right and wrong, and if you decline to use it, you be¬
come, whatever may be your motive, no better than an
imbecile.
In this instance you have undoubtedly been led into
grievous error by a too ready acceptance of the Mosaic
books as containing an infallible record of these events.
The story which they present to you is concisely as
follows:—
God having created the world, placed therein two
beings, fashioned in His own image, Adam, and Eve
his wife. They were ignorant of “ good and evil,”
and by nature innocent.
Satan, the “ Prince of Evil,” is however determined
to frustrate the beneficent intentions of the Creator,
and by the simple device of a lie, utterly and for ever
mars His perfect work. Man falls, sin enters into the
world, and the Almighty, on no further grounds, con¬
demns the countless myriads of future generations to a
hopeless, albeit undeserved doom.
Surely such an a'ccount of the origin of sin bears its
own refutation on the face of it.
Consider what such a story involves.
Istly. That God created beings with the intention
that they should be innocent and happy, but that His
handiwork, when tested, is found to be faulty in ma¬
terial, and unfitted for the purposes for which it was
intended.
2ndly. That God withheld from Adam and Eve the
knowledge of good and evil, and yet enjoined upon
them “ obedience ” under a mysterious penalty of
“ death,” which, as death had not yet entered into the
World, could have conveyed to their minds no definite
idea.
3rdly. God leaves these unfortunates exposed to the
insidious temptations of Satan, knowing, as He must
have known, that they would inevitably succumb.
4thly. When the falibis accomplished the Almighty
casts upon Adam the responsibility of the disaster which
He must have foreseen, and which it was certainly
within His power to have prevented, and not content
with punishing him for his disobedience curses the
earth which He had made, and extends the conse¬
quences of Adam’s sin to all the unborn generations of
men.
Such is the childish and irrational story which you
learn from your scriptures. We will waste no further
words upon it.
Me. John Davidson has resigned office as secretary to
the Liverpool Psychological Society, because he will shortly
leave England. Mr. Edward Hope has been elected in his stead.
Caelyle says :—“ We know not what we are any more
than what we shall be. It is a high, solemn, almost awful
thought for every individual man that his earthly influence,
which has had a commencement, will never, through all ages,
were he the meanest of us, have an end.”
Several letters have been received too late for publication
this week; one is from the Yicar of Holy Trinity, Folkestone,
and another from Mr. Lord of Sowerby Bridge. The latter
should send a copy of his letter to Council of the National
Association.
MATERIALISATION MANIFESTATIONS IN
INDIANA.
Me. A. H. Suhmees sends a letter to the Terre Haute
Express in regard to the the mediumship of Mrs. Anna
Stewart, of Terre Haute. From this letter we select
the following passages, showing that the “ materialisa¬
tions ” that have called forth so much controversy
among Spiritualists, and the advocates of f Psychic
Force” in England have been paralleled, if not more
than paralleled in America. Mr. Summers’ report
though not as exact and minute as could be desired,
carries internal evidence of the reality of the manifes¬
tations. Similar manifestations are now so common in
the United States that minutice are too often dispensed
with, as if the writer took it for granted that his
readers already knew something of the subject, and
were not utterly sceptical.
Dr. Allen Pence, of this city, says these things (Spiritual
manifestations) are true; says he can prove it, and will, to
any reasonable person who will come and investigate the
evidence which he will give. I came 130 miles, not to get the
five hundred dollars which the doctor offers to any person
who will detect the slightest fraud in any way connected with
the phenomena, nor the thousand dollars which he proposes
to pay to any one who will produce the same phenomena as
are produced through Mrs. Anna Stewart’s mediumship, but
to learn if possible the answer to the question at the beginning
of this article, “ If a man die, shall he live again ?”
I have attended some of Mrs. Stewart’s seances. I have, at
five of these seances, tied a three-eighth-inch rope tightly
around her waist, with a hard square knot, and a succession of
the same kind of knots as close as they could be tied, making
a piece of knotted rope six inches long, from her waist, then
with the ends of the rope put through two holes in the side of
the cabinet have tied them as tightly on the outside as possible,
with five or six hard knots after the last knot on the inside
drawn closely to the side of the cabinet, the medium occupying
a chair inside. The doors being closed, after waiting a few
minutes, all in the room could see faces and hands at the
aperture in the middle door, and so distinctly as to distinguish
the features, and we could hear voices there quite different
from the medium’s voice. We could also see the door of the
cabinet opened by what are claimed to be materialised spirit
forms, usually dressed in white, who walk out into the room,
being plainly visible to all, from head to foot, one at a time,
and all differing from the medium and from each other, in
size, some of whom would touch persons in the room, move
benches, chairs, &c.
Saturday evening, May 16, after I had tied the medium as
above described, forms came out of the cabinet, dressed in
white, leaving the door open so that we could see the medium
at the same time sitting in the cabinet and tied as I had left
her. The spirit would stay out of the cabinet eight or ten
seconds and return. This was repeated eight or more times.
Saturday evening, the spirit of an old lady came out of the
cabinet dressed in white, and with a white cap on. While the
spirit was out in the room and visible to all, we could see the
medium through the open door, sitting tied as on previous
evenings. The spirit walked to a table about six feet from
the cabinet and took a small flower-pot therefrom, holding it
above her head so that we could see what she took, and then
carried it into the cabinet, and in a few minutes returned it to
the table.
The cabinet is a plain box 5 ft. by 3 ft., and eight feet high, en¬
tirely separated and away from the walls of the room, and
standing on blocks eight inches from the floor. The front is
composed of doors, so that when open the entire inside of the
cabinet is exposed to view. And all so arranged as to afford
an easy opportunity to examine the entire inside and outside
of the cabinet, which being fastened together with screws, any¬
one who chooses is at liberty to take it to pieces, and examine
each piece separately. •
At the close of each seance I have always found the medium
tied exactly as I tied her or saw her tied. The medium as
well as her husband, and Dr.JPence, who encourage people, to
come and investigate, are very kind, accommodating, and un¬
selfish in their efforts to bring these facts to the minds of the
people. No charge is ever made for admission to the seances
and witnessing the phenomena, and it requires a person of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 17, 1874.
J8
very keen perceptive faculties to detect the motives of Mrs.
Stewart, her husband, or Dr. Pence, in gulling honest people
day after day, and year after year.
Materialists, there are some facts in Terre Haute that it
would well become you to investigate. After the change which
we call death, I do not know whether we shall enjoy a conscious,
happy life, or not, but I am strongly inclined to think we shall;
and I have found my best reasons for thinking so at Mrs.
Stewart’s seance, room. A. H. Summers.
Terre Haute, Indiana.
Prom the experience gained in England it is easy to
see how the writer of the above has sought to describe
something wonderful, rather than to minutely give
the rigid truth. He uses the word “ size f only in de¬
scribing the difference between the spirits and the
medium; the divergences of stature and size have
been most noted in England, and his specifying that at
Terre Haute they differ in size intimates that therein
is the chief, point of dissimilarity. Sometimes they
saw the medium and spirit together, but clearly not
always, or wherefore the tying ? The amount of light
is not stated, nor the distinctness with which the features
of the medium were seen. The time is probably ap¬
proaching when the medium and these forms will be
seen in open circle, and would probably have arrived
ere this in England, but for the annoyances which
have been inflicted upon the mediums.
MES. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY ON UNDEVELOPED
SPIRITS.
The following is a letter written by Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory to a friend who had begun to develope writing
mediumship, and had received bad messages from the
spirits:—
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Mr deak ,—This moment your letters dated
September 29th and October the 1st have reached me.
I am very much obliged to you for them, as I am quite
sure they were conscientiously and kindly intended,
and, may I add, feeling as you do, it was your duty to
endeavour to arrest any one from continuing to walk
on what you consider a mistaken path. Still, to
me it is evident you write in utter ignorance of
what Spiritualism truly is. In the first place, I be¬
lieve you hold that, with the canon of Scripture all
direct inspiration has ceased, whereas we Spiritualists
feel that GOD is the same yesterday, to-day, and for
ever, and that He is as near us now, and as ready to
communicate with His dear children as He ever was
in the days of old. Your own experience of attracting
evil spirits proves nothing. You seemingly have ven¬
tured into the open door of another sphere, but only
far enough to be frightened, and then, without showing
either courage or perseverance, have turned your back,
crying, “It is all the Devil.”
Spiritualism is a science with which we are dealing—
a science which is yet in its infancy. Laws must be
discovered and applied, conditions studied and regulated
before much satisfaction can be attained. The general
experience of patient investigators after knowledge goes
to corroborate our great poet:—
How pure of heart, how sound in head,
With what Divine affections bold,
Should be the man whose thoughts would hold
Communion with the dead.
In other words, those who aspire to spiritual intercourse
must remember, they, too, are spirits, and that, as in
this world they find it difficult to commune with those
far above them in social rank and education, so it is in
the next stage of existence. “ Like attracts like,”
but “ difficult” is not “ impossiblelet the aspirant to
Spiritualism cultivate and develope the Divine element
of “Love” towards all spirits, whether in the flesh or
out of it. He will soon begin to find out that there are
two sides to the question of Spiritualism. That many
such aspirants have become better men and better
women is a fact that can as easily be ascertained as any
other fact in this remarkable age. Spiritualism is a
modern shining light which will ultimately draw all
men and women nearer to the source—nearer to GOD.
Dear Mrs.-: , I have no more time to write to-day,
but perhaps I have written enough to make you pause
before you condemn a great truth you seem so igno¬
rantly to have entered into. You must pardon me for
writing my thoughts so plainly on the subject. If you
have any more hesitation as to the expediency of
leaving Spiritualism alone, do so. The time has not
yet come for you to study it; but let me caution you to
beware of opposing the angels sent from GOD on their
mission to elevate man.—Your sincere friend,
Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
A SEANCE WITH MISS SHOWERS..
BY SIR CHARLES ISHAM, BART.
Having been requested by friends to publish some rough
notes I made during the seance at the house of Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory, on the evening of June 18th, I give them
much as they were taken, but am desirous to commence with
the experience of a lady who accompanied me, and who has
written the following expressly for The Spiritualist:—
Florence, who had seemed very willing to receive all the
other members of the circle, exclaimed in a distressed and
startled tone, when I advanced towards her: “ Not so near !
Not so near ! ” and then, as if in pain, she added, “ There is
something comes from her that hurts me—I feel melting away
—I must go back to my medium, to get more power from my
medium.”
These last sentences were uttered in very feeble, faltering
tones, and her appearance gave the impression of one who
was fainting away, or sinking away. The face was ghastly
pale, and the eyes turned upwards, so that the white only wa%
visible. She withdrew behind the curtain, and I returned to
my seat; but in a few moments she reappeared, and I was
shortly afterwards recalled. Mr. Gregory gave me a rose to
present to the spirit. This time I was allowed to come closer,
but my presence still seemed to excite alarm and distress, the
spirit again exclaiming: “ Not too near—not too near.”
She accepted the rose, however, without hesitation, her long
attenuated fingers slowly and feebly closing round the stalk,
as though she had very little muscular power.
She then said in a very languid, plaintive tone, “ I must go
now. I must go now.”
“ Where are you going ?” I enquired.
“ I am going home.”
“ And where is your home ?”
“ In one of the planets.”
“ Which planet ?”
“ I don’t know what they call it. Things are much nicer
there than they are here.”
“ What do you do there ?”
“ I have not very much to do. I spin a great deal.”
“ Who are you with ? Are you with the angels ?”
“I am with other spirits like me.” And then with some
animation—“ I am a spirit. I am not an angel—but (relaps¬
ing into languor) I must go now. I must go now. Lenore is
coming—Lenore is coming;” and so she disappeared behind
the curtain.
I present Florence with a very small piece of sugar candy;
she holds it in her hand for a short time whilst she is talking
to some one ; she then puts it into her mouth and enjoys it.
I offer another piece.Iater ; this she declines. She shows her
feet several times momentarily; they are well formed but very
narrow. She is asked whether her ears are pierced, and
THE SPIRITUALIST.
29
July i7, 1874.
replies they once were but are not now. (Mies Showers wears
earrings.) Mr. Coleman is introduced to Florence, and after
talking proposes to kiss her. This is a liberty she never
' allows, except to ladies : she says “ No ” in a pretty, playful
manner, and drops the curtain in his face for a moment.
The hair of Florence is concealed under the turban. I re¬
quested a small piece ; she replied “ My hair is the colour of
my medium’s, and you would not care for it.” Florence did
not remain long ; said her power was going, and wished us
good night. Peter recommences singing to my cornopean,
the beautiful clear voice of Florence occasionally taking up a
few bars, but the two voices are never heard together.
In ten minutes or so Lenore holds aside the curtain,
smiling, showing her teeth, and looking extremely happy, and
bending in her usual manner, appears very diminutive; she,
however, soon attains an upright position, and is then about two
inches shorter than Florence, who is always very upright, and
is from four to five inches taller than Miss Showers, and
never shows her teeth except for a moment when requested.
There are 18 present, including several strangers. Mrs.
G regory proposes to introduce her visitors. Lenore replies,
“ I don’t know who they are.” “They are my friends.”
“But your friends may be my foes.” I give her a bonbon,
the size of a large currant, and ask her to bite it and tell me
what there is inside. She replies, “ Honey, is it not ?” There
was some sort of liqueur in it, but what 1 cannot say. At my
request she draws her foot over my hand; it is natural and
rather callous underneath, like one which was unaccustomed
to shoes and stockings, and rather cold.
She remarks to Mrs. Boss-Church that there are too many
people present, and she can therefore do nothing, and wishes
they could be turned out. Mrs. Bamsay’s bracelet is put on
her, which gives great satisfaction. Miss Bamsay also lends a
ring. She returns to the medium, when Peter is heard to say,
“ Don’t take too much power, be merciful.” She returns and
says, “Can I come out ?” (she had been standing in the door¬
way). She does so and is measured.
I pass my hand under her veil, and take hold of the hair,
and find amongst it lengths of matted pieces like string. I
remark that it wants combing; she replies, “My hair is
curly and that sort is not combed.”*
She with difficulty is induced to walk round the room, and
insists on all sitting round the table, excepting Mrs. Boss-
Church and Mr. Dunphy who accompany her, and myself
who are told to remain at entrance of dark room. She walks
round behind the visitors, and is five minutes or more on her
progress, stopping and talking to some with her sweet voice,
and touching others. A chair is moved accidentally; this
frightens her very much, she thinks “ everything is tumbling
down,” presently she returns to the entrance, when I cannot
resist saying “ thank you, beautiful Lenore.” She returns the
compliment. Mr. Coleman succeeds in obtaining a kiss,
some one else requestsjthe same, she declines, saying “ that is
too bad, when I kiss one all want to be kissed, it is always so
when a spirit comes into the room.” She objects to my taking
notes, and inquires whether I intend “ to publish,” says she
could have said much better things," but she has been talking
nonsense because she was flirting. Lord Bayleigh approaches,
I request her to tap him on the nose with her bouquet, this
she does lightly, and asks “does it hurt?” She standing
against the entrance, says “ now all stand round me, you, and
you, and you, and all.” She talks, unclasps and returns the
bracelet and ring, wishes us good night and retires. Peter
sings for ten minutes; Miss Showers wakes, and makes her
exit from the dark room, and we'are left to contemplate and
discuss these wondrous phenomena.
"Wheee aee ihe Dead?—Max Adeler, the American
humourist, dedicates his book, Out of the Hurly-Burly, to
“ The Intelligent Compositor,” saying, “ To his habit of per¬
petrating felicitous absurdities I am indebted for ‘ laughter
that is worth a hundred groans.’ It was he who put into type
an article of mine which contained the remark, ‘Filtration is
sometimes accomplished with the assistance of albumen,’ and
transformed it into ‘Flirtation is sometimes accomplished
with the resistance of aldermen.’ It was he who caused me
to misquote the poet’s inquiry, so that I propounded to the
world, the appalling conundrum, ‘ "Where are the dead, the
varnished dead ?’ The kind of talent that is here displayed
deserves profound reverence. It is wonderful and awful;
and thus I offer it a token of my marvelling respect.’ ”
* To those who have only seen pieces that have been taken off, the hair
appears anything hut curly, but in the whole length it is wavy and rather
Curly.
MR. CROOKES ON MATERIALISATIONS.
From “ The Banner of Light ” (July ith).
To 0. L. Ditson, Esq., Albany, N.T., U.S.A;
Deajb Sir,—The quotation given by Mr. Pennell, in
his letter to the Spiritualist, is copied correctly from a
letter which I wrote to him. In reply to your request,
I beg to state that I saw Miss Cook and Katie together
at the same moment, by the light of a phosphorus
lamp, which was quite sufficient to enable me to see
distinctly all I described. The human eye will
naturally take in a wide angle, and thus the two figures
were included in iny field of vision at the same time,
but the light being dim, and the two faces being several
feet apart, I naturally turned the lamp and my eyes al¬
ternately from one to the other, when I desired to bring
either Miss Cook’s or Katie’s face to that portion of my
field of view where vision is most distinct. Since the
occurrence here referred to took place, Katie and Miss
Cook have been seen together by myself and eight other
persons, in my own house, illuminated by the full blaze
of the electric light. On this occasion Miss Cook’s face
was not visible, as her head had to be closely bound up
in a thick shawl, but I specially satisfied myself that she
was there. An attempt to throw the light direct onto her
uncovered face, when entranced, was attended with
serious consequences. You may be interested to hear
that before Katie left I succeeded in taking some very
excellent photographs of her by the electric light.—
Wileiam Crookes.
London, May 28th, 1874.
The Cornhiel Magazine on Spiritualism.—This month
the Cornhill Magazine publishes an article on Spiritualism,
entitled, “ Modern Sorcery,” and to a considerable extent
endorsing the witchcraft explanation of the subject. The
writer admits that Spiritualism is spreading everywhere, and
that it is now not easy to speak against it in society, without
offending somebody present, who has seen manifestations.
The general drift of his argument is that the teachings of
Spiritualism are a low form of materialism, and that
Spiritualism is not a subject that the public is bound to
investigate, any more than other unimportant “isms.” So
be it, if the writer thinks so. If he does not care to know
where he is going to, when a few years hence his body is
placed in the grave, nobody else can be expected to force his
attention to a matter in which he himself is chiefly concerned.
Materialisations in Memphis, TJ. S.—The Banner of
Light (Boston), June 20th, contains the following letter:—
“;Sib,—On the 16th of the present month I was at the seance
of J. H. Mott, Memphis, Mo. I had read and heard much of
the manifestations through him. The circle was composed
of eleven persons—six being from Iowa. Physical manifesta¬
tions, such as raising a small drum above the transom of the
door, beating it when there, throwing it into the circle with
the drumsticks, and other phenomena were done. Then
whsipering was heard, when Mrs. Mott stepped to the aperture
and Colonel Bledsoe, a confederate officer, made his appear¬
ance. The Colonel was seen by us all who had never been
there before, and he spoke to most of us. Next came a Dr.
Reed, who spoke to us. Then a Mr. Hill, husband of a lady
who was present, appeared, and conversed at length with his
wife. Then came my first wife, who gave her name and
showed herself. I stepped to the curtain and there she was,
full form and feature, and addressed me. I requested her to
show herself more plainly, which she did, and said: “I was
a good wife.” To corroborate the test, I will mention that I
received a letter from her some twenty years after she had
passed on, stating that I had two babes in spirit-life, which I
supposed could not be, as one was a miscarriage in our early
marriage life ; but at this seance she said they were both there.
My babe .of eleven months old then showed herself very
plainly, and my wife presented the little one, though not per¬
fectly distinct. Then a Mr. Thatcher’s wife came and con¬
versed with all her family. Mr. Mott is in great demand as a
medium.—E. Sprague.—Hannibal, Mo., May 21st, 1874.”
30
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 17, 1874.
SPIRITUALISM AT HAMPTON COURT.
The clergy appear to be calling attention, to
Spiritualism in all directions. Last week attention
was called in these pages to some hasty remarks on
the subject, made by the Rev. Mr. Yates, of Sand-
gate, at a church in the most fashionable suburb of the
favourite watering place of Folkestone; but this week
we have to quit the sea-side, with its headlands and
billows, for the more historic scene of Hampton Court,
haunted yet, it may be, by the shades of its founders,
Cardinal Wolsey and Henry YIII.
Last Sunday, at the Royal Chapel in Hampton
Court Palace, the Rev. Mr. Woodhouse delivered one
of a series of lectures on the career of Saul, who,
in other words, he described as a perfect gentleman,
who had much outward respect for religion, but not
an atom of the true love of God in his heart. He
told how, in his old age, Saul turned superstitious
over his reverses in life, and how his young men
then informed him where to find a woman who could
raise the dead. Perhaps, said Mr: Woodhouse, this
woman was a sorceress, for there appeared to be some
reality in the sorcery of heathen nations; perhaps she
was an impostor, perhaps both. This, of course, was
very safe ground to take, especially as he did not
define what sorcery was ; thus, if called to account for
his utterances, plenty of loopholes were left for
shifting from one point to another. Saul appeared
to be meddling with Spiritualism, and modern Spirit¬
ualism seemed to Mr. Woodhouse to be “ tampering with
things unlawful.” Yet did not Mr. Woodhouse com¬
mit himself even to this opinion, for further on, in his
sermon, he said emphatically that, at all events,
Spiritualism “ savoured ” of unlawfulness, and there is,
of course, a great difference between a thing actually
being unlawful and merely savouring thereof. He said
that very many people believed in Spiritualism, and that
Spiritualism might not be altogether bad, for it was a pro¬
test and natural reaction against the rampant materialism
of the age; but however good it might be for mate¬
rialists, there was nothing advantageous in it to true
believers. He was rather inclined himself to ascribe it
to imposture, still was not sure it was right to put it all
down to trickery, because that view of the case might
lead people to examine it. The witch might have been
an impostor, for she was frightened when she saw
Samuel, who might have been specially permitted by
God to return to earth on that occasion. At all events
believers did not want spirit voices or spirit hands.
Altogether, the Rev. Mr, Woodhouse did not
commit himself to any very definite opinion about
Spiritualism; he appeared to edge round the sub¬
ject without knowing exactly what it was or how
to deal with it, but his whole sermon was mildly
spiced with a leading idea that orthodox people
had better leave it alone, without any very clear
reason being given why that line of action should be
adopted. It was a much more clever and cautious dis¬
course than that given by Mr. Yates, who in the
simplicity of his heart condemned Spiritualism in a
couple of sentences without apparently possessing any
knowledge of the subject. In the'course of the sermon
Mr. Woodhouse condemned, as we did last week, those
worshippers who attended church, merely because it
is a respectable and conventional thing to do.
Can Mr. Woodhouse inform us why his church offers
up a special prayer for Henry YIII., who is not gene¬
rally' admitted in modern times, to have been an
exemplary man or a model husband ? Henry YIII.
not only had to do with Hampton Court, but founded
Christ’s Church at Oxford University, and a special
prayer is inserted in the ritual used there, thanking
the Almighty for having blessed the earth by the in¬
troduction of that monarch into our midst. There is
nothing in the prayer about his many wives or the way
in which they were murdered.
A SEANCE AT HANOYER-SQUARE ROOMS. .
Last Monday night the Mr. and Mrs. Fay, who arrived in
England a week or two ago from America, gave a seance,
which had been largely advertised in the newspapers, at the
Queen’s Concert Rooms, Hanover-square. There was a large
attendance.
The following is a copy of their printed programme:—
“ The following mysterious manifestations may he expected
at each seance:—The programme will commence with fasten¬
ing Miss Fay’s feet, hands, and neck to solid iron staples, with
strips of cotton cloth, which are sewn with thread, and further
secured with court plaster. While in this helpless condition
a series of bewildering effects will be produced, including
floating extraordinary; the life-like guitar; the mysterious
bell-ringing; the curiously-knotted cloth ; the spirit carpenter
—marvellous nail and flying hammer; the animated violin;
the circular hoop and its extraordinary power; the babes in
paper; the tambourine’s flight; the working scissors; the
mouth-organ in its travels; the great goblet and water mys¬
tery, a puzzle to the scientist; what unseen power plays the
bugle? the great pail'sensation; the self-acting knife,which,
without any discoverable assistance, cuts away the bonds
which have secured Miss Fay during the seance.
“ Part II. The presentation of Miss Annie Fay’s wonderful
dark seance. A committee of ladies and gentlemen may be
appointed by the audience to test the merits of the most thrill¬
ing experimental phenomena ever produced ; the touch of
hands; the aerial flight of many musical instruments; the
harmony of bells, violins, &c. The arrangement of the
seance will be conducted by Col. H. C. Fay (of Ohio), who will
give a brief explanation of the wonderful results of Miss
Fay’s ability; also a description of the experiments during
their progress. The committee selected from the audi¬
ence will take part with Colonel Fay in assisting in the
investigation.”
A simply-constructed, easily examined cabinet stood upon
the platform; it had no top, and ran upon castors at the end
of legs about a foot long. A curtain could be drawn rapidly
down or up the front of it, by means of cords.
Mr. Fay said that the young lady would come upon that
platform single-handed and alone, and under the inspection
of a committee of well-known citizens, remarkable scientific
results would be obtained by the action of some unknown
power. A great feature was the lightning-like rapidity with
which the results would be produced; they would not say
publicly how they believed those results to be caused; they
had their private opinion on the subject, but had the right to
keep it to themselves if they chose. Thus they left the public
to judge all that took place upon its own merits, but the facts
had considerably astonished scientific men. If he spoke of
how he believed the results to be produced, it would cause
a discussion better suited for a lecture-hall than a public
entertainment. Would two well-known gentlemen come up
as a committee to represent the audience, and give their
names and addresses ?
Two of the spectators then mounted the platform. One
announced himself to be Mr. H. Warren Edwards, 5, Edith
Villas, North End-road, S.W.; the other, Mr. P. Ratnavelu
Chetti, 13, Bruton-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Mrs. Fay then entered, and in the full sight of the observers
had her hands firmly tied behind her in a very secure manner,
the committee assisting in the tying and sewing the knots after¬
wards with thread. Two iron screws with eyes at the head,
were then screwed into the back of the cabinet by the com¬
mittee, who tied Mrs. Fay’s hands closely to the lower screw,
and her neck to the upper one with strips of cloth. Mr. Fay
then tied her feet together, passing the end of the rope across
the platform, and giving the end to a gentleman to hold.
The performance then began. Mr. Fay would lower the
curtain for periods of time varying from two seconds in some
cases to a maximum of thirty in others, fifteen seconds being
July 17, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
31
perhaps the average. In these momentary intervals, while
Mrs. Fay was out of sight of the observers, pieces of cloth
would be knotted round her neck, fiddles and tambourines
played, and bells rung, a pail placed in her lap hooked by its
handle round her neck, and other occurrences of a like nature,
the committee examining her hands after each, and certifying
that the knots and screws were all secure as at first.
After a time the observers began to get excited, and to grow
suspicious of the committee. Mr. Edwards then asked some¬
body else to take his place. Several in the audience urged one
gentleman to go up; he did so, and sat for some time watching
behind the cabinet while the results were produced.
The audience again grew clamorous, when Mr. Henry Woods,
of the Times newspaper, rose and said that a few days ago he
had tied Mrs. Fay in every conceivable way at the Crystal
Palace, where she had no cabinet, and the Crystal Palace
managers stated that there had been no preparations in the
room, neither was there any concealed machinery. A curtain
was simply so arranged as to jfiide Mrs. Fay momentarily, He
could detect nothing, and th4 same things took place.'
A gentleman who announced himself to be a stranger and
a traveller, who gave the name of Mr. Ames Van Wart, and
said that he was stopping at Claridge’s Hotel, said that he
should like to examine the fastenings. Mr. Fay accordingly
asked him up to do so.
There were now four critics upon the platform; the power
about Mrs. Fay cut with scissors, in a few seconds, two babies
out of a piece of paper, “ There,” said Mr. Fay, handing them
over to Messrs. Edwards and Chetti, “ are two tender little
infants, one for each member of the committee.”
Next the invisible power proceeded to hammer a nail into a
block of wood in which there had previously been no nail, and
the vigorous blows could be heard.
Here a gentleman in the front seats grew very angry, and
said that “ Mrs. Fay’s hands were driving that nail in—of
course everybody knew that. It must be so; of course it
must. (Laughter.) It was very clever. Did they not all see
that it must be her ?”
Another gentleman remarked that “ nobody denied it,” at
which everybody laughed, and the first speaker grew more
angry than ever. Mr. Fay asked him to join the committee
and examine for himself, and he refused.
There was afterwards a dark seance, twelve ladies and gen¬
tlemen from the audience sitting in a ring on the platform,
holding each other’s hands, including those of Mr. Fay. Mrs.
Fay sat in the middle of the ring, clapping her hands all the
time, to show she was not using them. Instruments then flew
about, the sitters were touched with hands, bells were rung,
and so on. This was uninteresting to all but those on the
platform; many persons in the audience misbehaved them¬
selves, hooting, shouting, and conducting themselves in a
generally disgraceful manner. The cry of “ confederates” was
again raised, and at the request of the audience all the sitters
on the platform were changed, another twelve going up, and
among them Mr. Holman Hunt, painter of The Shadow of
Death. The results were the same, and instruments were
played while both of Mrs. Fay’s hands were held. One of the
sitters said that he was a member of the Oriental Club on the
other side,of Hanover-square; that he had watched the pro¬
ceedings closely all the way through, and to him the results
were inexplicable.
If these public performances are to go on, Mr. Fay had
better abolish the dark seance; it will always be unsatisfac¬
tory, except perhaps to those upon the platform, and be a
scene of uproar. In English audiences there is not that true
geniality and friendliness which is more characteristic of
American gatherings, especially when Spiritualisna is the
subject.
Of Mrs. Fay’s recent seance at the Crystal Palace, the
Morning Advertiser of July 4th says:—
“ Mr. Hood, one of the Crystal Palace directors, having lent
a plain ring to Mr. Fay, who placed it on the medium’s lap, it
was instantly transferred to the lady’s ear. Paper was cut,
the violin played, a nail driven into a piece of board, and a
glass of water emptied in a few seconds, the medium being
perfectly still. A large pail was placed in front of Miss Fay,
and the curtain being raised and dropped instantly, it was
found inverted on her head. An open clasp-knife was placed
upon the lap of the medium, and the spirits requested to cut
the ligatures ; this was done immediately, and the knife
closed and dashed amongst the audience. Mr. Wilkinson, the
general manager of the Crystal Palace, stated that neither
Miss Fay nor any of her friends had been in the room until a
few minutes previous to the commencement of the seance, and
he could vouch for there having been no preparation of the
room, nor was there any apparatus concealed from the sight
of the audience.”
SWEDENBORGIANISM veksus SPIRITUALISM.
BY ST. GEORGE STOCK, B.A., (FEME. COL., OXFORD).
In the west of London, beyond Kensington Gardens, there is
a Swedenborgian or New Jerusalem chapel. Many readers of
The Spiritualist are doubtless acquainted with it. I was
myself a stranger to the place when I entered it on the morn¬
ing of Sunday, June 28th. Almost the first sound that struck
my ears was the announcement that the subject for discussion
at the meeting for Mutual Edification on the following Wed¬
nesday evening would be “ Spiritism, commonly called
Spiritualism.” The minister at this chapel is a Dr. Bayley, a
man whose conversational diction is not unimpeachable,, but
who is evidently of no common abilities. His sermon was
pervaded by a healthy tone of thought—a rare characteristic
of pulpit discourses. Its upshot was that right and wrong
doing brought their own rewards and penalties along with
them, and that the laws of God were the simple rules of
happiness, not made right by being commanded, but com¬
manded because conducive to man’s own welfare. The weak
point in his position was his taking for granted that these
rules of happiness were revealed in the Bible in such a manner
as to save man all trouble in finding them out for himself.
To admit the necessity and duty of inquiry, would be to cut
us adrift from the Bible except as a useful record of the ex¬
perience of a bygone age; and this, as a Swedenborgian, Dr.
Bayley, could not do; for the Swedenborgians make a very
strong point of their adherence to the Bible. But if the
inadequacy of the Bible as a guide to happiness were to his
mind inadmissible, much more would be what, to the un¬
prejudiced judgment must appear an equally undeniable truth,
that many of the Biblical precepts are, for the present age, at
all events, in direct contradiction to right. These remarks I
have made with reference to the part taken by Dr. Bayley in
the “ Meeting for Mutual Edification,” on the evening of Wed¬
nesday, July 1. Before going on to speak of this, however, I
will crave pardon for making a few remarks on the general
attitude of Swedenborgianism towards Spiritualism.
Inasmuch as the Swedenborgians profess to base their
whole system, so far as it differs from orthodoxy, on modern
revelation and spirit communion, it is not open to them
like the members of other sects, to deride the whole thing
as a mere delusion—they have too much glass about their
own house for that; and so they adopt the other line,
and denounce it as diabolical. Why they should
show hostility to the new-comer, instead of being the first to
hail it, a few moments’ reflection suffices to show. Sweden¬
borg’s revelations took place at a time when the world had
still an unshaken belief in the terrible doctrine of eternal
punishment. Accordingly, we find in his system progression
in evil as well as progression in good, and a Source of Evil as
active in its workings as the Source of Good ; and, indeed, if
effects are any measure of causes, more powerful. But the
belief in the eternity of punishment has of late been breaking
up on all sides. A milder age demands a milder creed.
Accordingly, the seers of the present day ignore progression
in evil, and dwell only on progression in good. Evil is to
them a mere negation, nothing more than the absence of
development. Thus we see that the two systems, that of
Swedenborg and that of the Spiritualists of to-day, are in their
root-ideas incompatible. The Spiritualists, indeed, can afford
to praise Swedenborg as having, in some measure, anticipated
their own more perfect revelations: but it is far otherwise
with the Swedenborgians, on whom the Spiritualists have
enough claims of kindred to heighten their animosity, and no
more.
The meeting on Wednesday evening was opened by Dr.
Bayley with prayer. As a text for his discourse he then took
the prohibition, in Deut. xviii., 11, against “ consulters with
familiar spirits, wizards, and necromancers.” After first
pointing out to his audience that the visions of the Scriptural
seers were, for the most part, not revelations of heaven and
hell themselves—the places of final happiness and final
misery—but of the intermediate state, or spirit-world, of
which we hear so much from Swedenborg; he went on to
admit the reality of Spiritualism, maintaining that its harm
arose from its very reality. If, indeed, Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena were mere chicanery, as in some instances they might
THE SEIIUTUALIST.
$2
July 17, 1874.
be, he would not have thought it worth his while to discuss
them. But, believing as he did that Spiritualism was a grave
source of danger, since its practice involved a direct violation
of the express commands of God, he thought it as well that
his audience should be set on their guard by a careful consi¬
deration of the subject that evening. He assured us that it
was from no caprice of authority that it had been forbidden to
men to seek communication with the spirit-world. But, since
more men passed out of the present stage of existence in a state
of evil than in a state of good, there was in consequence a pre¬
ponderance of evil beings in the spirit-world, and these, being
further gone in wickedness than they had been here, and having
enlarged powers of mischief, exercised, whenever they got the
opportunity, a most fatal influence on the inhabitants of earth.
These were the beings who in old times had deluded men into
worshipping them under the titles of various false divinities,
and had instituted the most abominable practices in the holy
name of religion. He alluded, as an instance, to the custom
at Babylon (mentioned by Herodotus) which made it incum¬
bent on every woman to prostitute herself once a-year in the
temple of Yenus. The influence of evil spirits was plentifully
discernible in more recent times, as, for example, in persona¬
tions of the Holy Ghost; and their latest effort to gain
influence over men’s minds was modern Spiritualism. Thus
Spiritualism was one of the many wiles of the power of evil,
and in flagrant opposition to the Word of God. To Sweden-
borgians, indeed, it was no unlocked for thing, since the world
had been warned by the Swedish fseer of the danger that
would arise from lying spirits. He had described the pheno¬
mena of to-day with the minutest particularity, mentioning
even that the influence of enthusiastic spirits causes a trem¬
bling, especially of Jthe left side. Like war, indeed, and other
admitted evils, Spiritualism might have its incidental use,
namely, as a check to the Sadduceeism of the present age ; but
that could afford no justification for its practice, which he
concluded by earnestly exhorting his audience to eschew.
When Dr. Bayley Shad sat down, one of his congregation,
a Mr. Brown, while admitting to the full the lying capabilities
of many spirits, inquired of his pastor how it was that trance-
mediums, like Mr. Morse and Mrs. Tappan, could keep an
audience of 1,500, or 2,000 in breathless attention, while they
gave utterance to the very highest moral teaching.
This difficulty was easily disposed of. Satan could trans¬
form himself into an angel of light. Mr. Bayley was then
drawn on to descant on the insidiousness of the evil beings to
whom he ascribed the phenomena of Spiritualism. For
instance, they pretended an admiration for Swedenborg, but
it was a mere trap. This was clear from the fact that a spirit
declaring himself to be Swedenborg, had confessed that in
earth-life he had made a few “little mistakes,”—had, in fact,
imagined that Jesus was God, and thought too much of the
Bible. Now Swedenborg’s whole creed rested on the Deity of
Christ and the authority of the Bible ; therefore it was evident
that this was a case of gross imposture. The conclusive¬
ness of the reasoning was somewhat impaired by what
afterwards fell from the lips of Dr. Bayley himself. He
reminded his hearers that Swedenborg had set out from the
orthodox creed; and remarked that it was interesting to trace
in his writings how he had gradually sloughed off erroneous
doctrines during his communications with angels. Now, if
Swedenborg, in|the course of thirty years, could correct such
“little mistakes ” as a belief in the Trinity, the Atonement,
and the resurrection of the body, it is hard to see why he
could not have gone a few steps further in the same direction
in a period of two centuries.
Mr. Bayley now dwelt on the tendency of Spiritualism to
connect itself with the doctrine of re-incarnation, the tendency
of which towards a relaxation of moral effort was obvious. If
a man failed to do as well as might have been expected of him
in life once, all that was required was for him to turn up again
and try and do better next time. Another dangerous con¬
sequence of the practice of Spiritualism was, that authority
would certainly be ascribed to the spirits. A party of
Spiritualists had been informed by spirits that half of the
evils of the world arose from ill-assorted marriages; If people
would only let themselves be guided to select their true
Spiritual affinities, the result would be a re-incarnation of the
worthies of old. One of the party, a very respectable man
who had lived happily with his wife for fifteen years, was in¬
duced by these representations to set her aside in favour of his
true spiritual spouse, who, it so happened, was his housemaid.
The match was expected to produce issue in the Apostle Peter.
Great were the anticipations formed with respect to this won¬
derful child, but when the time of delivery came, Peter was a
girl! The wife, it may be imagined, had not quite coincided
in the husband’s views, but he was united once more to his
lawful wife after his unsuccessful experiment. This was one
of many good .stories that were told to the discredit of the
unfortunate Spiritualists. So far Dr. Bayley had everything
his own way; but he was now destined to receive a check.
At the next pause in the proceedings, a stranger to the meet¬
ing (who was afterwards kind enough to give me his name and
address as Mr. Whitley, opposite Palace-gardens), arose, and
with a nervous but still resolute air, informed the meeting that
they had now the gratification of seeing before them a real
live Spiritualist, an intimation which appeared to be received
with satisfaction. The stranger then proceeded, with an
asperity due no doubt to the effectiveness with which Dr.
Bayley had employed the weapon of ridicule against his
creed, to point out certain weaknesses in his opponent’s
argument. Did he find himself in an assembly of Jews,
on whom the law of Moses was binding ? Much had been
said about the Bible, but about the New Testament little or
nothing, and there even seemed a desire to shirk that. By
what method of argument did Dr. Bayley pick out a single
statute from its context as still authoritative ? If he thought
people who resorted to necromancy ought to be put to death,
why did he stop short of endeavouring to have them exe¬
cuted? But, if they were to come to that, what person in the
meeting would escape condemnation under the law of Moses ?
They would all have been put to death long ago. Who cared
now to observe the commandment against eating blood or
wearing a garment of mixed fabric ? Why, even the man who
did not hearken unto the priest (which he seemed to imply
was the most unreasonable injunction of all) was to be put to
death ! Here he was called upon for chapter and verse, and
promptly gave them as Deut. xvii., 12—a reference to which
passage will show that he made an oratorical use of it. But
why, he continued, argue about the law of Moses, when Jesus
Himself, as if to show how entirely it was abrogated, had
ascended the Mount of Transfiguration and held communion
before the eyes of His chosen disciples with the spirit of this
very Moses, its promulgator ? For himself, having failed to
find a refuge from the doubts which oppressed his mind, he
had determined to try if this new thing called Spiritualism
could bring him any light. But he was determined that if
the spirits shirked the New Testament and the name of Jesus,
he at all events would have nothing to say to them. Accord¬
ingly, he sat once a week with the New Testament on the
table for 14 or 15 months, till at length manifestations came,
and he found a creed by which he could live and in which he
would die. He concluded by advising the meeting not to let
themselves be frightened out of investigation by the bugbear
of assumed authority.
This speech somewhat staggered Dr. Bayley. It was clear
that as the teacher of a manly morality he could not bear to
be reckoned among the obstructives. Accordingly, when he
next spoke, he distinctly altered his ground, though without
acknowledging that he had done so. He was not asking
them, he said, to abstain from Spiritualism because the prac¬
tice was forbidden by such and such an authority. On the
contrary, they were to inquire into it, and if they found the
evil resulting from it to outweigh the good, to avoid it. It
was for the purpose of inquiry that they were met together
that evening. As to the stranger’s charge against him of
shirking the New Testament, it was unfounded, since he had
quoted the Lord’s words, who said, “ If they believe not
Moses and the prophets, neither will they believe though one
rose from the dead,” which he understood as a condemnation
of the practice of Spiritualism. Still he must repeat that he
had not denied all good to Spiritualism. He had admitted
that in some cases it might be productive of benefit, but he
pitied the condition of mind of those who could not believe
in a future without it. To such as had a better ground of
assurance it could not but be hazardous.
Not having been present myself on the following Wednes¬
day evening, to which the discussion was, with the approba¬
tion of all, adjourned, I am glad to be able to supplement this
account by an extract from a friend’s letter :—
“ Dr. Bayley read us a great many passages from Swedenborg’s
Heaven and Hell, in which he warns against Spiritualism.
The rest was only a repetition of what you heard. Only one
other gentleman spoke, although after him a dozen stood up
together, and there was such excitement and arguing that Dr.
Bayley was obliged to call order. They were after some time
silenced by the promise of another evening in a fortnight.
But I was going to tell you about the old man that spoke—
such beautiful long white hair and the blackest eyebrows 1
July 17, 1874. THE SPIRITUALIST. 33
such an enthusiastic Spiritualist! I felt quite awed to see this
old man stand with his hands clasped above his head advocating
the cause. He told us that until a live coal had been placed
on his head by Daniel Home without singeing a hair, he had
never believed in miracles; that the coal was then placed in
his wife’s hand without burning her, but when put on the table
set fire to some paper. The manner of this old man reminded
me of Archbishop Trench, he was so earnest; and, until he
told us we could in less than fifty years be carried up to the
moon and back, I liked him.”
MY BENEDICTION.
SITTING to M. Buguet for my photograph, I found on the plate I had
previously chosen and marked for subsequent identification, besides my
own portrait, the figure of & female with hands on my head as if in the act
of blessing.
Crossed hands upon my head: a calm grave face,
Yet all unknown. Say wherefore hast thou come
To greet me in this unfamiliar place,
Leaving the confines of thy shadowy home ?
Why none of those above I loved, and lost,
Whom oft I strain my aching eyes to see—
Why have none such the mystic frontier crossed,
To breathe their old beatitudes on me ?
Strange visitant who, for a moment bless’d.
Then to thy home invisible had flown:
Now on my head those gentle hands are pressed,
A moment later—and I am alone! *
O who may dream what silent influence
Circles for ever round round his path and bedl
Though benedictions touch no earthly sense,
And ear can never hear the spirit-tread 1
Be thy prophetic fcenison fulfilled;
Soft voices, gentle hands their impress leave.
In sceptic breast, the storm of doubt be still’d.
And we who handle, hear, and see, believe 1
June 27. * M. D.
In a second portrait, taken one instant after the first, no form is
visible.
(tarespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
WOKE BOB THE SPIRITS TO DO.
“ I have remembrances of yours, that I have longed long to re-deliver."
—Hamlet.
Sik,—I bave been pleased and edified with the speeches
at the social gathering of “ The Marylebone Association of
Enquirers into Spiritualism,” which took place at the hall in
Church-street, Paddington, London, especially with the ques¬
tions and answers introduced and clearly reported in The
Spiritualist of March 27th, 1874. But I perceive that my
name is introduced and blazoned in the light as the recipient
of a message by direct spirit writing from the immortal John
Watt. The subject involved in that “ Question and Answer ”
referring to me, includes a long term of mental anguish and
physical debility not yet wholly removed ; because, notwith¬
standing my earnest and frequent application to many
quarters I think most likely to succeed, I have not received
the aid for which I hoped. I applied to Mrs. Emma Hardinge,
Miss Georgina Houghton, Miss E. J. Theobald, Mr. W. Howitt,
Mrs. Alfred Watts, Mr. Everitt, Dr. J. M. Gully, Mr. Morell
Theobald, Judge Edmonds, Mr. W. J. Champernowne, and
several others. I sent them reiterated and long-winded
appeals, and most of them—except two, who perhaps did not
receive my letters—responded promptly with a kind word and
reassuring tale; but as wide of the truth as the poles are
asunder ; all confessing not to be test mediums, but referring
me to others,—strangers, that I knew not, and was too nervous
to address. Yet I must confess I was delighted by the
gratuitous offers of spiritual assistance, by the loving-kindness
and .sympathy displayed by spirits to a complete stranger.
Many curious speculations and supernal messages were re¬
ceived by mediums in my' behalf, with apparent wisdom,
beauty, and truthfulness running as under-currents through¬
out. ' But how great the disappointment, when, with all these
fair promises and good intentions, my own weak knowledge
dictated to me the spirit messages were but fabulous, producing
in me irritability from hopes deferred, which I fear must have
been j felt, if not expressed, by the patient recipients of my
-ardent appeals and frequent importunities.
But no longer to appear enigmatical, X will, if permitted,
confess a little; perchance some gifted and sympathetic one
may read these revealings, and be competent to answer me,
so as to completely establish a faith which has become waver¬
ing from a want of the truth.
Some few years ago, a beloved son left me to try his fortune
in the interior of Africa. He remained silent long, and at
last he acknowledged his distaste for writing, and felt ashamed
in the end to renew our correspondence, so that many months
passed in a silence which ended in the following terrible
tragedy. Two friends of his, who were last with him, stated
that he left them suddenly for a season, and was soon after¬
wards found dead in a lonely hut,—
“ Out of humanity’s reach,”
And was then buried in the sands. Being recognised by his
friends, and some reputation having wafted my name in that
direction, he was carried thence to a neighbouring farm, and
deposited (as is the custom where the “ sacred acre ” is not
often met with) in a garden, or outer-court, in the usual form.
But the grief and perplexity arose from the after-tale, inas¬
much as it was represented to me that the state and position
of the body in the hut were indicative of some foul play, and
contrary to natural appearance, but no certain clue to his
actual mode of departure from earth could be ascertained.
And thus I was left, with an aged partner quite blind in con¬
sequence of sorrow, with life in dark shadow, and no sign as
to the true cause of our bereavement. Now, it may be that
the Spiritual friends to whom I have written may, in mercy to
my feelings as to the whole truth, have kept back the grim
shadows of the revealings, and not have told me all, which
has left ** confusion worse confounded,” and given to a gloomy
imagination and an ugly fancy a deeper tinge.
And now, Sir, permit a few “ reflections ” in the shape of
African criticism. The direct writing from the Spirit John
Watt, mentioned in the “ Questions and Answers ” alluded to
above, is near me, and greatly I value it, if genuine, as an
“ other-world ” message. It is short, but loving and promis¬
ing, as most angelic bulletins are, and ran thus—but being
written on the 1st of April, 1871,1 hope nothing treacherous
or deceptive was intended by him :—
“ My dear Brother,—We in spirit-land greet you with a loving welcome,
and will do all we are permitted to aid and bless you. More we would
willingly say, but at present desist, as the power is not very strong.
John Watt.”
And the direct writing is verified by Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, and
Mr. Morell Theobald, their autographs being attached. The
fact of John Watt having been silent towards me since that
seance—although, you perceive, further assistance and bene-
dictions’are promised—has created three black and sad doubts,
namely, (1) that either his memory is treacherous and he has
forgotten, or he is incompetent to fulfil his intentions,
although neither cribbed, cabined, nor confined, like we, poor
circumscribed, incarnated ones; (2) that he is not permitted
to divulge his knowledge ; (3) or, that still possessing both the
remembrance and the power, he reserves them, like others,
from motives of compassion and prudence. But I have ven¬
tured on the novel process of enclosing a short bulletin for
this angelic one in summer land, written last year, and con¬
fided it to your care. Perhaps Mrs. Everitt, or some other
equally gifted one, possessing a connecting link, and being en
rapport, will flash it along the spirit wire, and obtain a full
response from him direct to me in Africa. What have I done
to offend the gods, or John Watt, that he cannot commune
with Cape Town, as well as Hendon, the spheres and the
climate being equally healthy, bright, and propitious?
But although this might be achieved, a terrible bugbear and
drawback to hope, comfort, and expectation with spiritual
novitiates and even adepts, is the fact that “ lying ones ” are
as rife and inveterate above as below; for that prince of
mediums and noble veteran, William Howitt, after many
battles and much opposition, still has to complain, in the
Spiritual Magazine ior January, 1874, page 13, under the head
of “ Impostor Spirits,” of this particular misfortune. He even
refers, it is believed, although with great precaution and
sympathy, to a gentleman in a distant colony,” in some
remarks which the present writer takes home to himself, and
conceives to involve the whole sum and substance of the pre¬
sent communication. Swedenborg, more than a century ago,
in many parts of his wondrous “Arcana,” describes faithfully,
with terrible precision and fulness, the sad dissembling of lying
spirits and devils in freedom: and remarks, in substance, that
they are such awful mimics, copyists, and forgers, that they
can put on the very nature, mind, feature, voice, dress, and
caligraphy of each other, as well as of many of those out of
their sphere, and so completely, that it was impossible (in his
34
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 17* 1874;
day) for shortsighted mortality to know the difference. It is
all very well, and scriptural, and proper, to say “ Try the
spirits,” hut who is competent to sit in judgment? Where is
the court of conscience or court of appeal ? Where the standard
or referee that can indisputably decide ? Where the certainty
that an apparent loving greeting and congratulation come from
a grandmother, sister, or first cousin ; a saint or a sinner—
David or Dick Turpin ? But my sorrowful tale is becoming
endless and wearisome, so let it end abruptly.
W. Ij. Sammons.
Cape Town, South Africa, May 20,1874.
[This letter contained an enclosure addressed to Mr. Everitt, which, we
posted to him. Why does not Mr. Sammons try Mr. Poster’s mediumship,
for recently his spirits told a sitter of an estate which was his by right, and
the statement proved to be true, although neither the medium nor the sitter
knew anything about it till the message came ? If a truthful message were
given about the manner of his son’s death, how could our correspondent
prove its accuracy?—Ed.]
SEANCE "WITH ME, WILLIAMS.
Sib,—Yesterday we had a rather short, but highly remarkable
seance at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street. There was great power,
but the oppressive heat seemed to induce the spirits to con¬
centrate and hasten their manifestations while the force was
active. After some very surprisingly strong movements, the
form of John King appeared several times in the middle of the
table, beautiful and plainly visible to all. John King and
Peter bid us good night, and bn lighting the gas, a heavy chair
was found on the table; So closed this splendid seance. The
hands of the medium were, of course, never released for a
moment, .
London: July 10th, 1874. C. Beimers.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sir,—The overwhelming mass of well attested facts in this
phase of Spiritualism seem to put the comparatively small
amount of doubtful instances quite in the background, and the
discussions now and then arising are chiefly based on the
sometimes strange, and even suspicious appearances of the
impressions. On this point I may offer some observations,
derived from a very interesting sitting with Messrs. Beeve and
Parkes. On this occasion, I got one figure, which looked
exactly like an inferior pencil drawing on cardboard, cut care¬
lessly round the outlines, and produced on the same plate by
a second exposure. In an evening seance, Mr. Parkes was
entranced by a spirit, calling himself “ the Teacher,” and who
appeared on many plates. I asked, how it came that the said
impression looked quite flat, and altogether like a common
drawing. He replied that the quantity of the aura he used
was sometimes not sufficient, and the outlines, in such cases,
appeared instead of solid bodies, simply on a flat surface, more
or less distinct. This explanation appears of much value when
applied to some photographs of the best mediums, where faces
appear flat, while the drapery looks solid. Such perplexing
specimens are to be found in Monsieur Buguet’s productions,
along with the most convincing test conditions as to their
bona fide character. Further experiments will doubtless clear
up these mysteries, and the careful collection of such facts as
quoted are more important than single results, however
striking in themselves. Christian Bhimebs.
[It is merely an assumption that spirits never present drawings to be
photographed; the whole thing is a matter for observation, and not for
preconceived opinions.—Ed.]
MR. COGMAN’S "WORK IN EAST LONDON.
Sir,—I hail with intense delight the kind suggestions you
throw out on behalf of our gifted and aged medium, Mr.
Cogman. It would be quite superfluous on my part to say
that there is not a medium amongst us who is more deserving
of recognition and permanent support than he is. I happen to
know him intimately—consequently know also something of
the way by which he is supported at the East End. I fully
endorse your remark: he has kept open house for some time
past, almost unaided. The very trifling sums received have
not even paid the rent of the rooms, not to mention gas and
fuel in winter. That such a thoroughly devoted medium to
the cause, and one who has made great sacrifices to develope
his mediumship, should be allowed by us to linger on as he is
now doing is, I contend, anything but creditable to the move¬
ment. Let those who have not heard Mr. Cogman go and see,
and hear for themselves, as I have done for twelve months
past. I am sure they will fully endorse my statements.
I never before heard such eloquent and sublime discourses fall
from the lips of mortal man as through Mr. Cogman.
Friends, let not this bright light and pioneer of our
beautiful philosophy linger out an unenviable existence in an
East End atmosphere. He is too great a sensitive, and
far too retiring to come to the front and speak for himself,
so I am in duty bound to plead for him. I feel sure you will do
what you can by your influence and position, and thus let us
dispense a little of the milk of human kindness of a more
permanent character, to one who is so justly deserving of it.
Could not a small hall in the East, or any other end of town
be engaged for Mr. Cogman on Sundays, and thus relieve him
of the responsibility of a large empty dwelling house, the
anxiety of keeping on which is not by any means conducive
to his mediumship ? With the greatest pleasure I will
subscribe five guineas per annum, payable quarterly, for this or
any other plan that may be suggested by you for his benefit.
Will you, Sir, very kindly stimulate a few generous minds in
your columns to co-operate with us. I need not, I think, remark
that we shall be amply repaid by the philosophy of the lofty
minds who influence this medium. My card is enclosed.
July 6th, 1874. Alpha.
[Why does this correspondent not give his name for publication and
announce himself as ready to receive subscriptions ? How Mr. Cogman
has been able to do so much public work in East London with so little
public aid for many years past is a mystery, and plentiful subscriptions
really ought to be sent to him by those who are able and willing to help
good workers. His address is 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, London, E.
His present rooms answer very well for the work he is doing; they are now
well known and it is to be hoped he will not give them up.—Ed,]
SPIRITUAL POETRY.
Sir,—It is often striking to observe (and I think it ought to
be instructive and encouraging), how often when “ orthodox ”
people are really inspired, they rise above their orthodoxy
in a most extraordinary way, and utter sentiments totally at
variance with their ordinary tone of thought. A remark¬
able instance of this has just come under my notice. In
the Christian Evidence Journal for July, 1874, there are a
few verses of poetry, of which I enclose you a copy, hoping
you will reprint them. They are signed with the name
“ Julia 0. B. Dorr,” and are extracted from Scribner's
Monthly:—
SOMEWHERE.
How can I cease to pray for thee ? Somewhere
In God’s great universe thou art to-day.
Can He not reach thee with His tender care ?
Can He not hear me when for thee I pray ?
"What matters it to Him who holds within
The hollow of His hand all worlds, all space,
That thou art done with earthly pain and sin ?
Somewhere within His ken thou hast a place.
Somewhere thou livest, and hast need of Him;
Somewhere thy soul sees higher heights to climb;
And somewhere still there may be valleys dim
That thou must pass to reach the hills sublime.
Then all the more, because thou canst not hear
Poor human words of blessing, will I pray.
O true brave heart, God bless thee, wheresoe’er
In His great universe thou art to-day.
I am quite at a loss to understand on what principle the
Editor of the Christian Evidence Journal (!) admitted such
beautiful Theistic and Spiritualistic teaching. Almost every
line is full of heresy. The whole of Evangelical theology is
ignored !
The most beautiful ideas of our spiritual philosophy, future
progression, the help of loving sympathy through all spheres,
and the universal Fatherhood of God, are expressed in the
simplest and yet most comprehensive manner.
Edwd. T. Bennett.
Betchworth, July 6th, 1874.
MATERIALISED SPIRIT POEMS.
Sir,—I have sent the following remarks to the Medium
newspaper at the request of the editor:—
“As the present controversy in the Medium is likely to
raise the doubts of some of your readers as to the genuineness
of the phenomena regarding Miss Showers, it will give me
much satisfaction should the following notes contribute to
dissipating those doubts.
“ 1st. The face of Florence always appears to be of a differ¬
ent form to that of Miss Showers and Lenore, it is longer, does
not taper so much, and is on the whole less symmetrical.
“ 2nd. The teeth of Florence are never seen, unless she is
requested to show them, and then only momentarily. Those
July 17, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
of Lenore are visible; Mr. Coleman was much struck with
this distinction.
“3rd. The height of the three varies, although I am told
not always in the same degree. I saw them measured several
times, and assisted in doing so, we had not an inch measure,
but Florence appeared at least two inches the tallest, Lenore
coming next in height, and Miss Showers about two inches
shorter, making more than four inches difference. Mr. Dunphy
placed his foot against theirs to ascertain that they stood
fair.
“ 4th. Miss Showers wears earrings. Florence says her ears
were bored but are not now. I did not examine them, neither
those of Lenore, but probably the ears of spirits are never
bored.
“ 5th. The most marked distinction was in the feet. The
first time I saw the foot of Florence it was very singularly
formed, unlike any I ever saw. It was projected from under
the dress several times momentarily, and I should say was
under two inches wide ; on another occasion it appeared fully
developed and natural. The impression which I took in clay
of the right foot of Lenore (see Medium No. 223) is unusually
broad for the length; she could not have moved it to make it
appear broader than it was, as the toes are well defined. The
remainder of the foot is faintly impressed, it is three and a
half inches wide and seven and a half in length/;! have not ob¬
tained measurement of the foot of Miss Showers, but think
that this, with the evidence that has been given by others, is
sufficient to establish the fact that there must be three
indentities.” C. E. Isham.
Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Sib,—There has recently been sent to me a small portion of
a lock cut off the head of the spirit “ Florence Maples.” This
lock was removed by a gentleman who is himself a medium,
and a distinguished contributor to your pages. It is of a dark
colour, a sort of dingy black, dry, full, and devoid Of all
glossiness—in fact, to ordinary observation it has a very wnAair
like appearance. I have, however, submitted it to the searching
gaze of the microscope; the instrument I used was one of
Pelliscber’s with a quarter-inch object glass. I found at once that
the structure of the substance I was surveying was not that of
hair, either human or brutish; it had fln the other hand the
characters of woody-fibre, and beyond the distinction of colour
showed no difference from a thread of tow placed under the
field of the microscope by its side. In short, vulgar tow (dyed
of course), or a closely allied vegetable substance I feel sure it
is. Any microscopist will confirm me in the assertion that
there is no mistaking or confounding one with another—tow
and hair.
Now, I am not wishful to argue at any length, as to how far
the above facts invalidate the genuineness of the spirit-
materialisations produced by Miss Showers. Of course it
would be just as wonderful to create tow as to create hair, but
one would imagine that a spirit possessing such powers, when
he, she, or it set about making a human body, would not
wantonly make it partly vegetable. Certainly, in apology for
such an act on the part of the spirit,! may add that I find the
padding which is largely used for the commoner sort of ladies’
chignons is generally composed of tow, and the spirit may
have wished to produce as close a similitude to some human
model as possible; but then, on the other hand, this tow
padding is intended to be, and in use always is, kept out of
sight; it is not used to imitate any external or pendent lock.
Further elucidation, however, of the whole matter, I must
leave to those who have the opportunity which a personal
acquaintance with Florence Maples may give them.
I have not had the opportunity, of which I should be very
glad, of examining any of the hair of Katie King, and I should
feel much indebted to any of your readers who would, through
you, kindly send me some.
One single hair, if no more could be spared, would be quite
enough for my purpose. M. D., London.
P.S.—Since writing and sending you the aboYe letter, I have had the
good fortune to receive this morning the very thing I was wishing for, viz.,
a lock of Katie King’s ” hair. I have lost no time in submitting it the
microscope. I have pleasure in saying that I find it as unquestionably to be
hair as the head-covering of “Florence Maple’s'' was iow or its congener;
it is rather coarse or strong for a woman’s hair, but not more so, I believe,
than is often the case,
July 1.4th, 1874.
Sir,—There appears to be an attempt made to prove won-
similarity of feature of the spirit-face and form to those of the
medium through whom they are produced. In all cases when
I have seen them there has been a marked similarity, not only
in feature, but even the reproduction or duplication of the
clothes of the medium. On one occasion I was present at one
of Mr. Williams’ dark seances, when John King appeared at
the cabinet door with white muslin drapery hanging to the
ground, holding a light in both hands, occasionally turning
round to rekindle or revive his light, and on each occasion I
noticed the distinct outline of Mr. Williams’ frock-coat and
trousers underneath the white loose drapery. This will be
easily understood, when I explain that John King stood be¬
tween myself and the light he was endeavouring to rekindle,
and the muslin was so transparent as to allow the light to
permeate, but not so the coat and trowsers. I called the
attention of his friend, Mr. Clifford Smith (who was present)
to this, and he distinctly saw what I have described. This
proved to me, that not only was the face duplicated, but even
the clothes. I do not make these remarks to call Mr.
Williams’ honesty in question, for I had myself tied and
sealed him most securely before the seance, and found all
intact when over. There is evidently much in these matters
yet to be explained. N. F. Dawe.
Portman Chambers, Portman-square, London, W.
[Mr. 0. P. B. Alsop, of 46, High Holbom, has told us he has often seen Mr.
Herne’s Katie King under good test conditions, and her face was clearly
the duplicate of that of the medium. "When we have seen Mr. Williams’
John King closely he has been like the medium about the eyes and nose,
but with a larger and paler face; once we saw him without his black
beard; we have held Mr. Williams and seen John King clearly—not
“ dubiously ”—floating above him, so knew there was duplication. Mr.
Guppy once published in the Spiritualist that the materialised faces he
had seen through Mrs. Guppy’s mediumship resembled her in the lines of
the eyes and nose; she has long ceased to sit for these manifestations.
Mrs. Everitt’s John Watt has not been seen, but when he first began to
speak, his voice was like hers, proving the vocal organs to have had the
same material shape as hers. In the faces through Miss Cook’s and Miss
Showers’ mediumship there is much duplication of features. Evidently
the same principles govern all the manifestations. Where do spirits bring
the “ hair ’’ and drapery from ?—Ed.]
THE DIVnUNG BOB.
Sib,—Have you, or any of your many readers, a knowledge
of this mode of communicating with our invisible friends, as
we do not find it noticed in your paper, or the Medium ?
Several persons of my acquaintance, as well as myself, have
tried it, and undoubtedly find a power controlling the rod that
we cannot explain to the satisfaction of our enquiring friends.
Some communications (like those given by table-rapping) are
good, and some bad; they are apparently given by the con¬
trol of good or bad spirits, and generally in no way under, or
from, the action of the minds of the two persons holding the
rod, but sometimes it is found to be so influenced by their
thoughts. Anyway, this mode of communication seems quite
as reliable as table-rapping, and very much quicker and
pleasanter, as the rod points to the alphabet, when under
strong control, as quickly as the words can be written in
longhand.
A friend of mine has favoured me with an account of part
of a seance he attended last Sunday evening; only three
persons were present, and the rod was held by two, the other
writing. The controlling intelligence instructed them to read
the 97th Psalm; this done, it spelt out the following very
beautiful prayer :—
“ Almighty, eternal and everlasting God, we come unto Thee
because we know and feel that Thou art truly and indeed the
God of the living, and not of the dead. We therefore come
unto Thee, knowing that we shall ever live and never die, that
when we put off this mortal life, we do not die, but only change
our outward bodies. But do thou enable us so to live, while
on earth, that when we leave it, we may have so availed our¬
selves of the many privileges we enjoy, that we may have
every reason to be glad and rejoice at the change. Oh, do
Thou be ever with us, and lead us into Thy peace ; may we
ever try to copy Thy virtue and holiness. Amen.”
This truly good prayer my friend thought could not apply to
the disembodied spirit; therefore said, “ But you. have lost
your material body ? ”
Ans. “Yes—but only part.”
Qites. “ Will you tell me what you mean by only part ? ”
Ans. “ The part by which I saw and felt.”
Ques. “ Then the prayer you have given us does not apply to
you now ? ”
Ans. “ No ; it was intended for you.”
Ques. “ Was it you who made the prayer ?”
Ans. “Yes; through you.” (Meaning the two holders of
the rod.)
Ques. “ Do you get instruction from higher spirits to give
to us ?”
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 17, 1874,
Ans. “ Read and study the Bible.” (Pointing to the ninety-
fifth Psalm in the open Bible lying on the table.)
Ques. “ Can you give any directions to a person (named)
going on a journey ?”
Ans. “ Yes. Love and trust God, and pray for His help
and guidance.”
Benediction. V God is great. May He ever watch over you!
Good night.”
The controlling spirit, orjyhatever people will call it, then
left, and another, who also regularly visits this small circle,
then gave some little good advice, in a very peculiar style,
He had been a Quaker when in earth-life, and still retains his
“Yeas” and “Nays.” After this a bad control, who also
regularly comes, and always asks for drink : a warning, truly,
this to the drunkard.
Now, Sir, who of your numerous readers can offer any
explanation? There was certainly no fraud—no deception.
Then what were these controls ? To us there seems but one
conclusion—that they were intelligent beings, invisible to the
persons present. But I must not encroach upon your space
further at present. If you can allow a little space weekly to
this subject I can get several other beautiful prayers given by
the same controlling spirit or agent, for publication. If not
known, I shall be glad to send you, for the information of your
readers, our mode of using the rod. One thing I must say—
it should not be used with levity, or bad influences will have
the greatest power over it. “ Like attracts like” strongly with
the rod, or the table, or, in fact, with trance speaking, and,
probably, materialisations. W. B. Thorn ion.
Barrow-in-Furness, July 7th, 1874.
[Bow was the rod held and used?—Ed.]
REICHENJBACH’S “ DER SENSITIVE MENCH."
Sir,—With reference to the inquiry regarding Beichenhach’s
Der Sensitive Mench, permit me to state that the abstract
referred to by your correspondent appeared in Nos. 48, 49, 50,
61, and 52, of The Zoist, and was made by Mr. A. J. Ellis, the
distinguished philologist. This great work of Beichenbach’s
is in two vols., containing over 1,700 pages. Mr. Ellis con¬
cludes his abstract with the following remarks on the value of
Beichenbach’s researches:—“This concludes a tantalizingly
brief abstract of a most remarkable book, which all mesmerists
who can read German will probably purchase and study. The
utmost that such a short analysis as has been given in these
numbers of The Zoist can hope to effect, is to make the prac¬
tical mesmerist aware generally of the odie polarities of the
human body, and their effect on the pass, and to show him
that however difficult it must ever remain to assign laws to the
mutual action and reaction of two such complicated objects as
human beings, we are not without a beginning of knowledge
on the subject, which, for the present, we must be content to
eke out with careful empirical observations and consequent
rules. To the collection of such empirical laws—'true only,
between narrow, and not always known limits—the attention
of the practical mesmerist should now be carefully directed.
The condition of the art of medicine, in which one agent (the
drug) is inorganic, shows, on the one hand, the great difficulty,
and on the other the partial success which we may hope for
from such a course. Those who have the leisure and the
acquirements to institute experiments like Beichenbach’s, can¬
not do better than imitate his example ; and let us hope that
he will long be preserved to us to pursue his ingenious, scien¬
tific, and most valuable researches on a subject with which his
name is imperishably connected.”
In Nos. 42, 43, and 44 of The Zoist, the late Professor,
William Gregory, issued an able translation of Beichenbach’s
Popular Letters on the Odic Force, which are well worth the
attention of those desiring an accurate notion of the nature of
od and sensitiveness. J. G.
Edinburgh, June 28th, 1874.
Somnambulism.—The Northampton Mercury says:—“ A
somnambulist feat has caused • some excitement in Tarryton.
Mrs. Navans, the wife of a well-known manufacturer, awaken¬
ing, found her liege lord absent from her side. As he was
known to be given to walking in his sleep, she raised an
alarm, and search being made by the two sons, the missing
husband was found up to his neck in water in a disused
cistern, and clinging to a cross-bar for support. He was very
much exhausted. To get in that precarious condition he had
walked 310 feet on a ledge of wood but two inches wide, cover¬
ing the top of a grape arbour that ran from the back of the
house to the barn. Although he had safely accomplished the
feat, on reaching the end of the structure at which was the
cistern, he had fallen off, and the covering of the cistern being
much decayed, was received into the water. The shock natu¬
rally awoke him.”
A Sham Ghost in Westminster.—Frederick Gruninon,
a labourer, was charged before Mr. Cooke, last Saturday week,
at Westminster Police-court, with being found in the burial
ground of Christ Church, Westminster, for an unlawful pur¬
pose.' The Bev. H. Elliott Fox, incumbent, said he knew
nothing of the present charge, but for some nights past large
crowds had collected believing that an apparition was in the
habit of appearing nightly. His congregation had been greatly
annoyed by it, especially on last Sunday evening. It was an
exceedingly- foolish thing, but he did not wish to press the
matter harshly. A police-constable said—Last night about
a quarter-past twelve he was told that two men had got over
the churchyard rails of Christ Church for the purpose of
frightening the people assembled outside. He went to the
corner and saw the prisoner running across the churchyard
with a white sheet over his head, and some of the people
nearly fainted, while others laughed. The prisoner fell as he
ran, and witness caught hold of him. He said he had only
got over there “ for a lark.” On Sunday night there were
300 people, and on Monday night a large piece of white
paper was fastened to a tree representing a man, and 5,000 or
6,000 people assembled to see this ghost. The prisoner now
said he got over to seethe ghost, and a man put the sheet over
his head. Mr. Cooke said it was very disgraceful and foolish
conduct, and he was only astonished that people should be¬
lieve in such things. He bound the prisoner over in £5 for
six months’ good behaviour.
Spiritualism in Cape Town.—In the course of a letter
to us from Mr. W. L. Sammons, of Cape Town, South Africa,
the following passage occurs :—“ Facts that sometimes arise,
pass by, as it were, stillborn, and are immediately forgotten.
I can vouch that a month or two ago, two ladies, living in the
suburbs, both woke up on the same night, at the same time,
and saw the spirit of their mother, who spoke to them in
separate rooms, in her familiar voice, manner, and dress, then
as suddenly retired. By the next mail a paper came announ¬
cing the death to have taken place exactly at the period the
spirit addressed her daughters. At present seances and asso¬
ciations we have none, although Bishop Colenso by his harsh
doubts in the Leeds Express (copied in Cape papers), has
set the spiritual ball rolling, so that it may soon overcome
his Algebra, and perhaps smother his version of the Pentateuch.
Astronomical Speculations.—The following paragraph
is quoted from the Dover Standard of July 4th, but Mrs.
Tappan mooted the same idea months ago in one of her trance
addresses, as published in these pages. When and where was the
speculation first put on record publicly ? “ Signalling between
the earth and the planet Venus is a suggestion made in all good
faith by a French astronomer, M. Charles Cros, who considers
the coming transit of Venus to be a good opportunity for
ascertaining whether there are inhabitants on the planet, and,
if so, entering into relations with them. He says :—It is possible
that Venus is inhabited; that amongst its inhabitants are
astronomers; that the latter judge the passage of their planet
across the solar disc to be an object to excite our curiosity;
finally, it is possible that these savans will strive in some way
to make signals to us at the precise moment when they might
suppose that many telescopes might be levelled at their
planet.’ ”
INSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calamities.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person a (theoretically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectis of the
BAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSUBANCE COMPANY,
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.O.
or to
MR. THOMAS ELY TON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW
LONDON, E.
lyf OHAMMEU and MOHAMMEDANISM: Lectures
-LYL delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain in February and
March, 1874. By R. BOS WORTH SMITH, M. A. Crown 8vo., 6s.
. “A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published.”—Academy.
“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicial
reasoning, and eloquent exposition
July 17, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Pilz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street, Grosyenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.l)., Hill-side, Streatham.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenoken, H. D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C.
Bamsay, Mrs., 46, Branston-square, W.
Boss-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, CoMlle-road, Kensingston-
park, W.
Senior, Mrs. H., Glassdrummond, Kilkeel, Co Down, Ireland.
Smith, Martin B, Heathlands, 'Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Eev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Bichard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, 'Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Bobert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, ifi.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourhe-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
jsham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lewis, Charles Mansel, J.P., United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B,, 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-bill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S, 14, Burnley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Bogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road, S.E.
•Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood. . ‘
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell; Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, B. M,, M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
' Miss. Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres~
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow., E.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Eussie, Nieder Walluf on the Bhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobifz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Biko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive' Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Bue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq.. Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Fsq., 96, Bussell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 62. Bue de Borne, Paris.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, M.D., Australia.
M. Leymarie, M.D., 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Dr. G. 0. Wittig, Leipsio.
ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the OREAT. AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIBV0YANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-
street, Portman-square, London, W.
R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMEBIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.--Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Bussell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMEBISM AND CL AIB V 0 Y AN OE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Gampden-hill, Kensington.
R. W. Gr. SCORE Y, Medical Mesmebist and
Bubbbr, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldha'^k-roid, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
BUBBEB, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
‘ Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
R. J. HUMBY, MEDICAL GALYANIST, MAG-
NETIST, and HEALING MEDIUM attends patients by appoint¬
ment only, at 44, Museum-street, Oxford-street, or at the patient’s residences.
Testimonials, &c. The charge of an invalid could be undertaken. Address
4, CotiageGrove, Stockwell, S.W.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. JACKSON’S Table dHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
WANTED by a Married Couple (Spiritualists), with a
little girl, for a permanency, a small HOUSE, or part of a house
(unfurnished), to consist of bedroom, two parlours, and a kitchen. Must
be in good repair, and healthily situated. Vicinity of Highbury, Dalston,
or Hackney Stations (North London Railway), preferred. Bent, inclusive
of all taxes, must be moderate. Letters to be addressed to “Advertiser,”
care of Thos. Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to the
.*?: PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
All applications for membership to be made by letter to the Editor,
Office of the Pioneer of Progress, 4, Kingsgate-street, High Holborn,
London, W.O. -• . '   .
GENTLEMAN who is a Spiritualist, and possesses
great healing power, residing in a healthy locality amongst the
Derbyshire hills, having undertaken the charge of a gentleman suffering
from sun stroke, desires to meet with another patient somewhat similarly
affected. Terms moderate. For further particulars apply to “H” care of
Mr. F. A. Binney, Solicitor, 22, St. Anns-squar’e, Manchester.
BUGUET begs to aunoance to bis country patrons
that carte de visits portraits are taken’at 33, Baker-street, Portman-
square, during his stay in London, for the reproduction of deceased friends
or relatives. Price, with portrait of the sitter, 30s.
mo THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
i to William Howitt's Letter on the British National Association
of Spirit a a lists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Published by E. W.
Allen, Ava MarK-lane. Price One Penny.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. j By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 17, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because -within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock) Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. ‘T.he Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. VJ. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
■ “Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Sohcitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josi'ah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are,to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
.always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the'sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near. -
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No," and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Wbo is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of Other forms Of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beaeees fob 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. . Vice-President.—'Utv. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. WilliaimMeredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. B. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Biece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEB PLACE; .PAEK BOAD, BEGENT’S PAEK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
"NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium)’.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, OctoberToth, 1874.
He has a few vacant dates for September next; early application is
necessary.
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.'
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MB. J. J. MOESE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,"
Old Ford, Bow, E.
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Bue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
’T> EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JL\j fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Eue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holbom, in the Parish of StAndrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.C,
