Eegisteked as a Newspaper.
{lIjc (SKtnesf mnud^b' billj S^irdmtlism hx gnlahr.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. xoio, Seventh-street.
No. 246.——(Vol. X.—No. 19.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
oroments.
War   ...     217
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Form Mani¬
festations—Attempts to Explain their Nature—Theo¬
ries Relating to Form Manifestations—The Work of
the Research Committee—The Ultimate Constitution
of Matter—The Burning Influence Appertaining to
Certain Spirits—Miscellaneous Problems  217
ReviewHarriet Martineau’s Autobiography. By Maria
Weston Chapman    ...  220
Writing Mediumship Considered by a Committee of the
House of Commons    222
The National Association of Spiritualists .-—Meeting of the
Council ... ...        222
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Remarkable
Personal Psychological Experiences—The Obsession
of a Child—Drawing and Clairvoyant Powers—Pre¬
vision—Forewarning of Death—The Supposed Pains
of the Dying—A Vision Produced by the Will-Power
of a Mesmerist—Psychological Impressions—Another
Case of Prevision—Information about the Future—
Clairaudience—Change of Character in the Spirit
World—A Vision—A Prophetic Dream—Was it a
Psychological Forewarning ?—Circumstances Con¬
nected with the Death of Horace Greeley—Hereditary
Characteristics   ... ... ...  223
Canon Gilbert on Spiritualism  ... ... ... 227
Correspondence:—Spectres of Animals    227
Another Haunted House    228
Poetry:—Desolation—Sweet Pain—A Spring Flower Song 228
Paragraphs:—Spiritual Phenomena in Durham Cpunty,
219 ; The Facts True, 219 ; Spiritual Phenomena in
Newcastle, 222; Mr. Peebles in Australia, 222; Re¬
ception to Mr. Hutchinson, of Cape Town, 222;
Another New Book on Spiritualism, 222 ; Spiritualism
in South Africa, 222; Form Manifestations, 222;
Spiritualism at Brighton, 223 ; Spiritualism in
Brixton, 223; Spiritualism in Dalston, 223; Inspira¬
tional Oration at Brighton, 223; Spiritualism in East
London, 223; Trance Mediumship ... ... ...  223
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record oj the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-JL. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
lies in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness nHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isliam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. ScL, Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Euin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn:
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. II. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A..LL.M.: Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson.'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the Dnited States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ohurchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange street. Chicago: Religio-Philosopkical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S’.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No. joio Seventh-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for May, 1877.
Tuesday, 8th.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, lit A—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 16<A—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
Friday, \8th.—Soiree Committee at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Thursday, 24/A—Seance Committee, at 7 p.m.
Friday, 25lh.—Experimental Research Committee, at 0.30
p.m.
Monday, 28/A—Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ „ Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
Tuesday, 29(A—Annual General Meeting of Members,
at 6.30 p.m.
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held every Thursday evening at 8
p.m. Tickets to Members, Is.; and Seances for Members and
Subscribers only every Tuesday evening, at 8 p.m. Tickets,
2s. 6d. Applications for tickets must always be made in
advance.
A Series of Trance Seances, Mr. E. W. Wallis, medium, are
held every Saturday afternoon; at 3 p.m. Admission to
Members and Friends, Is.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
M
In aid of Defeuce Fund for Free Press.
RS. S. PARKER, of Dublin, will Lecture
on “ Labour versus Degradation," on Tuesday evening,
May 22nd, at 8 for 8.30, the proceeds to be devoted to Mrs.
Anne Besant’s defence, at the Rooms of the Marylebone
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, Quebec Hall, 25,
Great Quebec-street, W.
CHARLES WHITE, Hon. Sec.
J WILLIAM FLETCHER, the American
• Inspirationalist, will deliver a LECTURE on Spirit¬
ualism, in conjunction with the usual Concert, for the benefit
of Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage, on Monday evening, May 21st, at
Langham Hall.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, Clairvoyant and
Trance Medium, No. 14, Southampton-row. Seances
attended at residence if desired. At home 11 to 5. 
Just published, in crown Svo, price 5s. cloth.
Mesmerism, spiritualism, &c., His¬
torically and Scientificallv Considered. By William
B. CARPENTER, C.B., M.D., LL.D., F.R.S.
London: LONGMANS & CO.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.’
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A. Binney.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may- be oh-
tained in Brighton of Mrs. Beal, East-street, and Mr.
Bray, St. James’s-street . __ t
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D, JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeiand, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts afiecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have'the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines arc
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances." and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary. -. :
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .•—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—"Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
HATCHARD’S duplex FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATOHARD & CO.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &C.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BBYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castlecline-road, Anerley, S.E.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 11, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander C alder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square.WestBrompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-vlllas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougail, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Itogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin it., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, AVason’s-bnlldings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Neweastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Itichmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 169, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Itev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd,’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fltton, B , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., 3M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AYestbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, AYest-end, Doddingtou-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AY.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. AYarwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, AYaterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Bev. W. AY., 118, Albany-slrect, Begent’s-park, N.AY.
Pearce, Kichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Eeimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Bogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Bose-viila, Church-end, Finchley, N ,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Bedcliffe-gardens, AYest Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Bedcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheafh, S.E.
Tredwen, B. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
AYalhouse, M. J., 9, Bandoiph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AY.
AVhite, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AViison, D. H. M.A., I,L.M., PosteBestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, A’lie Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin K. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, AVimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. K. Andre, Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Bussia.
Prince Emiie de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Eussie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Bassim Pacha, Khan de Bassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Eue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksanof, Bussian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh,26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J'. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Biehmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Boi de Borne, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bailway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Biko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. II. Terry, 96,
Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., KornerstrasSe 2b, Leipsic, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Bace-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson,Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Bue de Bocroi, Paris.
■■jBev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Bother Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Bue du Midi,
Brussels
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Bue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Bue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. It. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S., Kosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Bich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Bue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. B. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Bue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Bue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,fi. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Bepublica Mexicana. President—
Senbr Befugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GEEAT EUSSELL STEEET, BLOOMSBUEY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Beabees foe 1877.
President.—'William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—Mr. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Oasson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Mr. J. Lament, Mr. Norris, Mr. Eichard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
Eepublished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODEEN SPIEITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Eussell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
BY EUGENE CEO WELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fond(s par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms. 7, Bue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIEE, Consulting Mesmerist (thirty years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at
his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hil), Kensington.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Bich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Eich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Eussell-street, London, W.C.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances ,on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Eesidence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TEANCE SPEAKEE. is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Eue St. Honord,
Paris.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STEEET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, EUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
Thu long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish-,
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as-far as possible in advance.
Manageb—Mrs. A. C. Burke
Mrs. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ” will he published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistoek-square, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HAEEISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street^
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of it priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature."—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be -
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained In Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H, Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
6]#
ftyTa)
gn jj?
ei/b
VotU]VIE TeJM. KuMBER NljHETEEJH.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 11th, 1877.
WAR.
One of the disadvantages of a State Church, whatever
otherwise its merits and demerits, is the fact that it is always
subservient to the secular power, and that when that power
takes good or bad steps which must result in the slaughter
of thousands of human beings, it always implores the bless¬
ing of Almighty God upon the act, and automatically an¬
nounces to the world that the step is under His special
patronage and approval. Consequently religious people who
possess any freedom of religious utterance, and are not
helplessly on their knees before worldly powers, find it to be
their duty at such times, more than all others, to speak out.
Turkey, an oppressor of the helpless, a nation whose
influence falls like a blight upon the onward march of
civilisation, has outraged and cruelly treated a limited
number of Christians. Russia, to remedy this, finds it
necessary—with the special blessing and support of the
Almighty (see manifestoes)—finds it necessary to cut the
throats, shoot, and otherwise murder some tens of thousands
of Turks, and thousands of Russian soldiers. When for the
few Christians slain by Turkey, myriads of other Christians,
in addition to thousands of Mohammedans, have been
slaughtered, the claims of religion, of justice, and of the
political exponents of the will of the Almighty will have
been satisfied, and all Christendom will rejoice with an ex¬
ceeding great gladness.
But England, having in past times stolen India from its
rightful owners by force of diplomacy, of arms, and of divers
cruelties and bloodthirsty outrages, described during the last
generation in the parliamentary speeches of Burke, now
finds it necessary to watch over the property obtained under
the sanction of the Divine Right recognised by the State
Church of that time. Consequently, as Russian encroach¬
ments in Turkey may chance at some indefinite future time
to facilitate an attack upon the India to which we have such
a true and holy claim, the supporters of the present English
Government are urging it to add to the bloodshed and
murder in the East, whilst the great mass of the stupid,
half-educated British public have for the first time in English
history, wholly or partially checked the action of those vested
interests in this country which are always in a chronic state
of favour of war.
But if England and two or three other nations should mix
up in this war, we shall arrive at the grand final result, that
for every Bulgarian ‘£ atrocitised ” a thousand men will have
been slain—always with the special blessing of the Almighty
—and various Christian nations through several generations
will be heavily taxed to pay the expenses, while all Christen¬
dom will sing a Te Deum at this most holy consummation.
Finally, the Bulgarians, under their future masters, under
the stern and oppressive rule which Russia has long exer¬
cised over its subjects in Poland and in regions north of
the Black Sea, may in that happy time, while thanking
England and other nations for what they have done, remark
that, nevertheless, on the whole, they wish the nations of
Europe would go to war once more to free them from
Russia, and to leave them to fight out their own differences
with the weaker power of the Turks.
Philosophers have long since agreed that attempts, how¬
ever philanthropic, to perpetuate a weak race, must result
in failure; so if oppressed Christians in Turkey are not now
noble or chivalrous enough to suffer and to die for that
which they believe to be true, or to leave the country to
live with their alleged dear friends in Russia (who never
dream of plundering a nation or of annexing territory, and
who, according to manifestoes, are so overflowing with love
to them that they could not refuse to pay the expenses), of
what avail is it to attempt to prop up an ignoble people ?
Unadvanced races cannot be civilised before their time,
I and religious and intelligent people should leave them to
| work out their own experiences—to learn lessons from the
| miseries they inflict upon each other; but they should not
| join in the fray, on the same principle that a respectable
| man will not interfere with two blackguards fighting in the
| street. Let them fight it out, and when they are sickened
j and weakened by the conflict, there may be no harm, and
! not much good, in giving them a little advice; the real
| lesson will lie in the practical experience of the results of
| breaking God’s laws in nature.
Meanwhile the religious duty of Spiritualists, doubtless, is
| to weaken the hands as much as possible of those in favour
of war. This may be done by the dissemination of non-
I intervention ideas among the unthinking from platform and
| from pulpit, in public and in private. Human beings
! should understand, in the irreverently pious words of the
I great American poet, that
If you take a sword and dror it,
Go and run a feller through ;
Guv’ment aint to answer for it,
God will send the bill to you.
If some good and useful occupation in times of peace
I could be found for those who are trained to war, and who,
| when in quietude, feel they have no special raison d'etre,
i war feeling in this country would be less easily raised in
| disturbed times in the future than at present. The followers
! of our present Government are more anxious for war than
| anybody else, so that our nominal rulers are somewhat in
I the position of the Emperor of Russia, who, surrounded by
! aristocratic social forces over which he has little personal
I control, now passes his nights in crying.
| | THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Monday evening, last week, at one of the fortnightly meetings of
j 1! the members and friends of the British National Association of Spirit-
; j i ualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
| j i Member of the Society of Telegraph Engineers, presided.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS—ATTEMPTS TO EXPLAIN THEIR NATURE.
| ) j Mr. W. H. Coffin said that the observations he had to make in
i (I opening a discussion on form manifestations, would be about as valuable
||| as if he were to address the meeting on the composition of the fixed
j 11 stars as revealed by the spectroscope, for upon neither subject had he
| (| had personal experience, but depended upon the testimony of others.
11 i As he had not made direct observations, he was obliged to accept, as
11! far as his powers of belief would permit, the statements of those trust-
| J | worthy witnesses who had given the result of their experience. What
j |j he was about to say would consist merely of his floating thoughts upon
I 11 the subject, yet he was aware that the most insignificant spark would
| (I suffice to ignite a powder magazine. Logical Spiritualists had come to
| /1 the conclusion about what were called “ materialisations,” that it was
i (| dangerous to give any title to the phenomena which pointed to a
II i theory; therefore, the term materialisation was objectionable, for it
j)! involved an hypothesis. In what were called materialisation manifesta-
v tions they witnessed the production, in an abnormal manner, of the
11 human form, either in part or in its completeness, and the only tolerably
j f constant factor which he could see in the various records, was the
j ( necessity for the presence of a particular person who was endowed with
j) medial power, which power was modified more or less by the presence
| ( of other persons. To obtain good phenomena, social rapport, pleasant
j ( feeling, and absence of light, seemed to be good, after which the whole
I > of the circle became conscious of the existence of what appeared to be a
i ( physical personality, whose appearance among them they had no means
i) of accounting for. In trying to explain such a phenomenon as this,
| j thinkers at once stumbled upon physical and metaphysical considera-
| ( tions of the deepest nature as to the ultimate constitution of matter, the
| j one school saying that matter existed only in the consciousness of man,
i) and the other thinking matter to consist of particles, at rest or in
j 11 motion. In the first place, there was much evidence showing that the
j 11 great majority of phenomena occurred in the following way: The
| \ | physical body of the medium having been placed away from direct view
I); in a cabinet, either under no test conditions at all, or bound and secured
||| in a variety of ways, is brought out to the circle, and seen by all present
| (| with certain changes of physical expression and characteristics, but
|} j without any distinct evidence of the presentation of additional matter.
In some cases, and in some little understood way, the bonds and seals
i l i were afterwards replaced, Admitting that the medium had been pre-
218
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 11, 1877.
sented and was afterwards restored as before to the securest of bonds, i
the phenomenon was as inexplicable as any they could possibly have to ||
deal with. (Hear, hear). He could not offer the slightest approxima- |)
tion to a theory to explain the facts. In the second place, there was a \l
higher phase of the manifestations. There was a certain amount of j)
evidence that the medium’s body, either with or without some alteration, j)
could be proved to remain in its bonds, while another body resembling j(
that of the medium was amongst the spectators; this duplicate body |)
presented all the characteristics of the medium. If one of these forms j)
were seized, by a so-called transgression of the conditions, the act gave K
rise to the so-called imposture of the medium, who appeared, however, \)
after taking into consideration all the evidence, to be the unconscious ])
iastrument of some external power, and who was not always to be sus- It
pected of using his own body with the intention of making the observers K
believe in the existence of another. The second body would appear to j)
be different from the body of the medium. The observers were thus j(
confronted by the problem of supposing that there was the production of K
an amount of matter which it was difficult to see could come in any way j)
from the medium or the circle. There was much difficulty in forming |(
any hypothesis to explain these things to ordinary physicists. To i)
them the matter in the universe was unalterable, both in quantity |5
and in kind. On such a subject they might speculate to any i j
extent, and the various hypotheses might be very wide of the n
mark. One speculation which had passed through his mind was, |)
that matter might be nothing more than the result of the action of ij
minute forces, the centre of whose sphere of action might be called the ij
centre of the hypothetical atom of the physicist; then it might be that j)
a certain amount of measurable force might undergo such a trahsforma- js
tion as no physicist had ever seen, resulting in the production of a body ij
possessing ponderable mass, which body might afterwards disappear, |j
and the forces resume their original form. However wide of the truth ]\
this idea might be, it came within the category of a possibility. If ij
matter were but a manifestation of force, some of it might disappear in j)
one form and reappear in another, under the control of some unseen i<
intelligence or spirit. The pieces cut from the clothes of these forms ij
had been found to be of human manufacture, brought into the circle in |j
some unexplained way. In some of the manifestations lifeless faces, i<
resembling masks, were shown. There were enormous difficulties sur- |j
rounding any attempt at explaining any of these manifestations, the |j
reality of which it was impossible to deny by those who placed any ij
weight at all on the value of logical and critical human testimony. He ij
came there that evening partly from the selfish motive of laying his i)
difficulties before those who had had more experience than himself, jj
hoping that some light would be shed upon the problems which he had j j
introduced. j)
The Kev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., said that he also would con- if
tribute his mite to show how ignorant they at present were about ma- i j
terialisation phenomena, and he admitted with Mr. Coffin that the pro- i)
blem of the ultimate constitution of matter entered largely into the ij
subject of discussion. At a seance in the dark he had grasped a solid |j
hand which had drawn him upwards until he nearly touched the ceiling, ])
and many others had had the same experience ; he wanted to know i j!
where the fulcrum was which enabled the hand to thus draw him up- j j |
wards; he also wanted to know how that hand came to be wandering j
about in his room. Again, he had in the dark held the medium firmly, | (|
and a welded iron ring with no joint in it was first gently struck against j j j
his arm, and then threaded upon it; it was a case of matter passing j j j
through matter, and he wanted to know whether his arm—which was ij!
a good substantial one—opened in any way, or whether the ring opened, i j;
Such facts made those who were familiar with them sceptical as to the jjl
conclusions of materialistic physicists about the nature of matter. At |
certain materialisation stances, as they were called, there had been pre- j j i
sentations of the body of the medium under certain conditions, but he j j
did not think that that was so strange as the building up of a new body, i j j
He had seen scores of cases of the bringing of solid objects through j|
closed doors into seance rooms, and the freeing of the medium from j) |
bonds seemed to be brought about on the same principle; but the crea- |j!
tion of a separate individual differing from anybody who had previously m
been in the room, was, in his opinion, more difficult to explain. The |j|
clothing of the forms was apparently only of human manufacture; but | j |
when the s&mee was over where did all the clothing goto? When !j|
these forms had been weighed they gave results incompatible under jj;
ordinary circumstances with either the size or stature of human beings ; j j
sometimes they were only one-eighth or one-tenth the proper weight, j j j
Once he saw a hand with a light in it floating about in his own room. |) j
What appeared to be fine muslin was hanging from the hand, and he | j |
did not know where that hand and muslin went to afterwards. He saw | j I
by the papers that they had caught a veritable sea serpent that morning ! j |
—(laughter)—so perhaps they might expect soon to have a materialised ! j j
form. The evidence was good as to the reality of materialised forms, |j|
but admitting that fact, everything he could say by way of explanation | j I
would be but one long note of interrogation. He agreed with Miss |ji
Kislingbury that the public and everybody ought to know that Spirit- | j!
ualists do not for one moment accept every form which comes out of a |j I
cabinet as a materialised spirit, for sometimes there was undoubtedly |j|
the freeing or transformation of the medium; this manifestation was a |j|
perfectly honest one, and of frequent occurrence. Sometimes it was ! j |
quite plain and clear to the observer that the medium was actually Jv
there, presented in such a way that it would have been a most clumsy j j j
performance if considered as an imposture. Experiments ought to jjl
be tried to solve the various difficulties. At present the medium was jjj
put where the sitter could not see him, and he protested against iji
further seances of that kind. Four years ago it was recorded in The ji-
Spiritualist that “John King ” had said that one of the manifestations ! j |
of the future would be to permit the medium to lie upon a sofa in sub- | j |
dued light, in full view of the observers, and that he (John King) after ij j
some little practice would make himself visible hoyering over him. He h!1
should like to see Mr. Williams holding a stance under those conditions.
Spiritualists ought to insist upon some such conditions, and not to waste
time in watching dubious manifestations. Could not an experiment be
tried to show how long a figure different from the medium could subsist
away from him ? At present at seances a large amount of force was
frittered away over a large area, in producing a great proportion of un-
conclusive manifestations; sittings should be held for single and
smaller manifestations produced under good conditions, so that one
point could be cleared up at a time. (Hear, hear.) At present there
was a great waste of spirit power producing results, few of which were of
value. The intelligence connected with these forms seemed to be
almost entirely that of the medium or of the persons in the circle.
THEORIES RELATING TO FORM MANIFESTATIONS—THE WORK OF THE RESEARCH
COMMITTEE.
Mr. W. H. Harrison said: If it were possible to shut out all the other
phenomena of modern Spiritualism, so that none were presented to our
minds but form manifestations, I am not so sure that it would be so very
difficult to give a theory to explain them; I should assume that the
spirit of the medium, when freed from its body during the mesmeric
sleep, had discovered that it possessed peculiar powers over matter, and
used those powers consciously or unconsciously—perhaps the latter,
under the influence of the will-power of the circle—in trying to make
us believe in the existence of the spirits of the departed; but taking
the whole range of the phenomena into consideration, I think this
“ spirit of the medium ” theory to be untenable, at least as the chief
intelligence at work. If anybody could discover where the drapery
came from it would be a step in the right direction, and on the theory
just mentioned I should assume that it probably enough came no farther
than from the medium’s boxes. It is brought into the seance room as a
general rule by spirit power. If the mediums are searched before or
after the sitting there is none of the drapery about them. While
the drapery covers the body of the form it is sometimes
subject to abnormal conditions, there being many instances
on record of pieces being cut from it, and the garment instantly
becoming whole. The best case I ever saw was at one of
Florence Cook’s closing seances. The form calling itself “ Katie ”
was sitting outside the doorway of the room used as a cabinet; inside
the cabinet all through the seance we all saw what we believed to be
the entranced form of Miss Cook; her head was away from us ; we saw
her dress, her hands, and her boots, but it is true we did not see her
features. Katie sat upon the floor outside the cabinet, with Mr. Crookes
on one side of her and Mr. Tapp on the other, both of them quite close.
Among the observers were the parents of the medium, also Mrs. Ross-
Church and myself, as well as several others whose names I now forget.
Katie cut about a dozen pieces from the lower part of the skirt of her:
wide dress, and made presents of them to different observers; great
holes were left in the dress, some few of them large enough to put a
clenched hand through. I then said in effect, and quite spontaneously,
the moment the thought came into my mind—“ Katie, if you can make
that dilapidated dress as good as it was before, as you have done on
previous occasions, it will be a very good case.” It must be remem¬
bered that this was in bright gaslight, with plenty of witnesses. I had
no sooner made the remark than she quietly covered the portion of her
dress which had holes in it with another portion of the dress which had
no holes in it, then uncovered the former part once more, the whole of
the quiet slow movement not occupying more than three or four seconds.
The skirt was at once perfect—not a hole to be seen. Mr. Crookes
asked if he might examine it, and she gave her consent; he drew the
lower part of the skirt inch by inch over his hands, examining it closely,
and testified that there was no hole there, no marks or seam of any
kind. Mr. Tapp then asked similar permission, and after a long careful
examination gave the same testimony. Signor Rondi, in a recent
article in The Spiritualist, has described how he witnessed much the
same thing with another medium, only the spirit told him to
cut the piece from the upper part of the dress because the
skirt had been “ borrowed ; ’’ I suppose the latter remark meant
that it was ordinary drapery, not subject at that or perhaps
any other moment to abnormal conditions. I have attended
some hundreds of seances for form manifestations in the difficult attempt
to pierce the mysteries to their roots. The intelligence of the forms is
very much limited by the intellectual capacity of the mediums; it
scarcely ever exceeds it. There was once, however, a remarkable ex¬
ception at the house of Mr. Crookes, wherein one of these forms gave
Mr. Serjeant Cox a copy of his book What Am I?—gave a member of
the Council of the Royal Society a book written by himself, which book
was not lettered upon the back—it also gave a well-known traveller
present a book written by himself; it furthermore gave a copy of The
Spiritualist to me. The cabinet was Mr. Crookes’s library, which
the medium, an illiterate person, had entered only five minutes before,
and Mr. Crookes himself could not have found those books from
amongst the great mass of volumes in the dark. Moreover, while all
this was going on, the position of the medium was accounted for, for
she was made part of an electrical circuit, and all the time the indications
of the reflecting galvanometer outside, showed that she was grasping
the handles of the opposite poles of the battery, while the form was
giving us the books. The apparatus was so sensitive that it showed
her breathing, as she unconsciously grasped the metallic handles a
little tighter at each inspiration or expiration. This manifestation
shows that some power was there, well acquainted with the past
lives of the persons present, and with their works in the world of
science. I thoroughly agree with Mr. Stainton-Moses that it is
high time that cabinets were abolished, and that no more
energy should henceforth be wasted in watching dubious manifestations
which are the same night after night, and give no additional religious,
scientific, or useful information of any kind. Some of these problems,
I think, might be solved by the Research Committee, many members of
ITUALIST. 219
May 11, 1877.
THE SPIH
which are now present. I do not agree with my fellow members that i j
the present line of action of that committee is a wise one, but have no | (
desire that my individual opinions should interfere with the wishes of j j
the majority. I think that the Research Committee has never at- /
tempted any research. I think that the attempt to get new manifes- j (
tations to convert disbelievers is foreign to the duties of a research i j
committee, which ought to act quite independently of the outside ||
world ; moreover to develop new manifestations through the organism | (
of a medium requires considerable expenditure of time and money, jj
and may fail in the end. Besides there is no research about it; it is j j
turning the work of the Research Committee into that of a developing jj
circle, and the work of developing circles can be, and is in some jj
towns, carried on without scientific knowledge or appliances. Then j j
again our chairman has informed us that a portion of the time j(
of the Research Committee has been spent in attempting to con- jj
vince some of its own members unacquainted with the phenomena; j j
this I should suppose to be expensive, and foreign to the duties
of a Research Committee. Should not inquirers gain their own j
experiences ? I think there is no research in sitting for new mani- j j
festations which the observers can no more explain than those which j (
preceded them, but that research consists rather in dealing with j
phenomena already common, and sifting their nature as far as possible i j
by experiment. Why not, for instance, take Mr. Eglinton and ascer- i(
tain by means of instruments whether his own hands grow cold, jj
supposing energy to be taken from them to form the materialised i
spirit hands commonly produced in his presence 1 The attempt might j (
also be made to discover whether the temperature of various portions i j
of his brain varies during the production of the manifestations. I have ij
hypothetical reasons for supposing that during the production of ij
physical manifestations, there are special changes in the temperature of j j
the back part of the brain of the medium, and that during trance ma- j j
nifestations there are changes in the temperature of the top portion of j j
the brain. This question could easily be answered by research, and jj
results of a positive or negative nature thereby brought to our know- j
ledge. Experiments with mesmeric sensitives would throw much j
light on the nature of spiritual phenomena. i j
THE ULTIMATE CONSTITUTION OF MATTER—THE BURNING INFLUENCE APPER- j
TAINING TO CERTAIN SPIRITS. j)
Mr. Edward Maitland said that he thought that matter in itself had ij
no existence save as a mode of action of an Infinite Consciousness, jj
until the Infinite Will recalls it into itself; he thought that there were j(
only two things in the universe, mind, and the modes of thought of j j
that mind. By planchette writing on the preceding Saturday, he had jj
had a message from a spirit, who had been so long from earth that he |(
seemed to have forgotten all about it, and who stated that he only saw j j
magnetic centres surrounded by spirits; he did not know what we j j
meant by “ planets.” Another spirit described himself and those j (
about him as pure flames. Once, when the planchette had written a j j
message, a friend of his touched it inadvertently, and it burnt her so j j
much that a large blister came upon the end of her finger ; there was j (
no lamp near, nor any heated surface to cause a blister. The spirits j j
wrote, “ We are sorry that Mary put her hand in our midst, that we if
may not suffer by the contact.” They told them to get a new table made j (
of metal or of stone, which would bear intense heat; they seemed to jj
think more about harm to themselves than to the sitters.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that he had been burnt by spirit influence j
three or four times. j j
MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS. j(
Miss Kislingbury agreed with Mr. Stainton-Moses that it was most j j
desirable that the public should know that Spiritualists did not think j f
every form which came out of a cabinet to be a materialised spirit, j (
There was much difficulty in the way of the theory that the medium j j
was sometimes brought out; still, it occasionally occurred. Once she if
saw an American medium come out of a cabinet with a mask on, and j (
go directly under the gaslight, which she turned up to full flare, so j j
that everybody could see beyond all doubt that it was a mask. It was i (
quite plain that no medium in the conscious state would do such a thing i j
as that. On that occasion it was certainly the medium, and no jj
materialisation. She thought the theory that Mr. Harrison had once j (
broached in that room, about the ebb and flow of energy from the j j
bodies of mediums to and from materialised forms, to be a true one. j j
If a medium when in a mesmeric sleep had his eyes closed, how was it j\
that the forms ran about with their eyes wide open, and with plenty of jj
speculation in them? She much regretted the absence of Dr. Carter jf
Blake, who had attended those meetings regularly, and who on a bed of j (
dangerous sickness felt the same interest in what was going on, so jj
much so that with his own hand he had written to her about the jj
problems to be considered that evening. She knew a young lady who j (
had recently developed into an extraordinary medium. While she was ! j
asleep the spirits, according to their own account, drew power from her jj
for an hour or two ; she then woke up and saw a spirit in her room as j(
solid as any ordinary mortal. This appeared not to be due to subjective j j
impressions, for at her request they had brought and left with her jj
several presents, which remained in her possession after the forms had ij
departed. As yet these forms had not been produced in the presence i j
of witnesses, but they told her they expected to be able to show them- j (
selves to others in a short time. j j
Mr. Edward Maitland remarked that he knew of another case of the j j
same kind, j;
Miss Kislingbury continued that Dr. Carter Blake had told her that i j
on one occasion he saw a mass of white drapery vanish into the breast jj
of the medium. ij
The Chairman remarked that he once thought that the old magical ij
process of using ij
“ Eye of newt and toe of frog,” • |j
as well as the liver of an unconverted Jew—(laughter)—might aid ij
in giving vital energy to spirits for the production of manifestations,
thereby doing away with the necessity of their drawing the said vital
energy from the medium. He had tried experiments in this direc¬
tion, but without success.
Mr. Harrison asked what was the nature of his experiments; did he
kill cats ? (Laughter.)
The Chairman replied that he put organic matter into a vessel, and
destroyed its organic properties by means of sulphuric and nitric acids.
Mr. Edward Maitland said that animals appeared to have had
something to do with the ancient mysteries, in connection with which
carnivorous animals such as dogs appeared to be rejected, but cows and
bulls accepted as sacred.
The Chairman remarked that he had long held the hypothesis that
matter was the mode of will of the Creative Being. Would Mr. Massey
say a few words on the subject before the meeting ?
Mr. C. C. Massey replied that he would rather be silent until he
had something to say, as his state of mind was that of utter bewilder¬
ment upon this subject.
The Chairman remarked that Faraday once said that he had experi¬
mented a great deal upon electricity, and that the more he learned
about it experimentally, the more ignorant he found himself as to the
way to a theory. Faraday’s experience was very much like that of
those who had had much to do with form manifestations. On one
occasion at a seance all his ideas as to the nature of form manifestations
had been changed, for on that eventful evening a living face came, so
bright, so beautiful, so unlike that of the medium, that he saw that
some power was behind the phenomena capable of producing greater
than ordinary results.
Mr. Pearson remarked that Sir Humphry Davy once took nitrous
oxide and exclaimed, “ What revelations ! All my thoughts are solid !
They run into substantial form.” He thought that that remark of the
learned chemist was very suggestive;
Mrs. Hallock, commenting upon the fabrics with which spirits clothed
themselves, said it was not always common stuff; those pieces which
the spirit of Mrs. Livermore cut off her dress and gave away were not
of a coarse nature, but most beautiful when examined under a micro¬
scope. They were as delicate in their appearance as the wing of a
butterfly or any other natural object. She had had the pleasure of
seeing them thus magnified, and the fabric was evidently different
from any of mortal make. As to the intelligence displayed, we were
doubtless as yet not fully aware of the difficulties under which spirits
manifested. Dr. Hallock once had two clairvoyants in New York, who in
their normal state were coarse to the last degree, and who led dissolute
lives, but they were wonderful sensitives. In the deep trance, when
unconscious, the sentiments they expressed were of the most exalted
kind, equal to any that had ever been heard from pulpit or platform.
When Dr. Hallock began to wake them up they would always swear at
him for doing so, saying that they did not wish to be called back to
earth. She thought that all human beings, in their innermost, were
better and wiser than they appeared to be in their normal state.
Mr. Stainton-Moses produced a piece of spirit drapery, cut by him
from the fabric hanging from the wrist of a materialised hand. He
said that when he cut it, it was as coarse as a Turkish towel, but now
it looked like the finest cambric. It had changed in his hands.
Mr. Wilson knew a young lady who would occasionally go into a
state of coma, and the children would then sometines see her spirit
walking about in the garden. He thought that the question of
the characteristics of mediums should be dealt with at one of their
meetings.
Mr. Stainton-Moses moved the adjournment of the debate.
This was seconded by Mr. Harrison, and carried unanimously.
The consideration of these subjects will, therefore, be resumed mxt
Monday evening at eight o’clock.
Mr. W. J. Colville, trance medium, has made two collections in
Brighton at the close of his public addresses, in aid of Mrs. Weldon’s
Orphanage.
The narrative printed in The Spiritualist of April 6th, on “ Spirit-
Rapping among the Ancestors [of Mr. P. A. Taylor, M.P.,” relates to
the celebrated “ Cock-lane Ghost.”
Next Monday week Mr. Fletcher, trance medium, of the United
States, will give a trance address for the first time in public in this
country, at one of Mrs. Weldon’s weekly concerts, at the Langham
Hall, Portland-place, London.
Spiritual Phenomena in Durham County.—Mr. C. J. Oyston,
of Hunwick, Willington, Durham, sends us an account of a materialisa¬
tion stance at High Grange ; the medium was Mr. R. Brunskill, and the
sitting took place at the house of Mr. James White. Several forms
appeared, and the genuineness of the manifestations was accepted by
those present, because of their faith in Mr. Brunskill, who is a non¬
professional medium of good character, and who accepts no recompense
for his services.
The Facts True.—Is it possible to push aside such a mass of evi¬
dence, and treat such men as dreamers and fanatics ? Can you have
stronger cases than those of Dr. Elliotson and Dr. Robertson of the
folly of condemning and denouncing before inquiry ? It cannot be that
you do not wish to believe, or that you can remain indifferent to the
subject whether it be a truth or not. For my part, though I have long
made up my mind that spirit is the only solution that covers the mani¬
fold phases which are being developed hourly, I do not, and never have
insisted, that others should accept that belief. All that I am concerned
in is, to establish beyond cavil, that marvellous manifestations, ap¬
parently in violation of natural laws, do occur, and that we who believe in
them are under no delusion.;—B, Coleman, Rise and Progress of
Spiritualism in England,
220 THE SPIRITUALIST. May 11, 1877.
S&ebtete.
Harriet Martineau's Autobiography. By Maria Weston
Chapman. London: Smith, Elder and Co., 1877.
This is one of the most interesting and instructive books
ever written. It is the history of a mind working its way
to independence, and thereby to fuller life and happiness
through difficulties of an unusual kind. Harriet Martineau
was born in the town of Norwich, of Unitarian parents, who
were descendants of Huguenot exiles, and she seems to
have inherited much of that power of will and endurance
which must be an important factor in the stuff of which
heroes and martyrs are made. Her spirit, however, was
imprisoned in a weak, nervous, and sickly body, which
occasioned a shy manner, often misinterpreted as sullenness.
She was also subject to deafness, which increased with her
years, and obliged her, before the age of thirty, to use a
trumpet. Being thus, in a sense, shut out from sympathy
with the outer world, Miss Martineau early acquired a habit
of introspection, and, being naturally religious, she took in
hand, by a course of rigid self-examination and analysis of
her own character, the correction of her faults. Her
“management” of herself and her affairs was shown at
an early age, by keeping strict accounts and regulating her
expenditure while she was young enough to receive an
allowance of a penny a week, and, at seven years old, she
began to take moral charge of herself, keeping a paper
book, ruled and duly headed with Scripture texts, for
encouragement or rebuke, as the case might be. This
methodical turn of mind stood her in good stead in after
years, when labouring to maintain herself by her pen, with
an immense acquaintance and endless interruptions. Miss
Martineau never would allow, as many kind friends wished
to impress upon her, that she injured herself by “ over¬
work” or “mental excitement,” and she attributes her
happy escape from these evils to her habit of doing her
literary work chiefly in the morning, and to her persistent
refusal" to use stimulants. In spite of bad health, and
occasional feelings qf. indolence and irresolution, she held
firmly to the conviction that it is possible to be master
of one’s mental powers, and that “ intellectual in¬
dustry and intellectual punctuality are as practicable as
industry and punctuality in any other direction,” and that
“ all the quarter-hours, arguings, doubtings, and hesitation
as to whether I should work or not, which I gave way to in
my inexperience, I how regard as so much waste, not only
of time, but, far worse, of energy.” Besides the time which
Miss Martineau flevoted to literature, she also took part in
household affairs, and made and mended all her own clothes,
and thus was as able to wield her needle as her pen; a fact
which she was often careful to mention, as a vindication
of her mother’s good training, and as a protest against the
conclusions of shallow-minded persons, who imagine that
literary women are unfit for domestic life. Miss Martineau’s
relations to her seven brothers and sisters, and other
members of her family, are a proof of her capacity for
affection and for household duties; nevertheless she con¬
sidered that it was a necessity of her moral nature for her
to live a good deal alone. The passages in the book which
treat of this subject, and particularly of her early training
and development, are of deep psychological import and
interest.
The history of Miss Martineau’s writings and her literary
career must be learned from the book itself Of her in¬
domitable power of will the following extract gives a
striking example. She was then twenty-nine years of age,
and she had gone to London alone, in a foggy and sleety
December, to try and find a publisher for her Political
Economy Series, all attempts by correspondence having failed,
on account, as the publishers put it, 11 of the excitement
of the public mind about the Reform Bill and the Cholera.”
She went to Mr. J. W. Fox, who had brought out several
of her earlier writings in the Monthly Repository, a Unitarian
publication, of which he was editor. Mr. Fox had partly
negotiated an arrangement for bringing out the Series with
his brother, a young bookseller, without much business at
the time. After having agreed with him, sorely against'her
wish, to publish the work by subscription, she returned to
| Mr. Fox to show him the prospectus she had drawn up.
| This is her account of the interview :
|| ‘‘I found Mr. Fox in a mood as gloomy as the day. He had seen Mr.
| j James Mill who had assured him that my method of exemplication (the
(j grand principle of the whole scheme) could not possibly succeed ; and
j Mr. Fox now required of me to change my plan entirely, and issue my
(I Political Economy in a didactic form ! Of course 1 refused. He
11 started a multitude of objections, feared everything and hoped nothing.
11 I saw, with anguish and no little resentment, my last poor chance slip-
| ping from me. I commanded myself while in his presence. The occa-
ji sion was too serious to be misused. I said to him, ‘ I see you have
j taken fright. If you wish that your brother should draw back, say so
j! now. Here is the advertisement. Make up your mind before it goes
| to press.’ He replied, * I do not wish altogether to draw back.’ ‘ Yes,
j you do,’ said I ; ‘and I had rather you would say so at once. But I
|| tell you this ; the people want this book, and they shall have it’’ ‘I
(i know that is your intention,’ he replied; ‘ but I own I do not see how
I it is to come to pass.’ ‘ Nor I; but it shall. So, say that you have
j done with it, and I will find other means.’ ‘ I tell you, I do not wish
| altogether to draw out of it; but I cannot think of my brother going
on without decisive success at the outset.’ ‘ What do you mean,
| precisely?’ ‘I mean that he withdraws at the end of two numbers,
unless the success of the work is secured in a fortnight.’ ‘What do
| you mean by success being secured ? ’ ‘ You must sell a thousand in a
fortnight.’ ‘ In a fortnight! That is unreasonable ! Is this your
ultimatum?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘We shall not sell a thousand in the first fort-
jj night; nevertheless, the work shall not stop at two numbers. It shall
ji go on to five, with or without your brother.’ ”
Ten days after publication it was found necessary to print
I five thousand copies of the book, and from that time forward
i Miss Martineau never had any more care about money
| matters.
j The gradual development of her religious ideas from the
I time when she and her brother James dug themselves graves,
j and then lay down in them to see what dying was like, to
j her final adoption of the Necessarian doctrine, and the
|f ultimate form of her opinions after her acquaintance with
j Mr. Atkinson, is interesting in the extreme. During a visit
j to Bristol at the age of sixteen, she went through a period
j of pastor-worship, the idol being the Unitarian minister,
j Dr. Carpenter, whom she afterwards describes as “ superficial
j in his knowledge, scanty in ability, narrow in his concep-
j tions, and thoroughly priestly in his temper.”
j Probably no other woman ever rose in so short a time,
j from comparative obscurity, at an early age,' and by the sole
| virtue of her literary ability, to be a power in the State.
| | She had no sooner settled herself in London, after the ap-
| | pearance of her third tale of the Illustrations of Political
j | Economy, than she was besieged by Ministers of State press-
l | ing their views upon her with regard to some measure of
| I reform they had in hand, begging her to illustrate it in her
I I next number, that it might reach the minds of the people
| I before it was brought on for legislation. Most of these
| | aspirants for her favourable notice were sent empty away;
| | only Lord Brougham prevailed upon her to write a separate
| j series on the Poor Law, having offered to send her all the
| j! evidence collected by the Commissioners of Inquiry into the
I operation of the Poor Laws. Complete copies of her
I “ Series” were ordered by the principal crowned heads in
| l Europe, and were later on excommunicated in Russia and
| | Austria, and the authoress herself forbidden to set foot in
| | either country. Miss Martineau seems to have been born
11 with & penchant for political economy, for when her attention
| | was formally drawn to the subject, she found she had been
| | writing about it without ever having heard the name. She
| | relates how amused Mr. Malthus was when she told him that
Hj she had been sick of his name before she was fifteen. The
| | unprecedented success which attended Miss Martineau
j| through life, without patronage or introduction, influenced
| I her views on the so-called “ woman” question in a manner
| I which will probably be shared by many who have similarly
| | fought their own way to distinction. The following passage
I | contains nearly all she had to say on the subject:—
1“ Nobody can be further than I am from being satisfied with the
condition of my own sex, under the law and custom of my own
country; but I decline all fellowship and co-operation with women
of genius or otherwise favourable position, who injure the cause by
their personal tendencies .... Often as I am appealed to to speak,
or otherwise assist in the promotion of the cause of woman, my answer
is always the same, that women, like men, can obtain whatever they
show themselves fit for. Let them be educated—let their powers be
cultivated to the extent for which the means are already provided, and
all that is wanted or ought to be desired will follow of course. "What-
j ever a woman proves herself able to do, society will be thankful to see
May IT, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
221
her do, just as if she were a man. ... If capable of political thought
and action, women will obtain even that.”
One of the most attractive chapters in the book is that
in which Miss Martineau marshals before the reader a
series of portraits of the celebrated men and women (states¬
men, wits, poets, and literati) of the day, from her personal
acquaintance and observation during her life in London.
Some are highly-finished pictures, others mere sketches,
but all are masterly in their way. Her clear eye and cool
judgment, joined to her thoroughness and sincerity of
expression, made her a faithful delineator of character,
not sparing the lash now and then, while her stern sense
of justice forbade her to omit any good trait. Her little
anecdotes, often told with racy humour, are well-pointed
and amusing, such as the story of Carlyle going out on a
fine black horse to look for a new house in London, with
three maps of Great Britain and two of the world in his
pocket, when he has lived in Cheyne-row, where he then
was, ever since ; and of Robert Owen, “ whose benevolence
and charming manners would make him the most popular
man in England if he could but distinguish between asser¬
tion and argument,” but “ who was not the man to think
differently of a book for having read it.”
That Harriet Martineau remained unspoiled by fame and
flattery, through whole seasons of London society, is in
itself an evidence of her sterling nobility of character. A
greater ordeal, however, awaited her in America, where she
went for recreation after her task of the Illustrations, which
occupied her unceasingly for two years and a half, was
completed. Here she was unexpectedly launched into the
vortex of agitation produced by the beginning of the Aboli¬
tionist movement, and Miss Martineau having, in one of
her Series, expressed strong anti-slavery views, she was a
marked person from the time she set foot in the States.
Without courting publicity, she never concealed her con¬
victions, for she felt that an open avowal of them was the
least she could give to a cause for which Lloyd Garrison,
and other Americans who became her friends, were staking
life, liberty, and all they possessed. Her extreme prac¬
ticality is shown by her interest in this as well as in
every great movement affecting the actual and immediate
well-being of the people, and she expressed her condemna¬
tion of those who in her day pursued u a metaphysical
idealism destructive of all genuine feeling and sound ac¬
tivity.” In this view lay, probably, the secret of her great
influence; she never wasted her energies or her emotions,
but brought them, with all the strength of her intellect to
bear on questions of the day, and of wide practical import.
She did not write or act either for fame or money, or even with
the avowed intention of doing good; but, as every true
woman should write and act, because she could not help it.
Her high moral tone is nowhere more clearly seen than in
her negotiations with various rival publishers, who called on
her with tempting offers to be allowed the privilege of
bringing out her book on America the very first day her
return to London was known. She relates this experience
in detail for the purpose of showing u how the degradation
of literature comes about in times when speculating pub¬
lishers try to make grasping authors, and to convert the
serious function of authorship into a gambling match.”
Her dislike of shams, unrealities, and general dilettantism
comes out in her comments on the meeting of the British
Association at Newcastle in 1838, which kind of anniversary
she speaks of as always “ sadly spoiled by the obtrusions of
coxcombs, the conceit of third-rate men with their spe¬
cialities, the tiresome talk of one-idead men, and the
disagreeable footing of the ladies,” of whom she wished
that “ they had stayed at home preparing hospitalities for
the tired samns, instead of going in and out, seeking
amusement, as their grandmothers did at auctions.”
Miss Martineau’s self-knowledge and common sense
were of most signal avail to her when struck down by a
lingering five years’ illness, in the incipient stages of which
she insisted upon a solitary life, “ till obedience to a newly-
discovered law of nature ” raised her up and sent her forth
into the world again “ for another ten years of strenuous
work, and almost undisturbed peace and enjoyment of mind
and heart.” This “ law ” was mesmerism; and her re¬
covery by its means was the cause of more than a usual
I share of persecution. Her account of it was published in
| six letters to the Athenceum, which carried six numbers of
that journal through three editions. Nevertheless the editor,
1 who had eagerly assented to Miss Martineau’s terms of
| publication, one of which was that she should receive no
payment for the articles, appended to the last£< a string of
| comments insulting and slanderous to the last degree.”
| The following passage can hardly be read by Spiritualists
without a smile :—
“ Such a persecution could hardly be repeated now, in regard to the
! particular subject, after the great amount of evidence of the facts of
mesmerism which the intervening years have yielded; but it will be
repeated in regard to every new discovery of a power or leading fact
i in nature.. . . And, as long as anything in the laws of the universe
[ remains to be revealed, there is a tolerable certainty that somebody will
| yet be persecuted, whatever is the age of the world.”
There is much more in these volumes of special interest
| to Spiritualists, such as the experiments in mesmerism,
j; made by Miss Martineau for healing purposes after her own
! recovery by its means. She speaks of her power as moderate,
| yet she had sometimes seven patients asleep at one time in
her sitting-room, and all on whom she tried her hand were
| either cured or sensibly benefited. Her most successful
| case was that of a young nursemaid, subject to sick head-
| aches, to the extent that life was a burden to her. After the
first trial, which sent the girl into a mesmeric trance in seven
| minutes, the headaches never returned, and the result of
I subsequent daily treatment was that the patient began to
I grow fast, became completely altered, and very pretty. Miss
| Martineau was herself sensitive to trance influence, as
| appears by her relating that, after her cure, she used to
| become unconscious when mesmerised, and “ discoursed in a
way which those who heard it call very remarkable,” and
] that fragments taken down by a short-hand writer were
wholly unlike anything she had ever said under any other
! circumstances. She even allows that her utterances may
have been of the same nature as those given forth by
| mesmeric patients as communications from the “ spiritual
world,” but in a note she adds that “ if any such students
should think fit to summon her after death, they will only
| get a visit from the ghosts of their own thoughts.” Two
remarkable cases of clairvoyance, which were among Miss
! Martineau’s experiences, are given in the third volume.
Miss Martineau found no place in her philosophy, and no
| necessity in her life, for belief in a future state of existence.
| Her matured views on this subj ect are to be found in the history
| of the Atkinson letters, and in the Letters themselves. Mr.
j Atkinson’s name is so well known among Spiritualists, that
this portion of the book will be read by them with particular
I) | interest. Miss Martineau speaks of him as being the only
j I person, of the multitude she had known, “who clearly
j ! apprehended this central truth,” viz., “that science (or the
| | knowledge of fact inducing the discovery of laws) is the sole
1 and the eternal basis of wisdom, and therefore of human
I | morality and peace;” and that “his knowledge of man,
j j general and particular, physical, intellectual and moral,
I theoretical and practical,” was greater than she ever met
| I with elsewhere, in books or conversation. The publication of
| the Letters on Man's Nature and Development ^cosfc Miss
(j Martineau some early friends, and brought down on her the
|| censure of reviewers, but its principal effect was only “ to
dissolve all false relations, and to confirm all true ones.”
In her expression of her views about death, at the close of
I the volume, Miss Martineau declares herself “ frankly
| satisfied to have done with life.” She neither wished to live
longer here, nor to find life again elsewhere. She believed
firmly in the progress of the race, and that was enough foi
her. To those who hold, with the Spiritualists, that what-
| ever be our wishes on the subject, the individual, as a matter
of fact, does not perish, but passes on to higher states of
| existence and progression, it will appear probable that the
| ! prospect before Harriet Martineau, who had attained,
! .| through self-discipline and labour for others, to so exalted a
| | spiritual condition here, must be one of glorious beauty and
| i brightness, an existence no less under law than our present
j|l one, at least not more devoid of duty, and surely not less full
! of love. Emily Kislingbuby.
H Mr. E. W. Wallis gives a trance seance every Saturday afternoon
ill at 38, Great Bussell-street, London,
222
THE SPlRITtiALIST.
May 11, 1877.
Writing mediumship considered by a committee
OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.
On Thursday morning, last week, Mrs. Lowe, honorary secretary to |
the Lunacy Law Reform Association, gave evidence before a Committee
of the House of Commons, appointed to inquire into the working of |
the Lunacy Laws. Mr. Stephen Cave, M.P., presided in a most j
efficient manner. Among the listeners present were Mrs. Makdougall j
Gregory, Miss Kislingbury, Miss Spencer, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. , j
The following cross-examination of Mrs. Lowe took place on the sub¬
ject of passive writing :—
Sir Trevor Lawrence—You are acquainted with the evidence that j
Mr. White gave in regard to spirit writing 1
Mrs. Lowe—-Yes.
Sir Trevor Lawrence—I am not saying that a belief in Spiritualism j
necessitates the belief that a person is insane; I understand you to
say, that you have an impulse or a prompting from some unseen in- j
fluence, which leads you to write something on paper ?
Mrs. Lowe—I do not think you understood me to say that, because !
I have not mentioned it.
Sir Trevor Lawrence—I understood from Mr. White’s evidence that |
that was your belief ?
Mrs. Lowe—Well, not exactly. Mr. White does not quite under¬
stand it. Will the Committee allow me to read a very few lines from j
a letter written by one of the regular contributors to the Westminster J
Review ? n
Sir Trevor Lawrence—As far as I am personally concerned I have i i
no objection to it, but I wanted to ascertain for myself, as far as I j J
could, by two or three questions, what your real opinion was 1 j |
Mrs. Lowe—It is very difficult to describe passive writing to anybody i I
but a Spiritualist.
Sir Trevor Lawrence—Passive writing is an expression which means |
■—what ? i
Mrs. Lowe—It merely means that you hold some writing implement j
in your hand, and without any spontaneous effort on your own part j
writing is traced. The only thing that one can compare it intelligibly j
to, is to the guiding of a child’s hand by an older person. ! j
Sir Trevor Lawrence—The hand moves ? j
Mrs. Lowe—The hand which writes moves, or rather the implement j j
writes through the hand and produces very often writings. It expresses j
ideas which are not consciously in the medi urn’s mind.
Chairman—Is that called planchette 1 j
Mrs. Lowe—No; that is altogether different. I described it long |
ago in this way. I said, it is writing produced without conscious cere- I
bration, Or consciously spontaneous muscular action; and beyond that j (
no one can say what it is ?
Sir Trevor Lawrence—Is the writing that is produced, in words and |
sentences, or in some hieroglyphics that require interpretation ? ! j
Mrs. Lowe—In perfect words and sentences; different kinds of i
handwriting; sometimes it is perfect nonsense, and sometimes it is j
not. I have published one small pamphlet of communications made j
in that way, which several people have accepted, and liked extremely. |
Sir Trevor Lawrence—When you have got writings which are, as j
you say, nonsense, do you throw them in the fire, or do you keep |
them 1 . . i j
Mrs. Lowe—I have burnt quires of them. |
Sir Trevor Lawrence—When, according to your view, they are not j
nonsense, do you consider them as directions for action 1 i
Mrs. Lowe—It is very difficult to answer that question; there is j
very often no action in them at all. i
Sir Trevor Lawrence—What I want to get at is this, whether when |
you have communications in this way from some unseen source, you i
occasionally base action upon them ? j
Mrs. Lowe—No, never on that alone, certainly. j
Sir Trevor Lawrence—However imperious the mandate might be j
from the unseen world, to do this or that, you would not consider it j (
incumbent upon you to do it? . -
Mrs. Lowe—Certainly not. ]
Sir Trevor Lawrence—Have you any of the writings with you ? j
Mrs. Lowe—No, I thought I had brought the pamphlet, but I find I i
have not.
Sir Trevor Lawrence—I only wish to ascertain your own individual j I
views on the subject. I assume that the allegation of your not being |
in your right mind, was based in some shape or way upon your belief |
in Spiritualism ? is not that so ? |
Mrs. Lowe—I suppose it was; you will find the exposition of my i
views pretty plainly expressed in that letter. (Handing same to !
Committee.) )
Mb. F. W. Fercival intends leaving London for Italy at the end of j
this week, and will not return to England until the middle of June. |
Spiritual Phenomena in Newcastle.—On Sunday morning last, at j
the rooms of the Newcastle-on-Tyne Psychological Society, about five- j
and-twenty observers assembled at a seance, with Miss Fairlamb as the
medium. It was unanimously agreed not to secure the medium in any j j
way, but to take what came on its own merits, the result being that j i
three different forms came out of the cabinet; first that of Minnie, ] I
about the height of the medium, but more slender, remaining visible i(
and exchanging greetings with some of the. sitters for about ten j
minutes; next that of Cissy, about three feet high, intermingling j
with them for a much longer period; lastly, that of a man, legs, j
arms, hands, feet, face, and actions most demonstratably masculine, (I
and larger than the medium altogether. He stood a stronger light than j!
the others. With the exception of returning into the cabinet once, jj
evidently to gain more power, he remained among the sitters for nearly j !
half an hour.—J. T, Rhodes. / ■ • ' Hi
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING op the council.
Last Tuesday night, at. a meeting of the Council of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, held at 38, Great Russell-street,
London, Mr. Alexander Calder presided. The other members present
were—Mr. Algernon Joy, M. Inst. C.E. ; Mr. M. J. Walhouse, F.R. A.S.;
Mrs. Maltby; Mr. Dawson Rogers; Miss Houghton ; Mr. E. T. Bennett;
Mr. Morell Theobald; Mr. W. B. Mawson ; Mr. T. H. Edmands ; Mrs.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald; Mr. A. Glendinning; and Mr. R. Pomeroy
Tredwen.
Six new ordinary members were elected, including Mr. R. Linton.
There was one resignation.
The report of the Finance Committee showed a balance in hand of
.£64 2s., and recommended payments to the extent of ,£45 6s. Id.; the
total outstanding liabilities of the Association were estimated at £5.
An offer by Mr. A. T. Peterson of a donation of £1 towards increasing
the number of books in the Lending Library, if ten others would do
the same, was announced. Mr. Calder entered his name for £2 towards
this object.
The Secretary read the proposed annual report of the Council, to be
brought before the forthcoming annual general meeting. It announced
an increase of eighty paying members over those of last year.
Mr. Rogers suggested that in future the report should be brought
before the Council earlier in the year, that there might be more time
for its consideration.
Mr. Morell Theobald moved the adoption and printing of the report.
This was seconded and carried unanimously.
The Offices Committee reported funds in hand towards improvement
of the premises, to the amount of £18 12s. 6d., including the proceeds
of the last soiree.
It was resolved that, after June next, the monthly soirees should be
discontinued during the dead season.
A vote of thanks was passed unanimously to Mr. Calder, for the
admirable way in which he had filled the office of president during the
year.
The President returned thanks, and the proceedings closed.
M. Gustave de Veh is now in London, but will return to Dresden in a
week’s time.
Two poems will be found upon another page, written by Miss Caroline
Burke, assistant secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Rev. C. Maurice DIvies, D.D., has finished his interesting series of
poetical readings at the residence of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory. Next week
we hope to give a quotation from one of the lectures.
Dr. Monck will be released from prison to-day, and might well be engaged
at .private seances during the rest of the London season, to prove that slate¬
writing phenomena are genuine.
Mr. Peebles in Australia.—Just before going to press we have received
from Mr. J. M. Peebles news of his arrival in Australia, also a copy of the
Daily Herald of March 16th, which sets forth that on the preceding evening a
large public reception had been given to Mr. Peebles in Melbourne.
Mr. W. Sadler, of 127, Bute-road, Cardiff, wishes publicly to return
thanks for two parcels of books presented to his “ Free Spiritualists’ Library”
by Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, also for a parcel of books presented by Mr.. John
Scott, of Belfast.
Canon Gilbert, in his sermon last Sunday, assumed that wo said that ho
could heal diseases, whereas the point at issue was the assertion [of the
Catholic Church that the Lourdes water effects cures. The moral responsi¬
bility of the clergy comes in, in their endorsement of the efficacy of the water.
Reception to Mr. Hutchinson, of Cape Town.—We have been requested
to state that a reception will be given on Tuesday evening next, May 15th, at
Mrs. Burke’s, 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square, London, to Mr. Hutch¬
inson, of Cape Town, who will narrate his experiences of Spiritualism in Cape
Colony, and that any friends who have not received a special invitation, but
who may wish to be present, are desired to signify the same to Mrs. Burke..
Another New Book, on Spiritualism.—A new work on Spiritualism, in
two or three large volumes, by Mr. W. H. Harrison, is in course of prepa¬
ration, and the first volume will come out towards the close of the autumn.
For eight years, in order to obtain practical knowledge of the subject, Mr.
Harrison attended upon an average about three seances a week, with various
mediums of more or less celebrity, that he might learn what the facts actually
were. He therefore thinks it now time to give the results of this large amount
of observation in a book, and to attempt to thread the facts together, where
possible, by a little philosophy.
Spiritualism in South Africa.—Mr. Berks T. Hutchinson has done more
than anybody else to spread a knowledge of Spiritualism in Cape Colony, and
he recently presented to the Grey Library in Cape Town thirty-six standard
works on Spiritualism, written by Judge Edmonds, Mr. Robert Dale Owen,
Mr. William Crookes, Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace, and others. We have not
room for a complete list of them in this number of The Spiritualist, but Mr.
Hutchinson wishes the Cape Colony Spiritualists to know that they can find
the books in the library just mentioned. He says that shortly before he left
for England, a spirit who gave the name of “Barkly ” came to one of his seances
and gave a sorrowful story; he claimed to be the son of the Governor. Mr.
Hutchinson’s address in London is 8, Upper Bedford-place, W.C.
Form Manifestations. — Next Monday evening, at eight o’clock, the
discussion on “ Form Manifestations ” will be resumed at 38, Great Russell-
street, London. The proceedings will be opened with some remarks upon the
subject by the Rev. W. Stainton Moses, M.A. Members and friends of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, • and of the societies working in
alliance therewith, are entitled to admission to these fortnightly meetings;
other Spiritualists who desire to attend can doubtless obtain invitations on
application to the secretary. We think amply sufficient reasons were brought
forward at the last meeting to do away with the term “ materialisation mani¬
festations,” and to substitute “form manifestations,” unless in exceptional
cases.
May 11, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST. 223
Miss Lottie Fowler, clairvoyant medium, is now in Boston, 13.S.
Her father passed to spirit-life three weeks ago ; his failing health
was the cause of Miss Fowler’s recent departure from England.
Spiritualism in Brighton.—On Sunday evening, Mr. E. W. Wallis,
medium, delivered a trance address at Mr. Snow’s, 18, Atlingworth-
street, Brighton, on u The Initiation and Progress of the Spiritual
Movement.” At the close a collection was made on behalf of the
medium and his work in East London. On another evening Mr. W.
J. Colville delivered his last address in Brighton prior to his departure
on a provincial tour.
Spiritualism in Brixton.—A seance was held by the members of
the Brixton Psychological Society, at the house of Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, 6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton, London, on Friday
night last. The circle was a small one. Seated round a table, the
hands of Mr. Williams, the medium, were held on either side by mem¬
bers, and the gas put out. Instantly the voice known as Peter ad¬
dressed each observer present. Yarious remarkable phenomena took
place, such as the bringing of objects from a distant part of the room,
the taking off of the watches of two gentlemen, and the winding up and
floating of the musical box (a heavy one).
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Mr. T. Blyton writes that Mr. John
Bouse gave at the weekly meeting of the Dalston Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism, on Thursday. evening last week, some
“ Original Headings in Rhyme on Popular Subjects,” obtained through
his own mediumship. Mr. B. Pomeroy Tredwen presided, and said
that the council desired to obtain from individual members of the
Association, narratives of personal experiences. It was therefore a
source of pleasure to have the opportunity of hearing Mr. Rouse read
some of the productions of his mediumship. Mr. Bouse then gave
three readings from his collection, which were listened to with attention.
Inspirational Oration at Brighton.—Last evening, at 14, Sillwood-
road, Mr. W. J; Colville delivered another “ inspirational ” oration
and poem, the subjects being chosen by the audience, which was not
a very large one. Mr. Gill occupied the chair, and after the singing
of a hymn, the company were called upon to choose a theme for the
address. The “ Eastern Question ” was selected, and the “ medium ”
spoke for some time on that subject. A great portion of his remarks
was devoted to considering the justice of war, which he said, was
justifiable only when waged for the purpose-of relieving the oppressed
and overthrowing the tyrant’s yoke, but when waged for the purposes
of aggrandisement and cruelty it was most decidedly wrong. The
present war would not be confined to two nations, but extend to nearly
the whole of Europe. The forthcoming great struggle was a necessary
one, inasmuch as it would have the effect of clearing the political
atmosphere. The Mahommedan rule would ultimately fail, as would
be the case with all nations where there existed a religion not of love
but of the sword. The spirits of departed statesmen, said the “medium,”
debated together in the upper spheres on the affairs of different nations,
and they had a great control over the affairs of those nations; the
“ guides,” which were then controlling the “ medium,” had some know¬
ledge of their debates, and consequently of their opinions as to the war
in the East.—-Brighton Daily Post, May %rd.
Spiritualism in East London.—Last Sunday, at the quarterly
meeting of the East London Spiritualist Institution, managed by Mr. E.
W. Wallis, at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End, about forty Spiritualists
sat down to tea, after which the meeting was resolved into a_conference,
under the presidence of Miss Kislingbury. Miss Keeves, while in the
trance state, opened the proceedings with prayer, after which Mr.
Wallis reported that during the quarter fifty-three meetings of various
kinds had been held on the premises, and that Miss Keeves, Miss
Young, Mr. Colville, Mr. Connor, Mr. Towns, Mr. Morse, Mr. Law¬
rence, Mr. Hawkins, and Mr. Basson were the mediums who had
assisted in the work, under the chairmanship of Mr. Jennison. At the
close of the quarter the receipts had exceeded the expenditure by
£1 9s. 4d. It transpired in the course of the evening that this balance
had been presented to Mr. and Mrs. Wallis, as a very slight token of
recognition of their arduous services; £& 4s. had also been presented
in addition by members and friends of the National Association of
Spiritualists. Mr. Wallis announced that the evening for the weekly
seances would be changed from Wednesday to Thursday. Mr. Parsons,
Miss Keeves, Mr. Bullock, Mr. Pitcher, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr.
Allen, Mr. Cain, and Mr. Jennison made a few remarks, which were
summed up by Miss Kislingbury, after which the proceedings closed.
Trance Mediumshtp.—Mr. T. Blyton, honorary secretary to the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, writes: “ By special
invitation, the members of our council, with a few friends, met at the
Association’s Booms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, on Wednes¬
day evening, last week, to receive Mr. J. William Fletcher, trance test
medium, of Boston, U.S.A. Mr. Fletcher was introduced by Signor
Enrico Bondi to the company, among whom were Mrs. M. Theresa
Wood, Mr. John Bouse, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Blyton,
Mr., Mrs., and Miss Cook, Mrs. R. Pearce, the Misses Corner, and
Madame Curry. At Mr. Fletcher’s request the sitters joined hands,
and he soon passed easily and quietly into the trance condition.
Excellent discourses were delivered through him upon the following
subjects selected by the company, viz.;—1. ‘ The Present Aspect of
Spiritualism from the Standpoint of Spirits.’ 2. ‘ Description and
Experiences of Spirit Life.’ 3. * Is Prayer for Departed Human Souls
Beneficial?’ At the close of the discourses questions, chiefly bearing
upon the question of reincarnation, were dealt with in an able manner,
the controlling power stoutly defending the truth of reincarnation doc¬
trines. The control of the medium then altered, and remarkable tests
of spirit identity were given to most, of those present. A public event
of no small importance was also predicted, of which notes were made,
and which, if realised, will form not the least remarkable feature of the
seance. A cordial vote of thanks to Mr. Fletcher and Signor Bondi
was then carried with acclamation.”
| j THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
jlj At the meeting of the Psychological Society held on Thursday, last
j j week, at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, London, Mr. Serjeant
Kl Cox presided.
h| Mr. F. K. Munton read the minutes of the last meeting, which were
|)| confirmed.
ill | REMARKABLE PERSONAL PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES.
jjj Mr. C. C. Massey read a record of the experiences of a gentleman
||] who did not wish his name to be published, but who, Mr. Massey said,
| j I had held oflicial positions in connection with the government of his own
jn country, and had given as references the names of Mr. B. F. Stevens,
|(| U. S. Despatch Agent, 4, Trafalgar-square, London; Dr. Garth Wilkin-
1 I son; Dr. Wilberforce Smith; and Madame Colmache, 162, Queen’s-
m road, Bayswater, London.
j \ i Some extracts from the narrative are appended:—
ijl THE OBSESSION OF A CHILD.
i j The first incident in my life of a positive and undoubted character
!{ occurred to me when quite a child. I remember it from the terror
i j | which it produced in my imagination; it was of a nature termed by
|)i Swedenborgians “ obsession,’’ but of course at the time I knew nothing
m of such things, as I was but nine or ten years of age. The incident was
| (| this :—My arms, quite against my will, and as though under control of
|) | some mind or spirit distinct from myself, attempted to steal. Hands
I ] i and arms were struggling to reach out and seize the fruit I saw before
! (j me. With all the force of my will I hugged my arms to my body
jjj tightly and went by, this horrid and unaccountable influence still at
jjj work with my arms. If the materialist tells me, “ Oh, you simply saw
i j j that fruit and desired it so much, that, without your own consciousness,
I j j a desire sprang up in your mind so irresistible that you fancied your arms
jjj were going out to do what you were wishing for,’’ I can only interpose
jjj to this a blank denial. I never desired anything that was not my own;
jjj even at that age I would have died sooner than steal.
jji DRAWING AND CLAIRVOYANT POWERS.
Passing by minor things, such as a sudden inspiration to draw (I
i j j never, that I know of, having ever attempted such a thing), and at a
jjj single sitting producing a likeness of my great grandmother, then
jjj ninety-six years of age, so perfect that I have never seen a photograph
jjl to equal it, so minute in all its details that a German artist, who saw it
jji in Paris some few years ago, exclaimed, “This is a perfect Holbein ! ”
jjj —passing this and other immaterial matters by, I come to the follow-
ijj ing:—I was now a grown man; the year somewhere from 1854 to
j j j 1857 ; a bronchial affection troubled me; one night, in a dream or vision,
! j j I was startled by the apparition of an old man of a foreign look and air,
iji who said to me, “ Take /’mentioning the name of a salt of iron,
I j j “ sprinkle it over some oakum, and wear it on your breast and throat! ”
ijj When I awoke I remembered everything perfectly, and was so much
j j j impressed by it that I called on a chemist with whom I had a speaking
jjj acquaintance, and asked him if such a substance, mentioning the name,
j(j was to be had. I should remark that this gentleman was at that time
jjj the first analytical chemist in New York, well known, and of wide re-
jj j putation, named Dr. Chilton. I have now forgotten the name (greatly
jji to my regret) of that salt of iron: I had never heard of it, and was
jj j totally ignorant myself of chemistry, so that on my asking for this sub-
jjj stance Dr. Chilton at once replied, “ There is no such thing. I never
jjj heard of it.” “But,” said I, “can’t there be? Is it chemically im-
jjj possible?” The doctor thought a moment, and then said, “No. I
j j j think it is possible that such a thing might be.” “ Will you then make
jjj me some?” I inquired. To this he would not answer positively, but
j j requested me to call in again in about a week. (I did not tell Dr. Chilton
jjj that I had dreamed this.) When I called again he smiled, and said,
ijj “There’s something very curious about this matter; before attempting
ijj to make it, I thought I would look through my books and see if I could
jjj find it anywhere. I looked through pretty nearly everything I thought
jjj likely to give me any information, but couldn’t find even the word
i j i mentioned—no trace of it—no evidence that such a substance had ever
jjl existed. I had almost given up the idea of looking any further, when I
jjj happened to take down from the shelves an old book with the very
jj j thing, published more than seventy years ago. An old chemist (I think
jjj he said “ German”), in making some experiments, accidentally made
jjj this material, describing it as a yellow powder, and this is the only
iji account of it I was able to find, and the only mention of it made any-
jjj whereto my knowledge. I certainly never heard of it before.” The
ijj doctor promised to make it for me, and I called again and again, but
jji without success, until finally I forgot all about it, and the very name
j j has passed away, greatly to my regret, for this old weakness has never
j | entirely left me. If I knew any way of invoking that good old shade to
jj i appear again I should be glad indeed; but I do not, and my friend, the
jj i doctor, has long since gone to meet him in the spirit land,
j j Apropos of this, I may at some time tell you of a similar thing which
j j happened to Judge Edmonds, and which is true, as I had it from his
j j own lips.
j j PREVISION—FOREWARNING OF DEATH.
jjj On the 1st day of January, 1857, I was in the Indian country in
l( j Kansas. I had been and then was connected with a national organisa-
Ition for the relief of the people against Southern outrages in the effort
to make that territory free soil and a free State. At the time I speak of,
I had started south from Lawrence over the prairies, with two guides, to
search into the condition of the settlers and to give relief. This journey
was afterwards alluded to by a Kansas editor, in these words: ‘‘ His
course over our territory may be tracked as we follow the course of the
spring by its flowers! ” Don’t think me egotistical, I pray you, for this
is not so. When my work was done I retired, seeking neither reward
nor fame. I was in extremely delicate health; it was winter. They
224
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 11, 1877.
lifted me into the saddle, and we started; we had got down into the
Miami Reservation; a snowstorm came on, we were like men at sea :
towards nightfall we brought up at a small log hut inhabited by a poor
family; they had one bushel of corn left in the house, and five little
children. When during the evening I gave the poor woman a twenty-
dollar gold piece she retired to a corner of her little room to hide the
tears of gratitude that had choked her utterance. So limited was the
accommodation that my two friends and myself had to sleep all three in
one bed. In the morning I found an inch thick of snow lying upon our
bed covers, the siftings and driftings of the night through the roof. I
was wide awake and meditating, and my thoughts ran back to my home.
“ To-day,” I said, “ is the first day of the year—New Year’s Day; what
a happy time they’re having there! ” And then at once, in spirit, I was
at New York—just landed at the ferry; I hurried up the street, turned
into this street, then into that, reached my own street, turned the corner,
passed familiar houses, arrived at my own at the garden gate, opened it,
stepped up on to the brown stone step, stepped forward, reached out my
hand to the bell pull to ring, and—Oh, horror! There was black crape
upon the handle of the bell pull. “ Tommy! ” said I, to one of my friends,
“are you awake?” “Yes,” he replied. “Well, then,” I continued,
“ there is death at my house, or someone about to die, for I saw the crape
at the door; ” and then I narrated what I had just described. Many
weeks passed away before I was able to set my face homewards, and
when as far as Cincinnatti, still some twelve hundred miles away, I
received a telegram, “ 31a is at the point of death—make haste ! ” Alas!
I knew only too well that, haste or no haste, all would be the same ; I
should find on my arrival the fatal crape on the door bell. I did hasten,
used every possible exertion, but all to no purpose; I arrived precisely
as “in spirit” I had seen myself do, weeks before, and the same crape
was there just as I had foreseen it. Of course it is easy to say, “ Oh,
you were melancholy; you knew your mother was ill; you were thinking
about her.” Nothing of the kind. I was not expecting or fearing
anything. New Year’s Day in New York is like the “merry Christmas”
over here; everybody goes out visiting; the day is devoted to New Year’s
calls; sleigh bells jingle merrily—all is joyful. What startled me was
crape on the handle of the bell pull. I had never seen such a thing—it
not being the custom—on the window blinds or the knob'of the hall door,
yes, I could have expected it there; but the bell-pull, No ! I could not
anticipate it there. And I saw nothing until my hand, “ in spirit,” was
in the very act of touching the handle. Then I saw it, and shrank back
in horror.
THE SUPPOSED PAINS OP THE DYING.
I remember that there were things before this date. The Rochester
rappings had come up in or about, I think, 1847. Now let me see—-
“ this reminds me ” (as poor Lincoln used to say). Yes, if my record is
to be of any value to the future discoverer of the law of spiritual gravita¬
tion, I ought, I suppose, to go back to the days of mesmerism—say
somewhere in the forties—say from 1840 onwards. Well, there was a
time when first (1834 onwards) phrenology was the rage in New York;
then came mesmerism, and everybody was mesmerising, or attempting
to, every other body; and one and another made their essays on me—
all sorts of people, “red spirits and white, black spirits and gray,” until
I became finally most thoroughly “ bedeviled ” and was compelled to
shun the whole thing. Sitting in “ circles ” convulsed, if it did not
convince me. So also did the presence of the Spiritualist preacher
Harrison, when we got along to “Spiritualism” out of mesmerism.
About 1842-3 we had in New York a celebrated mesmerist named Leroy
Sunderland, publisher of The Magnet. A friend of mine, who did
not believe in mesmerism, one day said to me, “If you’ll go
with me to Sunderland, and he puts you to sleep, I’ll believe
in it, for I know you won’t deceive me.” We went. I was
not put to sleep, for no one ever succeeded with me to this extent,
but I was thrown into such frightful convulsions that my inconsiderate
friend thought me dying, and said afterwards that he never suffered so
in his life, and that he “ could have given five thousand dollars down to
see me safe out of it.” The point I wish to make here is this—Ex¬
ternally, bodily, I was convulsed and seemingly in great agony, and yet
I was not suffering in the least. I felt no pain: within was all serene.
I couple this with another fact to say a word on “ the agonies of death.”
About 1847 we had the great discovery of “letheon,” the name originally
given to the anesthetic “ ether,” but little was known at first of the true
way to administer it: especially the necessity of an admixture of some
portion of air with it. Burdell, the dentist, was an impatient, testy
creature. I was sitting in the dental chair, he administering the letheon;
I did not swoon away quite quick enough to please him, so he pinched
my nose, cut off all the air, and so compelled me to breathe the pure
ether. Naturally, like one drowning, I gasped and choked, and next
door to died. But, “ the delight of dying 1” who can picture it, who can
paint it? Only that one short spasm of the fleeting second, only that
last gasp to catch the fleeting breath, and then the spirit, like a circling
riplet, swells onward and outward, still expanding, still embracing, until,
as I found myself saying to myself, “and now I am approaching the
Infinite! How still it is, how calm, how vast, how tranquil, how de¬
lightful, how sweet to not breathe !”
Coupling together the two facts I have narrated, we can see how mis¬
takenly we may think of “ the death agony;” in most cases the “ death
struggle” is very likely quite unfelt by the dying one: the pain to us is
his glory; awakening once more from the dream sleep of earth; the
soul’s incarnation ; the antithesis; the episode of a spirit’s long journey¬
ing on the highway immortal.
A VISION PRODUCED BY THE WILL-POWER OP A MESMERIST.
I have mentioned how animal magnetism affected me in order to let
this explain whatever it may in my natural organism. At twenty years
of age, on my hair being combed in the dark with a metal comb, waves
of electrical light would appear: this happened frequently. Later
on, as many others did, I could light gas with the tip of my finger on a
j(j dry cold day. Stripping the feather from the pith of a quill, I cut the
|)| pith into small bits which I threw upon the face of some water in a
]} i basin, where they floated. I could then attract any one of these floating
ijj morsels with the end of my finger, and make it follow as a metal magnet
|) | causes a floating metal swan or other thing to follow it. I dare say if
: (I you try the experiment you will see the same result,
j In the year 1838 I was one of a party where the following experiment
i) j was made:—A young woman was placed on a chair, each leg of the
i (I chair resting in a glass tumbler; on her hair being combed with a horn
|) j comb, the electricity of her system was excited so that with a Leyden
l)j jar we collected sufficient electricity to give a regular shock to a circle
Ki composed of perhaps a dozen persons.
j) j I mention these things for any value or bearing they may possibly
|(| have on table lifting, and to say that when about 1842 Dr. Buchanan,
|j of Cincinnati, came to New York with some new facts in physiology or
;) | psychology, I was present at a seance, held at the house of Henry Inman,
i(j the artist (at that time the first American artist). There were present
\(\ Tuckerman the poet, T. Feno Hoffman, the poet and editor, Irving
(nephew of Washington Irving), and I forget who else. In the course
ijj of the evening I was asked to take a seat and submit to Dr. Buchanan’s
* {j experiments. He pressed his fingers upon certain organs of the brain,
i;j and I was asked what I saw. I described, or rather said, “ Beautiful
i j j lights, like the rainbow; prismatic colours.” A paper was now put into
i) j the doctor’s hand by one of the company, by Tuckerman I think I was
j) j afterwards told, and the doctor continued his experiments—“ What do
| you now see?” I hesitated to say, for to me it was nothing extraor-
j i dinary; I always had had imaginings, and I could not think so silly a
j j j thing was what they were looking for, but on being pressed to tell, I
j|| replied—“I see a beautiful park in miniature, and paths in every
j j j direction, and an immense number of little people about three inches
‘ j j j high all dressed out in knee breeches and cocked hats like the old
i \ | knickerbockers!” At this there was a general exclamation of pleasure,
•>| the thing demanded of Doctor Buchanan being that he should, by the
j j i force of his will and imagination, impress this picture on me.
PSYCHOLOGICAL IMPRESSIONS.
jjj I called on Professor Bush one evening, I think in the year 1847 or
|jj 1848. This gentleman had been one of our most learned divines, but
jjj had turned from orthodoxy to the religion of Emanuel Swedenborg ; he
j)j was greatly interested in the Divine Revelations of Andrew Jackson
jjj Davis, and had caused a copy of this work to be sent to me in compli-
j j i ment for a notice I had published in the paper I was then editing. The
j )i professor, after I had been with him awhile, handed me a letter, folded
ijj up, and said, “ I want to make an experiment: please to hold this letter
jjj in your hand and think of nothing; just give yourself up to complete
jjj tranquillity without thought if possible.” I did so, remaining quiet for
| j perhaps ten minutes. On being asked the state of my mind, I was
jjj compelled to say—“Well, really, I don’t see that this amounts to
| j anything; I can’t tell what is in this letter!” He then questioned me
jjj to know if any change in my feelings had taken place—any state of
j! mind different to what I had come in with. “ Oh,” I said, “ as to that,
Ijj I feel very melancholy ; I don’t know if this has anything to do with
j j j your experiment; I thought you wanted me to find out the contents of
j j j the letter.” He said he would have liked it had I been able to do
j j j something of that kind, but that, as far as the experiment had gone, it
jjj was conclusive, for that the letter was from a gentleman labouring
j) I under great mental depression.
j) j Apropos to this: in the year 186- I was American Consul at , in
I j France. One day I received a letter by mail from one whom I had
jjj never before heard of, but who was undoubtedly what he claimed to be
i j —a government officer, and connected with confidential government
jjj matters. As I have said, I had never before heard of this man, and
| j j had never seen him; but my impression of him from holding his letter
)jj in my hand (there was nothing in what he wrote to produce it), was
j \ j that he was a rascal. Years passed on, when one day, here in London,
j j j being at the office of my friend and banker, Mr. , he mentioned the
jjj name of this person, and I believe introduced me to him at that time;
jjj if not then, he did so subsequently. The man was a most sanctimo-
|jj nious, reverend individual, sweet-spoken, amiable, and mild; but I
j j could not forget my impressions, and told them to my friend, but said,
j' j however, that there might be nothing at all in them. I, nevertheless,
jjj advised him to be always on his guard, especially as, after leaving my
j j j post and going to America, I had heard charges made against the man.
jjj The upshot of the matter was, that my friend got “let in” for a good
j j many hundred pounds by his sweet-spoken acquaintance, “ the mildest
jjj mannered man that ever scuttled ship or cut a throat,” so that his
jjj impressions of him are now worse than mine were, if possible.
| j As I have said, mesmerism in America ran finally into Spiritualism;
jjj there were “manifestations,” and “circles,” and “states,” and what
j! not ? and my nervous system had become so upset with being “ pawed
j j j over,” and so forth, that finally I had to break away from the whole of
jjj it. For a long time I was troubled with spasmodic attacks, when my
j) j arms, of themselves, would fly about wildly and turn about like the
j) j arms of a windmill, and only certain persons could come near me ; the
j j j very presence of certain others seeming to make the disturbance of my
j j j nature worse.
ANOTHER CASE OE PREVISION.
i j Sometime during these years, I should say 1854 or 5, I one day
j j threw myself on the sofa, and gave myself up to “impressions,”
jjj endeavouring to loose my individuality and self-hood as much as
j j possible, so far as thought or brain-action was concerned. From some
j j j reading of mine at some time or other I had conceived a great liking to
Jjj the elder Brunei, the celebrated engineer, and constructor of the Thames
jjj tunnel. I was now engaged in an employment in which my mind had
j j j become very much interested, and in connection with mechanical con-
n’i • structions, beams being the speciality just then. On the day in question,
May 11, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
225
as I threw myself on the sofa, and mentally invoked the spirit of my
friend (as I called him), the great and good Mark Isambard Brunei,
asking him to come and solve for me the problem of the beam. Now, I
want you to understand that I had but little faith in this whole business:
it was an experiment purely. I tried to watch mental phenomena.
After some little time I distinctly saw—not a beam, but a bridge. I
was carried “ in spirit’’ along under this bridge, and saw its bellying
ties like cords of fire. I saw it all, and then was wafted back again ;
and when I shook myself out of the “ state,” and thought it over, I said
to myself—“Pshaw! This does not amount to anything: he has not
told me what I want to know: the beam problem seems to me not yet
solved, and I do not care anything about bridges. Why show me a
bridge ? I don’t want to make bridgesand I felt somewhat vexed.
I may say, however, in passing, that I went to work and constructed
several beams substantially upon this principle, for the late A. T.
Stewart, and put them in a floor of his warehouse, corner of Broadway
and Chamber-street, New York, where (as far as I know) they remain
to this day. That I made the beams, however, from any new light
received in the “ passive state ” I very much doubt; my reflections had,
I think, led me up to this by the time I invoked the shade. What
vexed me was to have a bridge shown me that I cared nothing about,
instead of something more in the nature of a beam, though, to be sure, a
bridge is indeed a beam of enormous proportions. But here is the
sequel, and a strange one, too, viewed even as only a “coincidence.”
Some ten or eleven years later on I had occasion to go into Cornwall,
over the Great Western Railway. I had never heard of the Saltash
bridge, and my first sight of it was startling, for in it I caught a glimpse
of what I had seen in “ the passive state ’’ years before. My fellow-
passenger in the car said—“ Stop a bit; wait until we get over: there’s
a turn in the road where you’ll get a perfect view of it.” And so it came
to pass, filling me with inexpressible delight and amazement, for there,
sure enough, was the very bridge itself—my vision-bridge! But, if this
amazed me, much more was I bewildered when, on asking the name of
the engineer, I was told “ Brunei.” Now this bridge, by an inscriptiou
upon it, seems to have been completed in 1859, so that it appears to be
a reasonable supposition that the mind of I. K. Brunei (son of “ my
friend”) was actually at work upon this very scheme at the time I was
seeking to become en rapport with the shade of his great father. I lean
to the opinion that all this was coincidence, but still very curious.
INFORMATION ABOUT THE FUTURE—CLAIRAUDIENCE.
The circumstances attending the extension of my patent in the year
1859, to which I made allusion in my first letter, were as follows:—Mr.
Bishop, the Commissioner of Patents, who held the life or death of patents
in his hands, had, according to the wretched system of my country, been
“ rewarded” politically for his treachery (as it appeared to his political
opponents) to his constituents, to freedom and the North, by the gift of this
office, James Buchanan being then our “ dough-face” president. As I have
already said, I had been connected with movements to make Kansas a
free State. As a matter of fact I had, seemingly, about ruined myself
in this business; the daily statements in the papers of Kansas outrages
of burnings, murders, and kindred villainies, all perpetrated by the
South to spread slavery, and connived at by the general Government.
All these things every day repeated were more than I could stand. I
began by contributing what means I could, and ended by contributing
myself, leaving a growing business to hands less competent than my
own, and dividing it up; so what with a diminished interest and a less
productive business, complicated by a series of misadventures, all con¬
nected with and growing out of my Kansas sympathies and philan¬
thropic patriotism, my affairs had gone badly enough. I had contri¬
buted in “cash money” some 6,000 dols., and indirectly more, had
travelled many thousands, I might almost say many tens of thousands
of miles, over the Union on the railroad at my own cost. I may say in
a word that to make Kansas a free state my efforts first and last
resulted in a loss or cost to me of not less than 100,000 dols., so that at
the time I speak of, 1859, my whole future appeared to hang upon being
able to get my patent extended; without this I was ruined; all
my property mortgaged, and things generally in a bad way. Add
to this I was in a wretched state of health, a state that you may form some
faint idea of when I tell you that I journeyed for days at that period,
day after day, and all night and all day continuously, no break at all,
living in fact on the railroad, and subsisting absolutely on little else
than a few lumps of white sugar, moistened by a few drops of brandy.
Such was my bodily and such my pecuniary condition at the time I
speak of. The constituents of Mr. Bishop had voted him out of Con¬
gress because of his vote in it to make Kansas a Slave State. Mr.
Buchanan had rewarded his perfidy (as it was called) by the office of
Commissioner of Patents. John Broion was about to be hung in Virginia,
and I was the friend of John Brown. The New York Tribune had
been filled with my “ Kansas shriekings,” all the country knew of
them. The men in New York, whose interest it was to prevent the
extension of my patent knew all this, and were smart enough to use any
weapons to defeat me. Moreover, I felt that Washington was not a
very safe place for such a friend of John Brown as I was, to be in.
When I tell you that I walked my chamber as if with tons weight upon
my head, sinking me into the earth, literally and really dying, under a
despair of spirit such as I had never before experienced, you will know
what I mean; and I was now saying “ shall I go to Connecticut! Shall
I go to Washington? Do I dare to?” Mr. Bishop’s home was in
Connecticut, and I thought to gain the influence of certain of his friends
by going there.
While ruminating on these things, weary with my sad thoughts and
solitary pacings of the floor, I sat down. In an instant, clear and dis¬
tinct like a voice, never heard by me before, I heard, “ Your patent
shall be extended! ” I was not moved, I was not startled; despair had
taken too deep a hold of me, and I did not believe it; I did not believe I
heard a voice; I challenged it, I doubted it, and said, “ It’s my own
i j imagination!” But the voice took no notice of all this, but simply
)\ kept on repeating like the mechanical strokes of a hammer,
| | stroke after stroke, as many strokes as were necessary to force an
11 j entrance where entrance seemed to be denied. And so the voice
(| repeated and repeated until I had counted nine. By this time my
i (| lethargy had in part, at least, become subdued. I had enough belief
| K awakened to be willing to ask a question. I wanted to ask, “ Shall I
In accomplish my purpose by going to Connecticut?” I had got (men-
| (j tally) as far as the one word “ Shall,” when the voice as clearly as
I I||( before said, “ Go to Connecticut if you like; it will amount to no more
than if you remain in this room.” When my mind reverted to Wash-
] ington wishing to ask the two-fold question, “ Shall I be safe from the
| clutches of Governor Wise if I go to Washington; and shall I be able
| to help on my case by being there personally,” and as before I had only
| reached the opening word, and was stopped by the reply as quick as
| lightning, jf Go to Washington if it pleases you; no harm will happen
to you, and you will do no good; the result will be the same as though
| you stay here.” And then the Presence seemed to leave me, giving
| me only the faintest evanescent glance of a whiteness, equalled only by
that “raiment shining, exceeding white as snow, so that no fuller on
| earth can white them.” And all was over! The vision departed, and I
was alone, not knowing whether indeed I had seen a vision, or had been
| only talking with myself. So I arose, and “ shook myself as I was
| wont,” and strode my apartment again; and protested to myself
j valiantly that I would not be “ the victim of my own imagination.” But
j where were the tons weight ? Ah! here was indeed a mystery. I said,
| “ I don’t believe there’s anything in this. I’m afraid there isn’t." Oh,
doubting heart! And yet, strange to say, all the load, the crushing
load, the load that had been killing me, was all gone, nothing of it
| whatever remaining. This I could not deny. So I went to Connecticut,
| and, as the voice had foretold, accomplished nothing; I might as well
j have sat still in my own room. And I also went to Washington with a
like result; no harm happened to me, and my presence there changed
| nothing; I could as well have remained at home. My patent was
j extended, and so strongly did the commissioner, whom I had so
much feared as a political enemy, speak in my behalf, saying
| “the records of invention shew scarcely another instance of a man
battling through such difficulties, and compelling the public to adopt
: ^! his invention! ” that my opponents, crestfallen at the result, at once
said, “ Oh, wrote the Commissioner’s opinion, and he merely put
his name to it! ” And yet I had never seen Mr. Bishop, nor indeed
have I to this day.
The events here spoken of happened in the fall of 1859, or possibly
late in the summer. On the 5th of December following “ Plantation
Mason,” of Virginia (whom you probably know of as “Mason and
Slidell”), brought in his resolution to send for persons and papers im¬
plicated in conspiring with John Brown against the Union. Among
others I was summoned; I intended to appear before the “Investigating
Committee; ” but when I learned that the whole thing was unconstitu¬
tional, I determined, like Hampton, to make a stand on principle,
|| though in truth I had nothing to tell. The story is too long to go into
(j now, and might not interest you either; enough that it ended with my
! | incarceration in Washington jail for thirteen weeks and three days—
March to June. To find myself alone for the first time in my life in a
I jail, and at night-fall! the grating of the key in the lock of the cell;
) | the echoes of the departing feet of friends, who up to this hour were
i able to be with me; to feel in a way I had never felt before—cutoff
(| from the world! I did not know what to make of it; I seemed to have
| suddenly awakened in a new world, and a horrible one. To say that for a
11 brief space, for a moment, there was a sinking of heart is to confess the
j truth, and a welling up into the eyes, and the fall of a tear! Weakness
H to be sure, but human; just then, however, the voice (for the second
u time) spoke out distinctly and clearly; it seemed like a voice falling
| i down from a distant height, and it said to me in tones of seeming firm-
ness, “ Stand thou still, and see the salvation of God! ” and then I knew
(i that my business was to “wait.” And so when my great and good
(I friend, Charles Sumner—“name ever honoured, ever dear ”—urged me
|| to come out on habeas corpus I refused, and staid until “ ordered ” out
u —making war upon slavery as I found it in the national slave pen with
(I more effect than I had ever been able to do when out of it. I had been
)j in “ the pen” some weeks when I again heard the voice, seemingly
(i from its tone, not the same I had heard—a voice so wonderful in its
>j sweet deep calmness that I may say never before and never since have
) | I heard its like, nor do I ever expect to until I shall have returned again
(| to the blest land from whence I came before my condemnation to this
) | incarnation of sad earth-life! A friend had obtained permission to pass
(i the night in my cell with me, the midnight hour had sounded, I had
(l lain down on the sofa—(I had before this time furnished the place com-
;j fortably: the “cell’’ being a fair-sized room)—my friend sat reading to
(i himself near me: how many minutes I had slept I can’t say, but not
\| long, for the sound of this wonderful voice awoke me, and I said, “Did
>| you speak, Ingalls?” “No!” “Did you hear any one?” “No!”
(j “ Was there no voice, no sound here?” “ No, none,” was the reply.
1“ Then,” said I, “ the voice has spoken again—and such a voice! such
intonation!—‘ God loill avenge you, my child! ’ ’’ These were the words
I heard: so passionless, so deep, so calm! But I knew not what they
meant then, nor could I then apply them. But when later on the day
and the hour came that Mr. Mason entered the gloom of Port Lafayette,
I, and tasted not merely the restraints of captivity, but the forebodings,
for a time at least, of a felon’s death and doom, I thought I saw some
little of what might, without much straining, be considered to be a fair
“ avengement; ” and when later on still, with Sherman’s army
“ marching to the sea,” and Grant’s army tightening the grip around
them, the whole dark Moloch Power crumbled and fell in ruin, and the
fetters of the bondmen fell from their hands, and four millions of voices
sent up their one great cry of “ Glory to God! ” I then again thought
I that I might fairly say and thus, and thus, even thus hath the prophecy
226
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat 11, 1877.
been fulfilled. Some may not see this as I do. But no matter, the
facts stand all the same.
But I heard more of the voice at La Rochelle than I had ever heard
before or since. I was at this place from the fall of ’61 until ’65. I
have already told you how the voice spoke up quite unexpectedly late
one night just as I had got into bed, and as my head was in the act of
touching the pillow. This manifestation was particularly distinct and
outside of me; very often it seemed to reproduce my own thoughts, which
caused me to doubt, but this was unmistakable. Now, if the aunt of
whom this was spoken had been a particularly affectionate aunt, or I
had ever been much with her, or had occasion to think of her more
than of twenty other relatives and friends, there might be some pretence
for attempting to account for it by some links of thought; but I never
even corresponded with this aunt—had never written her a line in my
life. She was my aunt, and that was all. I don’t think I even knew
that she had been ill. I had, when leaving America, given my agent
instructions to see to her, and from that hour had never had an anxious
thought about her. At this particular time, too, all my thoughts were
taken up with invention, discoveries; on that day, all that day, down
into the night, I had been intensely occupied and absorbed with experi¬
ments, and had absolutely thought of nothing but my experiments.
Tired out, by twelve at night I had put out my light in the room where
I had been all day “ hard at it,” not thinking, but working, smoking
hard and fast, and earnestly too, so that I was in no state of abstraction,
or dreaminess, or any thing of the kind; I had all my five senses
about me, and “ a level head ” into the bargain, and the
sudden breaking out of this voice took me as much by surprise as any
body else would be at being unexpectedly spoken to in the midst of a
dead silence, for my wife had gone to bed some two hours before, and I
stole in quietly and had just got into mine, placed in an alcove of the
room facing hers; so that a midnight calm prevailed, and I, being tired,
was hurrying to get into bed and asleep as fast as possible. I must tell
you frankly that I did not like the message, and did not want to believe
it—“ where you will soon be” even though “ in glory,” I did not relish
•a bit. I tried to think it was my own imagination, but on saying “ but
what do you mean by 1 soon V ” I got the reply, “ Don’t trouble yourself
about this; ‘ soon ’ with us may mean * long ’ with you; and soon with
you may mean long with us!” “Ah,” said I to myself, “that is
just like the old oracles; it may mean anything!” and with this crumb
of comfort I went off to sleep, and thought no more about it until when
at nine o’clock the next morning, the postman’s arrival brought me a
New York letter, and having read it nearly through I came to these
words—“ Oh, by the way—I've just heard of the death of your aunt!"
To say that I was startled does not exactly express it. I cast my eye
quickly to the head of the letter—“ \Qth /’’—very close on the time.
“ The voice said she died on the seventh,'' I said to my wife somewhat
gravely; “ now if I find out that she did not die on the seventh, I’m
not going to believe this!” I never got fully satisfied about the matter
until I reached America myself, and learned from my cousin (daughter
of the aunt who died), that she had “ died on the tenth," but she put in
the disagreeable qualification, “ but, Thaddeus, mother was struck with
death on the seventh !" Whether she had heard anything of what my
voice had told me I can’t say.
CHANGE OP CHARACTER IN THE SPIRIT WORLD.
When a young man I had read something—very little—of the writings
of Swedenborg. He had spoken of the impossibility of any change of
character in the spirit world. I could not accept such doctrine: my
views were running along in the line of infinite progression and perfec¬
tion—“onward! and ever onward! shalt thou fling eternity around
thee!” I never did accept Swedenborg’s notion, in fact scouted it.
Walking alone in my garden at La Rochelle one day, about the time,
I think, of the occurrence last narrated, my thoughts, of course, on my
inventions, or flying, or something of that kind, the voice spoke up with
its accustomed abruptness, and gave me a regular sermon. I was
amazed—could hardly think it was real—but the things told me were so
totally foreign to my own notions, theories, and opinions, that I knew
not what to make of it. I did not take note at the time of its complete
concurrence with Swedenborg’s doctrine, neither did I think in any wise
of Swedenborg, nor do I remember more of what was said than the
general purport and the things that startled me ; but the discourse was
long, so long indeed, that I finally wearied of it, and said, “ Well, this
is enough for to-day; come again at another time!” I have always
regretted this, for it almost seems as if this may have had something to
do with the infrequency of those visits since then. The pith of the dis¬
course was to this effect—that the spiritual body is composed of, or made
up, by deposits of human thought in a manner as the human material
body is by human food: that the spiritual organism takes in thought
and digests it, and passes it into the circulation of the spiritual system,
so that it becomes a part of it, just as the material organism appropriates
food, and makes it a part of its body: that hence the thoughts of the
heart go to construct the immortal body—enter into it—become it; then
with great earnestness and solemnity the voice said to me, “ and I warn
you how you indulge in thoughts that are evil. The evil things which
you accept and love, like the food of the body, are digested by the
stomach of the spirit and become a portion of that spiritual body which
does not change so easily as you imagine—in fact, is difficult to change
at all; it is a dangerous and a dreadful thing to build it up out of evil r
I am sorry I did not take a note of this at the time, as I am not able
now to do justice to the language employed. The impression made
upon me at the time has remained ever since, and been, I hope, not
without its effect. I do certainly fear to enter into the eternal state with
a spirit body made up out of evil thoughts. “ It may not be as easy as
you think for, to get rid of it,” has never ceased to ring in my ears.
A VISION.
We were living at Passy on the Place de la Maine in or about the
year 1866, I had been a great sufferer with tooth-ache; to not dis-
iturb my wife by my pain I had gone to the far apartment of the suite
looking out on another street, and was here quite alone. For a very
long time I had regularly provided at my bed-side a narcotic for this
tooth—laudanum and oil of cloves—a drop of which would give me
ease. I may tell you in passing that my physician here, Dr. Wilber-
force Smith, says the homeopathic doses he gives to me, whenever I
have occasion for his services, are in strength such only as he gives
to children; that he never saw any grown person affected by such
small doses. The night I am speaking of, on going to bed, I had felt
that if 1 could only pray with sufficient “ faith,” I ought to be able to
pray this pain away, and I had the sudden thought that the absolute
and final cause and origin of all pain lay back of all bodily and ma¬
terial phenomena in the spirit itself, and that as the centurion said to
Christ, “ only command, Lord,” so if God would but speak the word,
He the Spirit commanding the evil of mine, it would leave me ; with
these sentiments in my heart, and this prayer on my lips, I dropped
off to sleep. Early in the morning hour I was awakened by a bril¬
liant light in my room ; the idea of its being the sun first occurred to
me ; then I said, no ; this is the spiritual light, just what I have seen
before so many times, I cannot be mistaken; I will not open my eyes
to dispel it, but watch and see what comes of it. Upon the ceiling
there were lights and shadows dancing clearly and distinctly, the
light precisely as though reflected upwards from a stove or furnace
from the top of which a lid of one of the holes had been removed ; I
never saw anything more natural in my life ; then at the side I saw up
in the wall at the angle with the ceiling, two ranges of coloured tiles,
one above the other, the whole length of the room; all these like doors
on hinges opened and shut continually, and heads and faces, and hands
\[\ and arms, and I can’t tell what and what not, all kept going in and
j | i out, bobbing here and there, as though a thousand people or more
i 11 were rushing and tearing about; and then a sudden spirting out from
| (i my jaw of a spirit fountain, a stream about as large as my little finger,
i i so it appeared to me, and a voice which said “ Behold the evil tohich has
| i afflicted you / it is now leaving you, and your trouble is ended.” And
i! | even as the voice spoke so all was ended; there were no more “ mani-
i|| testations!” I opened my eyes; it was still early morning, before
ji the sun. But I still doubted and feared, and when night came on
] (i again, and I went to my room, I took with me the same remedy to be
I} j ready in case of need. I forgot to say that the pain would come on an
I | hour or so after I had been in bed, and awaken me. I had prayed the
i 11 previous night on going to bed that this thing might be ordered out of
|) i my spirit, so I had not been awakened that night by the pain, and not
i 11 until the occurrence narrated—at least this is my present recollection ;
| ji I will not say so positively. However, the following, and for eight
j ji nights in succession, I regularly provided myself with the remedy at
\l\ my bed-side, fearful of returning pain. But it came not, and then I
! ji ceased to look for it.
A PROPHETIC DREAM.
General Grant is called “the Silent.” No one knew or could
!>| guess whom he intended to nominate for Secretary of the Treasury,
j (; At four o’clock on the morning of the day when (as events proved) the
ijj name was to be announced to the country by telegraph from Wash-
m ington, I being in New Fork, I awoke my wife and said, “ A. T.
i (i Stewart is to be Secretary of the Treasury! " I dreamed it. And
| |j then, as always, I gave the matter no further thought. At two o’clock
i /1 in the day, riding down Broadway in an omnibus, I saw a great crowd
i (j gathered about some kind of a placard at the corner of a street.
|) | On inquiring the cause, the news ran through me like an electric shock-—
“ A. T. Stewart has been nominated Secretary of the Treasury! ” This
j j is the quickest fulfilment of any of my prophecies.
j (| WAS IT A PSYCHOLOGICAL FOREWARNING ?
My works in London were for a time in temporary quarters in Charles-
i street, Drury-lane, in what had formerly been a blacksmith’s shop.
|! j Circumstances had kept me away for some little time, and one afternoon,
I only a few weeks ago, I was hurrying there. I had turned out of
(j Hoi born into Newton-street, and was, perhaps, a third of the way
(; towards Charles-street, when I was brought to a sudden and immediate
11 standstill; I could go no farther. I reflected on the matter tohy it was
(i so, and was only able to say to myself, “ I can’t tell why it is, but it
I seems very disagreeable to me to go there. I do not want to go, and I
can’t tell why ; I never felt so before, and, as far as I know, there is no
cause for it now.” And then I thought over the things that could
| make it necessary for me to go, and, finding none, turned away and
I went in a different direction. Between eleven and twelve the next
morning the roof fell in, just exactly covering the spot where my men
always worked when there; two of them had left only five minutes
before, or they would have been certainly killed, and the other I had
| employed at the new building in Farringdon-road. It is not necessary
to speculate here as to what might have occurred to me had I gone in
I that evening, making perhaps conditions to bring me there again
between eleven and twelve the next morning. It is enough that during
eighteen months I had been going back and forth to this place, and
never once had experienced anything like this, and, externally, there
was no cause; the idea that the building was unsafe had never entered
my mind ; no one thought of it, that I am aware of.
I had intended to tell of some things which have happened to me
because I failed to pay attention to the voices, but this narrative is
already out of proportion to its worth, and I must bring it to a close
with one or two additional facts.
CIRCUMSTANCES CONNECTED WITH THE DEATH OF HORACE GREELEY,
In the month of November four years ago I was on the ocean, going
to New York, within, say, some two hundred miles of Sandy Hook.
Only a short time before I had parted with my friend Horace Greeley ;
he was not well, I knew; in great dejection of spirits indeed, but I had
no thoughts of his dying. I had been nearly two weeks on the ocean,
and during this timfe my friend had entered the spirit world. Now you
May 11, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
227
must know that it is believed that a spirit who seeks to make himself
known invariably announces himself by the familiar thing, trade,
vocation, habit, some mark by which we have known it in life by
association or otherwise. Keep this in mind. My friend was a
journalist—“the foremost journalist in America.’’ I ought also to tell
you, for an understanding of what is to follow, that my old friend Dr.
Huttner had died two years or so previously in my house here ; he was
excessively devoted to Spiritualism, promised faithfully to visit me
if possible. It has evidently been impossible, for he has not appeared
to this day. Well, at between three and four in the morning of the day
in question, lying in my berth, wide awake, eyes closed, I saw the spirit
lights ; but always challenging, never suffering myself to be deceived, I
said, “Perhaps it is the reflection of the light out in the lobby.” So 1
covered my eyes with my hands in a way to exclude every ray of light
were there enough to get in, but there was not. I saw the lights plain
enough, and figures dimly ; all my vision appeared to be with the right
eye only, and through an orifice no larger than a pea—hence circum¬
scribed ; a great effort, seemingly, was being made to show me some¬
thing or some one ; a large bald head rose up and crossed my line of
sight; the bald head I could see, the features were not distinct; a mass
of phosphorescent light about the size of one’s fist seemed to be held by
some one in a position purposely to illuminate this head, still I failed to
recognise the face. Then hands or claws, or some sort of energy,
appeared to work away at the little orifice of my eye, endeavouring to
enlarge it, but all to no purpose. The head was raised and lowered
several times, and then all vanished away. I then fell asleep and
dreamed. I saw an opened quarto, beautifully printed, large clear
letters, an ornamental heading of flowers, and the words “The other
Life,” and then, reading right along the article, began—“ Friends in the
starry spaces are not separated from one another by such long distances
as they are in this life ” and then to my sorrow I awoke, the other entire
page unread. That morning, at about eleven o’clock, I sat down and
wrote the whole of this in a letter to my wife, and I said, “ I suppose it
must be the doctor who tried to appear to me, and yet it did not seem
to be his head! I can’t make it out; I don’t know whose head it can
be! ” But when our vessel touched the dock I soon found out “ whose
head it can be.” Had my friends in the other life only succeeded in
their efforts and torn away that film from my eyes I should have seen
clearly enough. This is all that any of us need. Death will do it for us
effectually, and not till death for the most of us ; and then we shall
wonder at our earth-stupidity in ever imagining the things of time and
sense to be the only real and the true. The most real and seemingly
substantial things I have ever seen are those that have come to me out
of the spirit life. I did mean to tell you my strange experience, running
through years, having reference to the problem of flight; how in all
places, both in France and America, whenever my thoughts were more
than usually intent on this subject, I would see, on looking up—a dragon
fly! But space and time fail. Farewell.
The discussion upon this paper was adjourned until the next meeting.
HEBEDITARY CHARACTERISTICS.
The adjourned discussion upon Mr. Harris’s paper on the above
subject was resumed under the presidency of Mr. F. K. Munton, who
said that the adjournment of the discussion had proved that evening to
be a mistake, as the author was not present to listen to what was said,
and the majority of the listeners had not been at the meeting when
the paper was read ; these difficulties would have to be considered by
the Council. He (Mr. Munton) thought that there was no such thing
as the hereditary transmission of endowments and properties.
Mr. Gordon thought the paper to be full of generalities and common
places. He objected to the manner of Mr. Harris’s paper rather than
to the questions which the author intended to raise.
Mr. Rawlinson pointed out that for three generations in the Weat-
macott family there had been a hereditary transmission of good taste,
nearly all the members of the family being distinguished for their
proficiency in the fine arts.
The Rev. Mr. Mayhew thought that the fact that physical charac¬
teristics descended to some extent from parents to children, indicated
that there was likewise a transmission of mental qualities, since the
features to some extent signified externally an internal mental and
spiritual state.
The proceedings then closed.
CANON GILBERT ON SPIRITUALISM.
Last Sunday morning the Very Rev. Canon Gilbert, D.D., delivered
the second of his fortnightly sermons on Spiritualism, at the Roman
Catholic Church of St. Mary’s, Moorfields, London. There was a large
congregation, the church being quite full.
Canon Gilbert took for his text the narrative about the setting of
food before the idol Bel, which food the idol was supposed to eat during
the night. Daniel, to test the matter, strewed ashes over the floor of
the temple, and pointed out to the king next morning the footmarks
of the priests, their wives and their children, indicating who had really
eaten the food, whereupon the king ordered the culprits to be destroyed.
The rev. speaker stated that in this instance the prophet Daniel
tested the phenomena alleged to be produced in the presence of the
priests of Bel, and exposed the imposture, with the result that the
men, women, and children connected with the temple were destroyed.
He then went on to speak of divining rods, saying that they had been
used by magicians, miners, and superstitious people in all ages, and
their action in modern times had been ascribed to spirits, to odic
force, and to the devil. Mr. A. R. Wallace had, in his book, expressed
his opinion that in some cases their action was real and useful. He
(Canon Gilbert) had tried many experiments with them, and had come
to the conclusion that their movements were produced by unconscious
muscular action ; but as such rods had sometimes been used for the
most wicked purposes, he warned his flock to have nothing to do with
Ii them except when experimentally inquiring into truth. Table-turning
was another wicked and mischievous superstition, and the facts had
I been ascribed to spirits, to the devil, and to odic force; he had made
! experiments in this matter also, and had come to the conclusion
that the results were due to unconscious muscular action. He
| then described the planchette and the method of using it, say¬
ing that in this case also the results had been ascribed to spirits,
to odic force, and to the Devil, and in America it had been so much used
by tricksters that ecclesiastics in that country had prohibited their
flocks from having anything to do with it. He (Canon Gilbert) and
his three brethren now sitting at the altar had made experiments with
the planchette, which wrote freely beneath the hand of one of them,
and had discovered that any answer they wanted would be written,
supposing the operator to be nervous or excitable ; but if, on the other
I hand, his mind was abstracted from the desired answer, he could not
write a word. He thought this to be due to involuntary muscular
action, and that if a person were so uneducated as to be unable to write
one word, the planchette would produce nothing in his hands. There
was another instrument called “planchette outdone,” in which a ball
hanging at the end of a thread swung in the direction of letters and
words on a board. If the operator did not look at the board, the ball
would not point to the right word ; for instance, if they then asked the
| age of a certain lady, the ball was liable to point to “ Wednesday” or
| “ Friday.” (Laughter.) Mr. Eglinton had refused to give him any
more seances, saying that a hundred sittings with him (Canon Gilbert)
would be waste of time, and with this he (the speaker) fully agreed.
(Laughter.) He then described the experiment which The Spiritualist
newspaper proposed that he should make with the Lourdes water, and
added that the proposed attempt was not identical, parallel, or
analogous to the experiment with Mr. Eglinton. The latter professed
to produce manifestations of the most wonderful kind, whereas he
(Canon Gilbert) had never produced a single cure by Lourdes water,
i and that was difference number one between the two cases. Spirit¬
ualists said that Mr. Eglinton stated that he possessed the said powers,
whereas he (Canon Gilbert) had never said that he could cure any
disease by Lourdes water, and that was difference number two. Mr.
I Eglinton took money from the public, but he (Canon Gilbert) had
i never in his life received anything for attempting to produce a
cure by Lourdes water, so with all respect to the editor of
The Spiritualist he considered the cases were not analogous, identical,
or parallel, but the very opposite. He then read the paragraph from
| The Spiritualist, advising his flock to form circles in their own homes,
Ii and to obtain the manifestations themselves with no Spiritualist
i present, but he added that instead of one in three such circles being
successful, his experience was that not one in a hundred would be
likely to obtain results. He then described several seances got up
among themselves by his private friends, at which certain things
occurred, some of which he said he produced himself in order to con¬
vince those present how easily they could be misled in such matters ;
an M.A. of Oxford, and several influential persons were among the
i sitters. Professor Schiff, of Florence, had proved that the raps could
| be made by the tension of a tendon near the ankle, and some time ago
a relative of the Fox family testified before magistrates, that the raps
of the Fox sisters were so produced ; further, his listeners ought to be
aware that nothing was so delusive as the direction from which sounds
were supposed to come, especially in the dark. Considering, then, how
j easily observers might be misled, he would say to the Spiritualists who
| were present—to Spiritualists who were sensible, intelligent, good,
| practical people, except where they had a strong bias—could they
accept such evidence, depending largely upon faith and sympathy, as
satisfactory in any other branch of life ? The prophets of old sub-
| mitted their phenomena to the most rigid tests; when the prophets
| of Baal defied the power of Elias, he erected an altar in the noon-day
sun, and had the wood thereupon soaked again and again with water,
after which fire came down from above and ignited the pile. Want
of “sympathy,” want of “conditions,” did not affect the results. If
his hearers would weigh these things they would become less ardent
| Spiritualists than they were at present. To those who were not
| Spiritualists he would say that, except in the spirit of inquiry and
of testing the truth, they had better have nothing to do with Spirit-
! ualism ; it tended to superstition, and in one case within his knowledge,
j i it had encouraged people to impute crimes to innocent persons. On
11 Whit-Sunday he purposed to show how very different the miracles
ji of the Catholic Church, and the method of testing them, were from
ji those of Spiritualism.
(Eortesponuence.
) | \Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
) j copies should he kept by the writers.}
SPECTRES OP ANIMALS.
Sir,—I send you a case of this description, which may be of interest
to your correspondents who have been recently writing to you on the
subject. It is from the work of the learned Dr. Henry More on The
Immortality of the Soul.
“ This person, I say, of so extraordinary an integrity, and of a judg¬
ment as unquestionable as his veracity, told this to myself and many
others for the most certain truth—that a horse which he left at home
met him, to his thinking, as he was returning thither after some days’
absence, in a ground some miles distance from his own house, and that
he knew him to be his, bating that, as he came nearer, he seemed to be
overcast, or at least tinctured up and down, with a fiery and a shining
hue or brightness. Which, when he much wondered at, he understood
at his coming home that his horse dy’d the very same hour that this
igneous sort of gelding appeared to him in his perfect shape.”
Temple. C, C. M.
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 11,1877.
ANOTHER HAUNTED PIOUSE. j,
Youk reprint of my letters to the editor of The Morning j!
Post put me in communication with several gentlemen of jj
such undoubted position and repectability, that, although I ji
have always been very sceptical with regard to psychology— | j
if that mean the same thing as the u Spiritualism ” of to-day i
—I must confess their experiences added to my^ own (you see I j
am a disciple of St. Thomas) have, in a certain degree, pro- j
selytised me. j
Lord Lytton, too, has had something to do with my part- j
conversion, for in many of his admirable works it is easy to |
trace that he has had experiences, from time to time, of j
such a nature as to establish in his master-mind a certain
amount of curiosity, at least, with regard to Spiritualism. !
One passage from his Strange Story I venture to quote, j
“ Lord Bacon,” says he, ft were he now living, would be the j
man to solve the mysteries that branch out of mesmerism, j
or (so-called) spiritual manifestations, for he would not j
pretend to despise their phenomena for fear of hurting his | (
reputation for good sense.” But my present object is not to I
excuse or confirm my belief in ghosts, but to record one more j
psychological fact which happened in the house of a gentle- j
man residing for some years near Oxford.
Mr.    was one night somewhat alarmed by hearing a !
knocking at his bedroom door, which was at the foot of his | (
bed, on the right hand side. He, thinking it was his father j (
who wanted him for some purpose or other, aroused himself, j |
and answering “I am coming” (or something to the like |
purpose), was about to spring from his bed in order to unlock j
the door, when the visitor, whoever he was, saved him !
the trouble by opening it for himself, locking it again j
politely, crossed the room, opened an outer door, which was j
also locked, and passed out, again locking up as before.
Ho form was visible; but the noises made by the interloper j
were sufficient to call the attention of several of the inmates, I (
for this persevering walker continued his rounds nightly j
through the aforesaid bedroom and other rooms, for the
space of several years; and, peculiarly, he was a most j
punctual and early riser, for 2.40 a.m. was the hour of his j
usual round.
A brother of Mr. , a clergyman, one night volunteered j
to sit up and watch for the itinerant delinquent, and he did j j
so. In due time exactly, the door began to open. The j !
parson rushed towards it to catch at it as it opened; but it j j
was immediately drawn to and locked before him. A | I
gentleman, who had accompanied the priest in his watchings, j j
was so overpowered with astonishment that he could not j|j
attempt to follow up the adventure. The parson prayed,
and then, being refreshed in spirit, endeavoured to follow | j
the wanderer, but he was noiseless, and nowhere to be found, j j
Later on, numerous were the witnesses of this extraordinary j |
visitation. At length some of the inmates were taken ill, j |
and a nurse, or attendant of some kind, was engaged to wait ! d
upon them; but she was previously interrogated as to
whether she feared “ghosts.” She replied that she did not j j
fear them in the least; but, poor old lady, she was so dis- jj
turbed on so many occasions by the above-mentioned noises, j j
&c., that she had to “give up the ghost” by threatening to j |
depart—not this life—but from the house, unless she had a j j
trustworthy companion during the nights.
Peace and quietness were at length restored for ten years, j j
but at the expiration of that period the visitor came again jjl
at all and any times, but not soberly and regularly as before, j j
The family then quietly gave possession to the unknown, j j
and set up house elsewhere and far away. The house is jj]
now let in flats, the “haunted ” parts being tenantless and jji
locked up. E. G. j) j
May 2nd, 1877. j | i
M. Leymaiue, editor of the Revue Spirite, has been on a visit to Brussels, I j
where he has given an address to the National Association of Spiritualists ] j I
of Belgium. . ](j
Theological blunders are sometimes peculiarly unfortunate. Two ijj
ladies were recently at a dinner party. The husband of one was dead, j (|
and the spouse of the other was in India. The wrong one leaned on the i j j
arm of a gentleman who was leading her to the feast. She remarked ijj
that it was very hot. “Yes,” he replied, hoping to make himself jjj
agreeable “ but not half as hot as the place to which your husband has jlj
gone.” He discovered too late that he was talking to the lady whose j i
husband was dead. ij j
ijtoetrg.
DESOLATION.
Wake, wake, 0 Harp,
Pour forth thy mournful strain—
Wake, golden strings,
To a by-gone note of pain:
Murmur in heedless ears
The sorrows of these years,
With an undertone of tears,
For sad refrain.
Break, break, 0 Heart—
What dost for thee remain ?
Only a bitter past
Suffered and spent in vain:
A present with sad skies,
And hidden mysteries,
A future, to thine eyes
The sad past o’er again.
C. A. Bukke.
SWEET PAIN.
Oh love, thy kisses are so sweet
They make my glad tears start,
Oh love, thou com’st with rapid feet,
And wilt thou soon depart ?
They say so fast thy roses fade,
So soon the clouds thy sunshine shade,
That now I almost feel afraid
To take thee to my heart.
I see the glittering of thy wings,
Thine angel face I know,
Yet as I rise to heavenly things,
So shall I fall more low ;
And though thou showest me the light,
’Tis but to hide it from my sight;
I fear thou art a faithless knight,
And comest but to go.
Strange raptures fill this soul of mine,
Sweet breezes round me play,
A song half-human half-divine
Thou singest me to-day.
Yet if thy prize by storm thou take,
Or if I give, for thy sweet sake,
I fear that thou wilt only break
And fling my heart away.
Yet even so, be thou my lord ;
God sends thee from above
Because this sad life’s holiest chord
’Tis thou alone can move.
And though my worship thou disdain,
And though I give myself in vain,
I shall grow stronger by my pain,
And perfect through my love.
C. A. Burke.
A SPRING FLOWER SONG!
BY J. T. MABKLEY.
Blow on! wild western gale !
Beat hard upon old Winter’s cloudy brow,
Earth’s death and darkness are dissolving now:
White signs of life prevail!—
Lo! daisy, snowdrop, hedgerow, violet;
Sun’s fight intrusive storms, in blood-red passion set:
But soon the heated rain
On hill, in dell, and plain
Will warm and wash to loveliness young flowers,
And haunted banks burst beauteous thro’ sweet showers.
How magical those moments then will be!
What hope !—what sonnets of channed ecstasy !
The shepherd’s thrilling horn,
O’er scented meads, o’er waves of greening corn,
Will summon heaven to earth,
And men conceive new psalms at such a birth:
For life in spring’s long coffin’d sap will rise
Or fall, in quick’ning dew, from breathing skies.
As prayers ascend to God,
Wingless, but softly white, and pure as snow,
Leaving the dross of earth, and sin, below,—
So daisies leave the sod:
And e’en the violets aspire to raise
Their, quiet goodness in a sigh of praise :
But wandh'ing sunbursts kiss
Flowers into restful bliss.
The watchful robins guard them in the night,
And Luna yields them consecrated light:
Blow storms ! frown clouds I the flow’rets e’er must reign,
And spring is but a birth-scene, wild with pain:
The Alpha of the throng,
Inspires the key-note of the poet’s song:
Ah! soon pictorial day—
The cowslip’s glow—the woodbine’s curls at play,
Will charm Love’s lyre as Flora grander grows
And bees with music bribe each trembling rose,
3, Crawthorn-street, Peterborough.
Prince Emile von Wittgenstein has accepted a command in the
Russian army on the Danube, and is now on his way to join the
Grand Duke Nicholas at Kischingeff.
May 11, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Bepresentlng the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Kussell-street. Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Gd.
footfalls on the boundary of another
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Gd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,'ako about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENCLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjcant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spirituaiism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefiy with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says :—“Expenenced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions." 6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who wouid
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, IQs. fid.; cheap edition,
7a, Gd. „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM;.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. Gd. f
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Kev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Seville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. Gs. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. Gs.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Gs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. Gs.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. at 7s. Gd) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. Jameg Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.; 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations .* . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .
The Seer. „ III, „ . ,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
ApproachingCrisis;or,Troth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence , .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritua1. Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Troth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
.76
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 G
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 G
. 7 6
. 2 G
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 G
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0.
. 2 6
.30
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . , . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal)1 . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 G
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans.ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 8
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A. . 10 G
AW&S-T-T-TinH’• fir A from t.hp l3ancrc*a hv an T-nrHan £ rt
xxwaa-x-iAiuu., vi , n. v uiuts uuiu liic oaiigea. uy an juacuan umetr o v
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
vv in, voigiu ui juue, Alliesbuesia, ami lYervous uongesoion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . .,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . ... . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . i o
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
3. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Tbomaa R.
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Gd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman oi Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds jays of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Gd.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
■ by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Gd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R. T.
Hillock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
The great question of the da a.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. "Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PBINOE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
'ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENP’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable.. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S fruit salt
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feveriohness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and letter in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.O., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with y our Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“Ifeel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’, ‘
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased .to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards . of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
M ineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
SPIRITUALISM £
New Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
Present Position.
BY “ M.A. (OXON.) ”
I HAVE been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism. The facilities which I have enjoyed for personal
investigation, my acquaintance with the literature of the
subject and with prominent workers in it, and the attention
that I have paid to the investigation of its various phases, have
seemed to many to fit me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on Spiritualism, if it
did but sketch the'subject, should be very voluminous; and,
when written, it would be found to omit more than it dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write such a book; nor do I
think it desirable that any such attempt should be made in the
present state of our knowledge.
■ But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for observation should use them, and record
their results as best he can. In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub-
) lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
Crowell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter not yet published. A special feature of the book will
be the introduction to general readers of the best books on
Modern Spiritualism.
The volume will be published at 10s if sufficient names are
enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
i and will pay expenses. I decline pecuniary risk.
' I propose, hereafter (but not now) to issue two other works,
—one “ Spirit Teachings,” dealing with the religious aspect
of the question; the other, “ Researches in the Phenomena
and Philosophy of Spiritualism," dealing with the whole
subject in its experimental phases, and with the theory and
philosophy of it. These will come in due time if they find
a place.
For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.”
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.
Those to whose name * is prefixed will receive names of
Subscribers, and Mr. Percival, the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
of copies—about 500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print.
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me. as my time is already overtaxed.
“M.A (OXON.).’’
Names of Committee.
*Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitz-gerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde Park, W.
*Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T. Speer, Esq., 13, Alexandra-road, N.W.
*0. O. Massey, Esq., 96, Portland-place, W.
T. Shorter, Esq, 23, Prince of Wales’-road, N.W.
*B. Coleman, Esq., 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
F. W. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, W.,
Treasurer, to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found*in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
May 11, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
, £ s. d.
Le Comte de Bullet      60 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq ■ 20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq  20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq,   15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq  10 0 0
Alexander Oalder, Esq    10 0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq  10 0 0
G. O. Joad, Esq 7    10 0 0
The Hon. A. Aksakof   10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D  10 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  10 0 0
M. R. I    10 0 0
James Mylne, Esq    10 0 0
X    10 0 0
B     6 6 0
C. T i    5 5 0
George Sutherland, Esq  5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq    5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness   5 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun  5 0 0
A Friend  5 0 0
B  3 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon    2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear   2 2 0
Dr. Baikie        2 2 0
Miss Whitear       '.. 2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.I   2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe         2 2 0
S. J. H.      2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S  2 2 0
Ennesfallen  2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq.   2 0 0
W     .......;   2 0 0
G. V. ....     2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D    2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
A. Yacher, Esq.'    2 0 0
Colonel Olcott r..    2 0 0
The Baroness von Vay  1 10 0
George Lee, Esq.    110
G. R. Tapp, Esq       110
Mrs. Maltby    110
B. W. Pycock, Esq  110
Mrs. Nosworthy    110
C. T. Hook, Esq  110
Major Menars  110
A. Glendinning, Esq  110
T. P. Barkas, Esq.. F.G.S  110
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.TeLE  110
Mrs. Hennings    110
Dr. George Wyld     110
Miss Allen       1 1 C
W. P. Adshead, Esq     110
John Mould, Esq .....'.    110
J. P. Turner, Esq  110
J. T. Dodd, Esq.  .:   110
Mrs. Jeffreys     110
J. C. Eno       l l o
Miss Douglas    10 0
John Scott, Esq    10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq.  10 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq    10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   10 0
Mrs. Tyndall     10 0
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby    10 0
John Chapman, Esq    10 0
G. F. Green, Esq   0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby   0 10 6
R. Catling  0 10 6
E. R      0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq      0 10 0
M. J.Walhouse, Esq..:    0 10 0
A Friend    0 10 0
A Friend       0 10 0
T. H.      0 10 0
Miss Pearce   0 5 0
J. T. M    0 5 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation fer those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Bv Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace > .■
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.O.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloano-square, S.W. 
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
