AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 83.-—(Vol. IV.—No. 13.) LONDON: MARCH 27j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
OTontentg.
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries        145
Miss Lottie Fowlers’Mediumship  ... ... ... 146
The London Anthropological Society—Some more of Professor
Leitner’s Opinions—^Materialised Spirit Forms—Major Owens’
Experiences—Alleged Death during a Trance—Human Hyberna¬
tion—Spiritual Phenomena   ... ... ... ...    147
Spiritualism in Marylebone       ... 149
Spiritualism at the West End      ...    150
Private Seances —Manifestations at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s—Spirit
Identity—A Startling Revelation made Immediately after Death—
Seance at Dr. Speer’s—Direct Spirit Music—Spirit Writing—Miss
Shower’s Mediumship—Materialisation,Manifestations  150
Review.—Whataml?... ... ...    ...     152
An Alleged “ Amende Honorable’’ ...      153
New Publications... ...   ... ... ... ...    ... 153
Poetry ...    ... .-.  ... .... ... ... 154
Correspondence—Spirit Messages and Physics, 154; The British
National Association of Spiritualists, 154; Mrs. Somerville on
Ghosts, 154; Mesmerism, 155; Psychological Experiences, 155;
Inner Breathing, 155; An Error in the “ Banner of Light,” 155;
Evidence by Demonstration     ...   155
Mr. Herne at Brighton ... ... ...     ... 156
Paragraphs—Spiritualism in Newcastle, 148; The Position of Women 156
Answers to Correspondents ...    ...     156
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the'departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpnin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lament.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson,
Mr, D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay,
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lament.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is tbe discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
_ 1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc-;
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
* January 9th, 1874,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A SOIREE will be held on Wednesday, the 15th April, at the Cannon-
street Hotel.
Lady Patronesses:—
Mrs. Honywood. | Mrs. O. L. V. Tappan.
Mrs. Tebb. I Mrs. Strawbridge.
Mrs. Showers. I Mrs. Fitzgerald.
Mrs. Rudd. | Mrs. Everitt.
Miss Ponder. I Mrs. Kislingbury.
Miss E. Ponder. | Miss Withall.
Commence at 6.30. Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock precisely.
A. Jot, Hon. Sec.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council;
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tern.
Mr. A. M. Greene,
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th. September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GREENE, Secretary pro. tern.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TURES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
HE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL-
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Oommittee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 27, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and Mends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
■ 1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected, with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern,., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will bo given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, 1 Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss' Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in [Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which, were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfield-street, Islington.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. 0. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. 0. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, mcluding use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WHIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWOASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—TAx. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sundray Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
STratiurer.—Herbert n. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Ofices.—U, BERNERS STREET.
Hgn. mm. Lowjb (Louisa).
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
. Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delive .y.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect 1”—South Wales Press.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—jEcwtem
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Air letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.  ■   ;
MRS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOURSES at the Cleveland Hall, Clevelahd-street, Oxford-
street. The Committee have arranged for the delivery of these dis¬
courses at 7 o’clock every Sunday evening till April 6th, inclusive.
The expenses are not nearly covered by the sale of tickets and col¬
lections.
Donations or Subscriptions in aid will he received by the Treasurer,
Mrs. Honywood, 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Tickets can he had at the doors; also at Chappells; at Oliviers, Bond-
street, and at Burns’s, 16, Southampton-row, Holbom. Reserved seats 2s.
and Is. each. Body of the hall free.
SUPERNATURAL PHENOMENA.
TESTS ADAPTED TO DETERMINE THE TRUTH
OF SUPERNATURAL PHENOMENA.
By GEORGE HARRIS, F.S.A.,
Barrister at law; Fellow of the London Anthropological Society; late
(President of the Manchester Anthropological Society; late Vice-President
of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland; Foreign
Fellow of the Anthropological Institute of New York; Fellow of the
Royal Historical Society; and Author of Civilization Considered as a
Science; The Theory of the Arts, dec.
“They are more excusable who believe in apparitions than those who
reject all extraordinary revelations of this kind, contrary to the reports of
all historians, sacred and profane, ancient and modern, and to the tradi¬
tions of all nations; and think the appearance of spirits are fabulous and
groundless.”—Addison.
A paper read before the London Anthropological Society, at their
rooms, 37, Arundel-street, Strand, 3rd February, 1874. Published by
Request.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
London: Bafliere, Tindall, & Cox, King .William-street, Charing-cross.
.  1874.  ,
The alleged identification of the
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL."
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropolqgia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O. 1874.
’  Price Sixpence.   
Price 2s. 6d.
LIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“ The tone of the hook is exceedingly pure and good..”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
CHILDISH FANCIES.
Twenty short pieces in various keys for the pianoforte, composed by
CHARLTON TEMPLEMAN SPEER (ffits. 13).
Dedicated to Mrs. Denis, Fairbrook House, Rathfarnham, Dublin.
PRICE THREE SHILLINGS.
London: Published by R.Iimpus, at the College of Organists, 41, Queen-
square, Bloomsbury.
RE-ENGAGEMENT is desired by a Widow Lady as
HOUSEKEEPER or COMPANION. Practically experience, cheer¬
ful, and accustomed to polite and good society. Superior references from
a leading Spiritualist. For particulars, address, H. H., care of Mr. J.
Heywood, 141, Deansgate, Manchester.
imtrt
eJw
VOJ-UjVlE FOUR. J^UjVlBE^ THIRTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 27th, 1874.
lEp Spntnalbt
Established in 1869.
CHARGE EOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements,, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oobrespondenoh.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions,':—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
Will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spintualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. 0., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North.Fifth-street. •
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Kiohard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &o., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. E. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Bichmond.—Mr. J. Gary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and.
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
NO. I.
The pages of tlie Revue Spirite and other foreign
journals, give evidence that on the Continent Spiritualism
is not developing itself so rapidly in its phenomenal as¬
pects as in England and America. So foreign are the
ordinary physical manifestations to the Belgian
Spiritualists, that a correspondent speaks of the ascent
of a table as something extremely rare and wonderful,
occurring only in the presence of one particular medium.
Consequently, when the Messager de Liege gave an exact
translation of one of the more wonderful of the English
manifestations, a very serious protest from one of the
Belgian Spiritual societies appeared in the the following
number of the same paper, against the publication of
things so incredible, winding up with a request that the
editor would procure for his readers some more reliable
information.
On the other hand societies, or, as they are called,
groups, exist in all parts of France, Holland, and Bel¬
gium, for the exercise and development of writing,
trance, and above all, healing mediumship. The pro¬
vince of Liege, in Belgium, boasts of a Central Society,
which assembles weekly for seances, and holds a
quarterly general meeting, at which delegates from the
provinces attend; it also issues an excellent fortnightly
journal, the Messager. At Chenee, near Liege, there is
a society of healing mediums, an account of whose cures
has been published in a separate pamphlet*. At Brussels
the leading society, under the presidency of M. de
Bassompierre, also devotes itself chiefly to healing. A
case is reported of a woman being completely cured of
severe head-aches and boils, from which she had suffered
incessantly for five years, by three doses of mesmerised
water. A young girl afflicted with epilepsy, having
sometimes as many as three fits a day, has been relieved,
until the fits are now unfrequent.
At Bethune, in France, the Spiritual society is of
very ancient origin, having been founded in 1188 by
two gentlemen, to whom the spirit of Elias appeared,
when the town was visited by a pestilence; Elias en¬
joined them to found a Confrerie de CTiaritables.
Spiritual communications have continued from that
time downwards. The society consists at present of
twenty-eight members, whose office is to assist the poor
under spirit direction.
One curious feature exists among French and Belgian
Spiritualists, springing from their universal belief ill
Allan Kardec’s doctrine of Reincarnation. Spirits who
have passed through one stage of mortality, and are
awaiting their return to earth, are said to be errants
(wandering), and their state is designated erraticite.
Many of these wandering or earth-bound spirits, re¬
quiring help from mediums to gain the knowledge
necessary for their progress and reincarnation, a great
part of the work of Spiritual societies is to receive and
146
THE SPIBITU ALIST.
March 27, 1874.
assist unhappy spirits. At Meze, in Prance, circles
are devoted to this object, and many interesting com¬
munications regarding spirit-life are received by them.
In Paris, The Society for the Continuation of the
Spiritual Labours of Allan Kardec, which expresses its
object in its title, has been chiefly directed by Madame
Allan Kardec, widow of the founder. It possesses an
able worker in M. Leymarie, editor of the Revue
Spirite. Spirit photography is attracting much at¬
tention from the many satisfactory tests given by M.
Buguet, 5 Boulevard Montmartre, who is himself the
medium. Great numbers of likenesses are said to have
been recognised.
In Leipsic there are two monthly journals, the
Spirito-rationalistic and the Psychical Studies by M.
Aksakof. The latter takes up a purely scientific posi¬
tion ; none but thoroughly well attested facts, and no
anonymous contributions, are admitted. A society
exists in Leipsic for the investigation of Spiritualism,
which holds a meeting once a week for lectures and
discussion, but no mention is made of circles for mani¬
festations. Some of the chief advocates of woman’s
rights are entering into the subject, so that the woman-
question and the spirit question seem likely to go hand-
in-hand in Germany as elsewhere.
Austria and Hungary are both doing their part.
There is a flourishing society at Pesth, under the
auspices of the Baron and Baroness von Yay. The
Licht des Jenseits (Light from Beyond the Grave), a
monthly journal, is issued at Vienna, under the editor¬
ship of M. Delhez, who is about to inaugurate a society
in that city.
Pin ally, we have reports of a vigorous centre of
action at Geneva, where a certain Madame Bourdin is
acquiring great celebrity as a writer of romances under
spirit influence.
MISS LOTTIE POWLER’S MEDIUMSHIP.
The following articlei by the Special Commissioner of
the Glasgow Daily News was published in that journal
on Monday, last week :—<■
Fortunate, perhaps, beyond most, I have no near re¬
latives who have passed on into the other world, and
“ Annie ” seemed instinctively to divine this, for she
appeared for a time at a loss to bring anyone forward
to speak to me except herself. This of itself was a very
strange thing, for I had told my friend before entering
the hotel that one reason I had for contemning
Spiritualism, so called, was that I had not a single rela¬
tive in the other world with whose spirit I cared to hold
communion. Strangely enough, then, and in total
ignorance of this, the medium—who “ conjures up
spirits ” fast enough for most of her devotees, and deals
largely and decidedly in fathers, mothers, brothers,
sisters, and children—was mute before me. And here
again accrues a marvellous incident in the interview.
Though there was no relative about whose spirit I
cared to hear, I had previously informed my friend that
there was one, not that of a relative, with whom above
all things I should like to hold communion; and when
“ Annie ” could not get beyond myself and my own
worldly aflairs, I mentally resolved to assume for the
moment that Spiritualism was a reality, and to desire
intently the presence of the spirit in question; This I
did in silence, and without a word to Miss Powler on
that or any other subject; Judge then of my confu¬
sion, and almost of my horror, when the spirit came !
“ Annie ” described the appearance, the age, the
time of death, and the general characteristics of
the being of whom alone I was anxious to hear.
But this chapter of the marvellous has still more
of the marvellous. The friend par excellence of my
youth—a young man who died when a little over thirty
years of age, and who from early life was distinguished
by a manly and unaffected piety, and who afterwards
entered Holy Orders in the Catholic Apostolic Church-—
was, as his Church teaches, fully convinced that
Spiritualism was the work of the Devil, and used fre¬
quently and energetically to warn me against trifling
with it even in the way of sceptical inquiry; There are
many of our circle who remember the fervour of his
appeals to myself never to have anything to do with it;
and for this reason, that he was already convinced of
its being a reality and a work of the Devil, while I,
thinking it imposture, or a development perhaps of
animal magnetism, would be certain sooner or later to
be convinced of its genuineness, and so become a be¬
liever in it. Well, intent on conversing with the
spirit already conjured up, and wonderingly watching
every word to detect imposture, or account for what I
thought the medium’s lucky guessing, I must confess to
being strangely affected when “ Annie ” suddenly be¬
came for a short time dumb, and then in a hard rasp¬
ing, irritated tone, as if she were forced to make the
confession against her will:—“ Annie—Annie—cannot
—tell —you — more. There—is—another—Spirit—
standing—beside—your— chair— and— keeps—Annie
from—speaking. He—is-—a—clergyman—with—a—
long—robe—and—he— is— watching — over — you.
Annie—can—reveal—no—more—till—he—is—gone!”
And so, with a gasp, the “ spirits ”—I use the word
simply for the sake of description—again subsided into
silence. Startled from my critical mood in spite of my¬
self, I put a number of inquiries as to the appearance
of the clergyman, and was answered in a maimer which
photographed my deceased friend upon my mind so as
to leave no doubt they were his characteristics she was
describing. She further gave his age as a very little
over thirty, but said he looked much older than he was,
and that he was not originally trained for the Church,
but was nearly all his life in business, the whole of
which was perfectly correct.
Startled beyond measure, and far more than I cared
to acknowledge to the medium, I knew that in the Apos¬
tolic Church there is sometimes vouchsafed the “ gift of
tongues,” which is held to be a <( sign to them that be¬
lieve not,” I then framed the thought in my own
mind that it would be an almost overwhelming sign of
spiritual presence were the medium to speak in the un¬
known tongue. How I know that what I am about to
relate will be set down as the hallucination of insanity,
or at the very least be scouted as the acme of silliness
and absurdity. Yet I relate the simple truth as it oc¬
curred. Hardly had I formulated the wish to hear
such a sign than the medium fell back in her chair and
burst into a torrent of what to my friend appeared
gibberish, but which I at once recognised as the “ un¬
known tongue,” similar to that I had occasionally
heard in the Apostolic Church! I may just state that
on the following Sunday I induced my friend to go
with me to the Apostolic Church in this city, and after
I had introduced him to one of the clergy he quietly
said, “ That minister is wearing a robe similar to the
one described to us by Miss Powler.”
She then busied herself with what I thought trifles,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
March 27, 1874.
and, among other things, said to my friend—“ Annie
sees a long table, beautifully laid out, with glittering
plate and glasses, and also flowers. It is a feast. You
will be there to-morrow, and you will make a speech !”
Again I thought the medium was simply fooling us for
the sake of saying something, or had gone wrong in
the head, when to my astonishment, my friend left off
his hold of my hand, dived into his coat pocket, and
drew out an ornamental dinner-card for a private en¬
tertainment next day ! Of this I was totally ignorant,
and it was utterly impossible that Miss Fowler, scarcely
a day in Glasgow, could have been informed of such a
circumstance. My friend, of course, went to the “ feast,”
and, as it turned out, did actually make a speech !
After enjoying a hearty laugh at the dinner episode—
“ Annie ” herself joining in it—the medium turned her
attention to me, and, commencing with family matters,
did certainly proceed on their track with such general
correctness as a neighbour or a friend of the family
might have exhibited. One. circumstance she men¬
tioned was peculiarly striking. Flatly addressing me,
without the slightest hesitation, she said—“ Your 
(naming a near relative) had a brother who was drowned
in the sea”—which was perfectly true. Telling me I was
not born in Glasgow, but in the North, she described
the place and its surroundings, so that, had I seen
the description in print, I could have had no hesitation
in identifying it as the place of my nativity. She then
touched upon several leading events in my life, notably
an important lawsuit, the course of which, some of the
characters who figured in it, and its results, she ac¬
curately depicted. She gave a very good guess at the
period I had been in Glasgow, and delivered herself of
sage advice as to future conduct,
I lay down no theory upon this subject; I ask no
one to believe in " Spiritualism,” for, notwithstanding
all that has passed, I cannot say I do so myself; I only
present in print the facts as they happened on the occa¬
sion of my visit, and leave the reader to form his own
opinion. The concluding incidents I shall now men¬
tion, although, like those of the “feast”and “speech”
in my friend’s case, they were certainly, in
my mind, unworthy the dignity of the “ spirits ” to
notice. Just as I quietly took out my watch to
see the time, “Annie” suddenly said—“It is either
twenty minutes past nine or twenty minutes to
ten.” It was twenty minutes past nine! Then,
as I prepared to go, the “ spirit| said—“ Have you got
a blue letter ?—a letter in a blue envelope ?—it is im¬
portant, and if you have not got it, you will get it
speedily. “ The medium now ceased to hold my hands,
and sat impassive for a space; then the same series of
convulsive spasms with which she had entered the
trance were repeated, and in about three or four
minutes she awoke as from a sweet sleep, passed her
hands across her eyes, and smilingly asked us what the
spirits had been saying, as she was ignorant of all that
had happened. Having, after some conversation, bidden
her “ Adieu,” my friend and myself walked back to
the office I had left, when at the door I found—what
never happened to me before—a special messenger from
my residence, who, to my utter astonishment, and the
wonder of my friend, held out to me as I entered a
document in blue post l It was a letter informing me
that I had, by not filling up my house-tax paper (I
may explain I have not been long resident in Glasgow)
rendered myself liable to a fine of £20 and double duty!
Turning to my friend, I tossed the note to him, and,
utterly nonplussed, exclaimed—“ Well, that woman’s
certainly a witch! There’s the important blue letter
after all! ”
THE LONDON ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Ox Tuesday night, last week, a meeting of the London
Anthropological Society was held at 17, Arundel-street,
Strand, under the presidency of Dr. R. S. Charnock, F.S.A. Two
papers on the subject of Spiritualism were read at the meet¬
ing ; one by Mr. C. Staniland Wake, and the other by Mr.
G. M. Tagore, late Professor of Hindu Law at University Col¬
lege, London. These two papers were printed in the last
issue of this journal, and the following is the discussion which
took place after they were read.
SOME MOEE OE EKOEESSOB LEITNEB’S OPINIONS.
Professor Leitner, Ph.D., said that there was no doubt that
fetishism, as understood by Dr. Kaines, enters very largely
into all our conceptions, and that as long as we are human
beings, he supposed that it must do so ; still he maintained
that it was safer to go to the physical and practical notions of
right and wrong, and that the ideas of right and wrong so
derived, were neither irreconcileable with the speculations of
theologians nor with ideas of the supernatural—whatever
“ the supernatural ” might mean. It was true that in one
sense the Hindus had three hundred millions of deities, but
really the base of Hindu mythology was power itself. The
Hindu did not worship any particular development of strength
in any one of its details. Shiva was very destructive—as
destructive as any devil,—but in many points he was as good
as several other of their deities ; to the Hindus the idea of a
bad spirit was in no way revolting ; they simply worshipped
him because of his possession of power; in fact, if their ideas
were put in philosophical language, and the names of the gods
left out, their teachings would do for leading articles in any of
our present English newspapers. If our rule in India
should not be successful, but prove a gigantic failure, the
Hindus would have no objection whatever to erect a statue to
the power of incompetence, and to fall down and worship
it. (Laughter.) Yachs were considered bad, but as long as
they were treated well, they acted like good spirits, and good
spirits, if angered, at once begin to act like bad ones. Our
ideas of good and evil spirits will always depend upon our
state of civilisation, and as we progress in intelligence, our
deities will become milder. The canticles of Solomon tell
how he took away a shepherdess from her shepherd, and put
her in a seraglio, but she was so faithful in the midst of these
temptations, that at last he sent her back again to her shep¬
herd ; the canticles have in modern times had a mystical mean¬
ing put to them, and been made to symbolise the union between
Christ and His Church ; but to one who reads them as they
were written, they look like a love story, and nothing more;
but to those who survey them from a higher standpoint, they
do not look like a love story, the ideas of the readers having
advanced with the progress of civilisation. If the Moham¬
medans advance, they will be able to find in the Koran a great
deal against their present voluptuous paradise, and to warrant
them in introducing in place thereof the Hallelujah singing to
which we look forward. As long as civilised nations ace con¬
tent with an imperfect knowledge of the Bible, and of the
Hebrew language, so long will orthodox theology be pleasant
to us, as far as it goes, and so far will it be remunerative to
its present professors. (Laughter.) They might think that
he was expressing his opinions very freely, for indeed in these
days no man with less than a thousand a-year could afford to
have an independent opinion at all ; some men had tried it
on three hundred a-year and failed. (Laughter.) If people
understood Hebrew properly, the narrative about Joshua tell¬
ing the sun to stand still would have been translated as
a request that the light should last a little longer. Elijah was
said to have been fed by ravens; as ravens feed on carcases,
they must have brought him very unpleasant food ; but accord¬
ing to the Hebrew, the meaning of the passage was that he
was fed by Arabs. He (Professor Leitner) had no objection to
believe that Elijah was fed by ravens, or to believe anything
else anybody asked him to ; he was ready to believe any¬
thing whatever, out of respect to the opinions of others,
and as a form of politeness. (Laughter.) But if he were
fairly driven into a corner, he should prefer good Hebrew to
bad, and prefer to endorse the opinion that Elijah was fed by
Arabs, and not by ravens. As regarded the two first papers
which had been retui the last time he addressed the society,
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
he had been betrayed into making several impatient remarks
about Spiritualism, but since then he had come to the conclu¬
sion that he had been mistaken in so doing. It was a natural
feeling to him at the time which caused him to speak as he
did, but, from inquiries he had since made, it was quite cer¬
tain that many sensible men and women believed in the
matter, and he thought that the society should devote its
best attention to the alleged facts. There was scarcely any¬
body who had not had experiences like those narrated by
Spiritualists. In the country which he (Dr. Leitner) disco¬
vered between Cashmere and Badakhstan, there were said to
be very curious phenomena, and at the same time there were
people in it who benefited by imposing upon those who knew
less than themselves. In many parts of India there are people
who can do things which the English cannot do, but directly
the method by which they are done is discovered, they will
cease to be supernatural, and become natural. For instance,
there are several pundits who hybernate, as attested by
evidence given by many living men. At first sight these
things look ridiculous, but when put into scientific form,
they are regarded in a different light, and, if it were known
that a German professor was doing the same thing by scientific
means, the public would but consider it to be an interesting
experiment. In forming our opinions we should not be hasty
in coming to conclusions; we should study our own lines of
thought, and the bias given by the grooves in which we have
been educated, and we should do all we can never to worship
a fetish. (Applause.)
MATERIALISED SPIRIT FORMS.
Mr. C. H. Carmichael, M.A., said that the statement in
Mr. Wake’s paper about the visible appearance of a spirit
rising out of the body of a medium was curious, and well
worthy of investigation.
Mr. A. L. Lewis (secretary) said that he should be glad to
know, with reference to the statement of Mr. Wake that
spirits have been seen to rise out of a medium, was the medium
sensible or insensible at the time? Assuming all that Mr.
Wake had stated to be seen in connection with mediums, the
spirits still remained to be explained. If a medium divided
himself into two, spirits would still seem to be acting upon
him, to enable him to do so ; so, even upon his own theory,
Mr. Wake did not get rid of the spirits. He thought that
Mr. Tagore’s paper was too short; he hoped that he would
write another and a longer one, and forward it to the society.
major owen’s experiences.
Major S. E. I. Owen said that he was in India throughout
the Indian mutiny, and was in India at the time when the
Fakir was buried at Lahore. In the year 1844 he met several
officers who came from that part of the country, and it was a
matter of common talk with them, as an accepted and unde¬
niable fact, that the Fakir had been buried for a long time,
and afterwards revived as stated. One man was said to have
been put into a box, which was chained to the ceiling, and
troops were placed to watch it for several weeks, but the man
afterwards recovered consciousness. These things were
spoken of by those who had seen them as unquestionable
facts. The Fakir had a wife, who helped to restore him; he
was able to throw himself into a kind of trance, in which his
tongue turned back into his mouth. Sometimes he was
buried for weeks together. He (Major Owen) had not seen
hands, or parts of the human body coming from a medium,
but, in the presence of a medium, he had seen a hand travel¬
ling air round his room, and placing itself upon his neck.
The hand was luminous. He believed that it appeared under
test conditions, and it occurred in his own house. He must
acknowledge that he was a medium himself, although probably
his saying so would bring down an avalanche on his head.
(Applause.) The facts of Spiritualism were true, whatever
their explanation might be. The testimony as to his medium-
ship did hot rest' entirely1 upon himself, for many of those
who sat with him in his circle had also become developed
into mediums, and obtained manifestations on their own
account. He had seen this in the case of scores of his own
friends and of some members of his family. He could not
possibly suppose that all these people had been playing him
some dreadful tricks.
ALLEGED DEATH DURING A TRANCE.
Mr. H. T. Marchant said that about twelve years ago there
was an Oxford student who had the power of disassociating
his body from his soul whenever he pleased, and he was under
the impression that if he remained absent long enough to
allow his body to get cold, he could never return to it. Once he
March 27, 1874.
did let it get cold, and he was not able to return ; in short, he
was dead. There was one part of Spiritualism which might
be studied in connection with the theory of wave thoughts;
he referred to the many cases in which persons who were just
passing away from this life appeared to their friends at a
distance ; the cases were so numerous that he thought the
phenomenon should be accepted as a fact 5 he thoroughly
believed that the power existed.
HUMAN HYBERNATION.
Dr. 0. Carter Blake, Lecturer on Anatomy at Westminster
Hospital, said that there was one significant fact in connection
with the burial of the Fakir ; it was on record that before
he was buried, a lozenge was placed in his mouth, and
possibly through this lozenge some sustenance was conveyed,
fie should like to know whether any statements about the
burial of the Fakir were recorded at the time, or whether the
officers told the tale only on their return to England. In fact,
some of the tests which Mr. Harris had suggested in a former
paper might be applied in this case.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
Mr. Grazebrook said that the case of the Fakir was not so
very uncommon. Fasting girls had been known at various
times in England; they had lived in a state of trance with
little or no food for a considerable period. He did not
believe in Spiritualism himself, but he was in a state of mind
to hear anything for or against it. (Hear, hear.) A surgeon,
who was a friend of his, told him that he went to a seance an
unbeliever in the whole thing, but the phenomena were so
extraordinary that he could not but accept the idea that they
were supernatural. A low voice came and whispered in his
ear, and'the voice was that of his wife who was dead. She
told him something that nobody but himself knew. When a
gentleman—a friend of his own—who had no object in telling
an untruth, made such a statement to him, it would be
arrogant on his part to say that it was not true, or that his
friend was deluded. Science ought to attend to the matter,
and, learn what was at the bottom of it all. It should decide
whether these things took place or not. The beautiful poem
of “ We are Seven," by Wordsworth, favoured the idea, that
these spirits were about us, and he thought they did not
always do such foolish things as they were popularlysupposed
to do. He should be loth to believe the statement that the
body of a medium had been seen- to be elongated.
Major Owen—Well I must say that I have seen it myself.
(Applause.)
The Chairman said that when Mr. Wake, in his paper, spoke
of Turanians, he supposed that he meant Scythians. With
regard to the Shamonism of the Greenlanders, Mr, Wake had
said that two voices were heard, and that the answers were
dark and indirect; this agreed perfectly with the oracle at
Delphi. One of the voices no doubt was caused by ven¬
triloquism. Mr. Wake had stated how, in one of the African,
tribes, spirits ordered a goat to be slaughtered, and its gall to
be used to. cure a child of convulsions. The African savages
have many remedies which civilised people know nothing of;
in Guinea they cure rheumatism and other diseases by “ in¬
sufflation ;” in fact, they have many remedies not known, in
Europe. Ox-gall he believed to consist of water to the extent
of seven-eighths, so that if it did no good to the child, he did
not suppose that it did it much harm. Spiritualism was of
recent introduction in England, but it was known in Asia
Minor long ago ; indeed, in.oneof the French Asiatic journals,
there.was a long account of spiritual mapifestations in Cash-
mere 217 years ago. As to the matter of fetishes, the Eng¬
lish have plenty of fetishes ; some worship money, some wor¬
ship women, some worship an unwashed constituency; he
could not say that one kind of fetishism was more sensible than
another.
Thp prpQ^edJugs. then clpsgd*.
Some music, by Master Speer, aged, thirteen, who com*
poses under spirit influence, has just been published.
Spiritualism in. Newcastle.—-The following are the
officers of the “ Newcastle Society for Promoting Inquiry
into Modern Spiritualism ” : — President—Mr. Armstrong.’
Vice-President—Mx. Hare. Treasurer—Mr. John Miller.
Secretary—Mx, Fenwick Pickup. Committee—Mr. Martin,
Mr. Gilchrist, Mr. Mould, and Mr. Causey. Mediums—
Fairlamb, Miss Wood, Mr. Rankin, and Mr. Crawford. The
society numbers about fifty regular paying members. The
publisher of Spiritual literature in Newcastle is Mr. Et Ji
Blake, 49, Grainger-street.
March 27, 18-74.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
149
SPIRITFALISM IN MARYLEBONE.
On Wednesday evening, last week, a lecture was delivered
under the auspices of the Marylebone Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism, by Mr. Thomas Everitt, of Holders-
hill, Hendon, N.W., at the Hall, 91, Church-street, Padding¬
ton. Mr. E. D. Rogers presided.
Mr. Everitt began by narrating some of the more remark¬
able of the phenomena he had witnessed through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Everitt for many years past, and. he read long
extracts from the messages given to him by the spirits by
direct writing. He has now such a number of these messages
written by the spirits themselves, without the intervention of
any human hand, that if published they would form a large
book. Full particulars about Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship
having been previously published in these pages, we do not
on the present occasion give an abstract of the lecture, but
proceed to place the discussion on record.
At the close of the lecture, the chairman said that he
thought that whether the listeners believed the facts stated
by Mr. Everitt or not, they would all agree that the lecture
had been intensely interesting. If any inquirer wished to put
a question, Mr. Everitt was ready to answer it to the best of
his ability.
Several questions were then put, and answers given as
follows-:—
When the spirits communicated with you by writing, was the
paper in the room at the time,or did the spirits supply it?
Mr. Everitt said that the paper was provided by himself,
and in most cases the initials of somebody present were
written upon the .paper before the seance began ; it was
generally possible to tell beforehand when the writing was
going to take place, for they could hear sounds like concus¬
sions of the atmosphere,, which gradually grew louder, and
appeared to come nearer ; then the paper went up and was
heard fluttering in the air, and an excessively rapid tapping
noise came from it. As many as 796 words had been written
by the spirits in seven seconds of time. Sometimes they gave
messages in Latin, at times when there was nobody in the
circle who understood Latin, and he had to take the papers to
friends and get' them translated afterwards.
Will you give us further information as to the rapidity of
the writing, and how it is done ?
Mr. Everitt replied that the writing could not be done by a
human hand in the time ; the most rapid writing he had ever
had came at the rate of 936 words in a second. Although
the letters appeared to be written with a lead pencil, for a
long time they were in doubt whether a pencil were actually
used, or whether the writing might not be produced by some
process analogous to lithography, but one day they found a
pencil with the point broken, and on trying to write with it
it made two marks; they also found in the writing done by
the spirits some double marks such as would have been
made by the broken pencil. Sometimes they had noticed
that the point of the pencil was worn after the writing had
been done. Gn another occasion the spirits brought a large
book from a locked drawer in an upper room ; they placed it
on the seance table and asked the sitters to examine the pages,
which, were few in number, but very large in size. There
was no writing in the book. The light was put out, the book
and pencil were whipped up in the air, and the leaves of the
book could be heard turning over with immense velocity;
within a few seconds the light was struck by order, and
pencil notes were found on the margin of the book opposite
to every engraving. On closer inspection it was noticed that
in turning over the leaves of the book the pencil had caught
against the edge of each page as it flew over, which was an
absolute: proof that, the pencil was used in the production of
the. spirit writing. He. did not know how the writing was
done, and did not suppose that tany living man was able to
give an explanation. He had inquired of the spirits, who
said that time and space were very different to them to what
they were to us, and it was no use their attempting to give an
explanation, for they could not make it intelligible to mortals.
Can spirits make themselves visible ?
Mr. Everitt said that they certainly could. He did not
mean that they could externalise themselves so that all
persons could see them at the same time ; but sometimes his
wife became clairvoyant; in fact, she was very often in the
other life, and could see things which were taking place there,
just as in her normal state she can see things taking place on
earth. Once, on coming out of a trance, she said to a gentle¬
man, ?! I have seen your wife ; she told me to tell you not to
fret so much.” He replied, “ That is true, I was sobbing
all last night.” Mrs. Everitt did not know that till he told
her. Mr. Everitt gave other illustrations of how Mrs,
Everitt saw spirits.
Can you furnish any evidence as to the fact of numbers of
persons seeing a spirit at the same time ?
Mr. Everitt said that he could, for at one seance Mrs.
Burns, Mr. Cogman, and Mrs. Everitt all entered the trance
state and saw the same things at the same time in the
other life; when they returned to their normal state they each
recollected what they had seen, and talked over their experi¬
ences. Mrs. Everitt was not always permitted to remember
what she had seen—the spirits said it was not good for her,
for if she remembered everything, it would make her alto¬
gether dissatisfied with her mortal life; very commonly
when she was entranced, she expressed the strongest objection
to return to earth.
Have spirits ever given any clue as to the locality of the
spirit world f
Mr. Everitt said that they had not. They asserted that the
other life consisted of states or conditions; that they had
no localities, but only the appearance of localities. He had
had striking evidence that persons before they leave their
natural body can pass into spiritual states. He had a
friend named Mr. Meers, who lived at Dunedin, in New
Zealand, and once in the trance Mrs. Everitt was permitted
to go there and to converse with him. She also saw his
house, and described it; her description was sent to Mr.
Meers by post, and in his reply he said it was utterly im¬
possible that anybody could describe his house so accurately
without having seen it.
Can you give us evidence that the pieces of paper written
upon in the dark by spirits had not been changed ?
Mr. Everitt said that he initialed the paper before the
seances began, therefore knew that the blank paper was
used, quite apart from the knowledge he had of the integrity
of his wife. One day his friend Mr. Theobald received a
letter from Mr; Sammons, of Cape Town, South Africa, in
which Mr Sammons asked for a reply from the spirit, John
Watt. Mr. Theobald took a piece of blank paper, tore off
one comer, after which Mrs. Everitt held it for a time that
it might get charged with the imponderable emanations
coming from her body, which emanations are used by spirits
in producing manifestations. John Watt then wrote upon
it, but only with ordinary rapidity as with a hand; at the
close of the sitting it/ was found that the piece torn off the
corner fitted the tear in the larger piece of paper. One day
Mr. S. C. Hall wished Mrs. Everitt to give the secretary of the
Crystal Palace, and Mr. Holt, of the Crystal Palace, a seance ;
the spirits wrote part of a message, which was read by the
sitters; the light was then put out, and the spirits com¬
pleted the message on the other side of the paper. Mr.
Holt said that he could swear it was the same piece of
paper,, because he had noticed a flaw in it.
Are entranced mediums conscious of having a body when con~
versing with spirits in the spirit world ?
Mr. Everitt said, that when entranced, Mrs. Everitt had
never seen herself in the same sort of garments she wore here,
except upon one occasion. On that occasion she saw all the
sitters sitting in the circle, and when she thought of her
natural body, she could see it in the chair, and she regarded
it as a cast-off garment, of no use. But the garments she had
on seemed to be of the same make as the garments of her
natural body. On other occasions she had generally found
herself clothed in white, with blue trimmings of various
kinds, and some little jewellery. On entering the next world,
she has several times found herself in a garden in which
some of the roses were more or less tinged with blue, and she
had been told that blue was her spirit colour. She had been
in a small house or bower in that garden, and a gentleman
often came to her there, and asked her to assist him in curing
disease ; she has gone with him into a room where there was
a sick person, and she had been struck at seeing her own
body in a chair. He told her not to trouble about that, but
to make passes over the patient under his direction.
How is it that the body does not die when the spirit is away ?
Mr. Everitt replied that he did not know that he could
answer that question to the satisfaction of the hearers. Once
he asked the spirit John Watt how the spirits knew, when they
met a person in the next life, whether he had left the body
or not ? He replied that ” he knew by the magnetic cord
which joined the spirit to the body.” His hearers should bear
in mind that there was no space, as we know it, in the other
life, so that the spirit might really be as near to the material
body when free from it as it was before.
150
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Have, you had any confirmation, of the, doctrine of Swedenborg
about (he Grand Man ?
Mr. Ereritt replied that he had put questions upon that
point, and the spirits to whom he put them said they had no
knowledge upon the subject.
Have several persons in their normal state ever seen a spirit
simultaneously ?
Mr. Eyeritt replied, “Yes.” The three persons he had
already mentioned had, in their normal state, described what
they had seen when entranced.
That was spiritual vision, but has anybody ever seen with
physical vision a materialised form ?
Mr. Everitt replied that at his seances they had not had that.
M. Harper rose and said, that if Mr. Everitt could not.
answer the question, he (Mr. Harper) could do so. He and
many others had, at seances, frequently seen materialised
spirits simultaneously; they saw the spirits with normal
vision, just as he saw all the persons then present in the hall.
The Chairman said that he had seen materialised spirits
with his natural vision; he had seen a spirit, had talked with
it, had seen it write, and felt it; he had had all his senses grati¬
fied. He could quite understand that friends who had neither
seen nor heard anything of the kind, could not take these
things on the testimony of a stranger ; they would naturally
doubt it, and there was a time when he doubted it,
like others.
The meeting then closed, with the usual votes of thanks.
SPIRITUALISM AT THE WEST END.
Last Saturday night Mrs. L. Makdougall Gregory, of
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W., had a private meeting
of friends. Amongst the company were :—
Sir Charles Dilke, Bart., M.P.; Lady Dilke; General Brewster; Rev.
Mr. and Mrs. Haweis; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.; Mr. T. Herbert Noyes,
B.A. (Oxon); Mrs. Gilbert Tracey; Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law;
Mrs. Holmes; Mrs. Jackson; Miss Katherine Poyntz; Dr. Cutler, of Spa;
Mr. and Mrs. Cholmondeley Pennell; Professor and Mrs. Allman, of Edin¬
burgh; Lady Vere Cameron, of Lochiel; Mrs. Limond Strong; Miss Hope;
Mr. Frederick Fuller; Mr. Beauclerk; Mr. and Mrs. Murray, of Philliphaugh;
Mr. W. H. Harrison; and the medium, through whom the Spirit Teachings
published in the Spiritualist are given.
Mrs. Jackson, in the course of the evening, said: Mrs.
Gregory has asked me to say a few words to you concerning
Spiritualism. I have not prepared any address on the subject,
but may briefly state that Spiritualism is of much older date
than is generally supposed, and began long before the cele¬
brated Fox rappings were first heard at Rochester, in America.
We have to go back to India for some of the earliest records of
supernatural phenomena,—to India, the birthplace of our own
race. The use of Spiritualism in the present age is manifest;
steeped as modern society is in infidelity and materialism, it
puts aside dogmatism, and gives satisfactory proof that there
is a life hereafter; that this is the lower state of matter, and
that the next life is one of progression, and a state of pro¬
gression is the highest condition of existence that we finite
minds can possibly conceive. How conclusive it is to hear
the direct voices of the spirits, to hear them speaking inde¬
pendently of human aid, giving proofs of their own identity,
and demonstrating that Spiritualism is really a fact, that it is
not abnormal, that it is not a delusion. Spiritualism is
about the greatest truth in the world now in process of inves¬
tigation. Science has done little to help it as yet, and ought
to deal with it with less prejudice; still, a considerable
nnmber of scientific men are taking the matter up. I think
that Pythagoras was the first to teach the immortality of the
soul, and he recognised to some extent the doctrine of re-incar¬
nation. Afterwards the same views were advocated by Socrates.
The leading principles of Spiritualism have permeated all the
ages, and eighteen hundred years ago Christ advocated
them in the highest and purest manner. In the present day
we have what is called “ Modern Spiritualism,” which is sup¬
posed by the ignorant to be diabolical; this same idea of
diabolical agency, caused the cruel persecutions for witch¬
craft in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. In this
materialistic age the phenomena are attracting much atten¬
tion, and I think that within the next thirty years spirits
will be able to materialise themselves to such an extent, as
to be able to teach from our pulpits, and in places of public
resort, in such a manner that persons of the poorest capacity
may yet listen to the truths of the higher life as delivered
by the lips of archangels. I did not come here prepared to
give a comprehensive or exhaustive account of Spiritualism ;
in fact many of you are already personally aware of the great
March 27, 1874.
work which Spiritualism is now doing in our midst, so I will
not further take up your time. (Applause.)
Miss Katherine Poyntz in the course of the evening enter¬
tained the company with some singing of very superior
quality.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
MANIFESTATIONS AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S—SPIRIT
IDENTITY—A STARTLING REYELATION MADE IMMEDIATELY
AFTER DEATH.
The following account has been sent us for publica¬
tion :—
“ On the evening of Saturday, February 21st, a few
friends met together at the house of Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W. The
party numbered six in all, and included the Baron Du
Potet and the gentleman to whose mediumship we are
indebted for the Spirit Teachings which have appeared
from time to time in your columns. There was no in¬
tention of having a seance, and ordinary topics were
the subject of conversation, when suddenly, in the
middle of dinner, this gentleman surprised us by saying
that he felt a spirit standing near him between himself
and the Baron (who sat on his right); whether good or
bad he could not tell, but the influence was by no means
pleasant. The spirit was also perceived by the Baron,
to whom it conveyed the impression that it was in a
state of great distress, and that it was the spirit of a
person who was then alive. Nothing more was said at
the time, but the medium continued to feel a disagree¬
able influence near him, and spoke of it to me when
dinner was over.
“ As soon as we reached the drawing-room, he was
impelled to sit down and write, and when a pencil and
paper had been brought, his hand was moved backwards
and forwards with great rapidity, and an object was
roughly drawn on the paper which resembled a horse
fastened to a kind of cart or truck. Several attempts
were made to depict it more clearly, and then the
following sentences were written—e I killed myself—I
killed myself to-day—Baker-street—medium passed.’
Here the writing became unintelligible, as the medium
grew more and more agitated, until at length he rose
from his seat in a state of trance, and exclaimed in
broken sentences—F Yes ! yes ! Killed myself to-day,
under a steam roller. Yes ! yes! Killed myself—
blood, blood, blood!’ The control then ceased, but the
medium felt the same unpleasant influence for some
hours afterwards, and could not entirely shake it off for
several days.
“ In reference to the communication, I may state
that, although the medium had passed through Baker-
street in the afternoon, neither he nor any one present
was aware that a man had committed suicide there in
the morning by throwing himself under a steam roller.
A brief notice of the occurrence appeared in the Pall
Mall Gazette in the evening, but none of the party had
seen that paper. It is worth remarking that on the
front of the steam roller which was used in Baker-
street a horse is represented in brass, and this perhaps
may serve to account for its appearance in the medium’s
drawing, where we should certainly not expect to find it.
“ Allow me in conclusion to point out a few of the
inferences which may fairly be drawn from the facts I
have stated by those who are willing to accept them as
true. In the first place they would seem to prove that
no amount of injury done to the body at the time of
death incapacitates the spirit for immediate actioni, In
this case the unfortunate man was literally crushed to
4. .
March 27, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
^pieces, and yet a few hours afterwards his spirit could
communicate in writing through the medium, and could
also make use of his organs of speech. In the next
place it would appear that a spirit just released from
the body carries with it something corporeal; otherwise
it is difficult to account for the Baron’s impression that
the spirit he perceived was that of a person who was
then living. Again, we may infer that spirits imme¬
diately after death are able to recognise a medium
through whom they can communicate.
“ In the case before us it would appear that the
spirit followed the medium from Baker-street, and
waited for an opportunity of making his presence
known. And, lastly, I would add the remark that the
man who accepts the facts I have stated, and seeks for
a solution of the difficulties that surround them, will
look in vain for much assistance from psychic force or
unconscious cerebration.”
SEANCE AT 3>E. SPEEIl’S—DIRECT SPIRIT MUSIC—SPIRIT
WRITING.
Last Sunday evening a seance was held at the resi¬
dence of Mr, Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D., Douglas
House, Alexandra-road, St. John’s Wood, jST.W. The
gentleman through whom the Spirit Teachings, occa¬
sionally published in The Spiritualist, are given, was
the medium. During the past two years not a single
untruth has been told through the mediumship of this
gentleman, and all the spirits who have been asked to
do so have proved their identity by giving facts, dates,
and minute particulars about their past life. Most of
these particulars have been given by writing medium-
ship, but he has physical power as well.
The whole room frequently vibrates continuously
when he is entranced, and last Sunday the spirits gave
some direct spirit music—a manifestation they have
long been developing. A stringed instrument was
heard, on which some notes were occasionally struck;
a noise similar to that producible by a tambourine was
also heard; the most remarkable sound was an un¬
canny one, and resembled that which might be pro¬
duced by a great bat, with wings two or three feet long
fluttering about the room. The spirits were asked if,
in time, they could give direct music like that of a full
orchestra ? They replied, “ bTo, because they could not
find sufficient knowledge of music in the mind of the
medium.” There were no musical instruments of
mortal make in the room during this seance.
Small twinkling lights of the ordinary kind at spirit
circles were seen floating about. The direct spirit
voice in its incipient stages was also heard; it was re¬
marked that this attempt to manifest by voice had
never been heard at the circle, except when Mr.
Harrison was present. He asked “ whether something
physical or something mental connected with him gave
them the power to produce the voice?” They replied,
“ Something physical.”
A very long prayer in direct and most minute spirit
writing was given in the course of the evening; a
magnifying glass had to be used to help to read it.
The hands of all the members of the circle were joined,
and the medium trembled violently, as if much vital
energy were being drawn from him while the spirits
were producing the writing.
Scented breezes swept round the room several times
in the course of the evening, and liquid scents were
sprinkled upon the sitters, Raps were plentiful, and
the late Baron Guldenstubbe announced his presence by
heavy thuds, which shook the room, and by a few mes¬
sages in French.
The medium was warned by the spirits that if he sat
much in mixed circles, and with other mediums, he ran
the risk of coming under the control of lower in¬
fluences, and of the messages given through him be¬
coming deteriorated both in quality and reliability.
MISS SHOWERS’ MEDITTMSHIP.—MATERIALISATION
. MANIEE STATIONS.
We have been favoured with the following letter :—
Sir,—One of the most successful seances that ever was held
at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, took place this evening, with a new circle of fourteen,
among whom were Mrs. Wiseman, Mrs. Speer, Mrs. Fraser,
Lady R—, Mr. Beauclerc, General Brewster, Colonel Stuart,
Rev. Maurice Davies, D.D., a distinguished Fellow of the
Royal Society, who had attended a seance for the first time on
the previous evening, Mrs. and Miss Showers, and myself.
The proceedings began with a dark secmce, and the table tilted
out, “ We intend to appoint some one to keep order in this dis¬
orderly circle.” Accordingly a gentleman was appointed
master of the ceremonies. After a few words from Peter,
Miss Showers was requested to go to the piano, when the
spirits sang their remarkable quartette, “ Whip Poor Will’s
song,” and one or two melodies. Then Florence promised
to do her best to materialise her full form.
Mrs. Gregory declined the offer of the spirits and of the me¬
dium to submit to the usual tests of searching and tying, as she
feared that the conditions of the circle were already unfavour¬
able, so the medium was left alone in the back drawing-room,
which was fitted up as a cabinet, while the rest of the circle
sat in the front drawing-room and proceeded t6 sing perse-
veringly while the medium was being entranced, the spirits
occasionally chiming in. No long time elapsed before the
door in the screen opened and the spirit, “ Florence Maples,”
clad in flowing robes of white samite, weird and wonderful,
with an ample white turban, and a veil thrown back from the
face, stepped out into the room, and the members of the circle
were summoned up one by one to converse with her and shake
her by the hand. The light of a single candle partially shaded
was all that the spirit could bear, and she several times had
to return to recruit her strength from the medium, but she
must have remained a full hour with the circle, for some
while standing at the half-open door, but latterly taking a
vacant chair and sitting by M. A.’s side. She seemed to
bear a stronger likeness to the medium than on the previous
occasion, but the eyes had a very peculiar glazed appear¬
ance, and the figure was some inches taller than the medium,
for she stood by M. A.’s side for the express purpose of the
comparison.
In answer to Col. Stuart’s inquiries, she said that her
parents’ names were Joseph and Margaret Maples, of Black-
bum-street, Inverness, and that consumption carried her off
about six years ago; she wished a message to be sent to her
parents relating to her death-bed scene. As it was the last seance
this season, she desired every member of the circle to write
her an autograph message, duly signed, for her to carry away
as a keepsake, and said that she would try to dematerialise
them, but she found that she could only dematerialise one
small piece containing M. A.’s autograph. At last, she said
she had succeeded in doing so, and the rest she desired the
medium to keep for her. On the conclusion of the seance—
and Florence seemed quite reluctant to go—the medium, who
wore a dark-coloured dress, was found still entranced, lying
with her face on the floor at the further end of the room.
Miss Showers’ mediumship appears to resemble Miss Cook’s
so nearly that the tests by which Mr. Yarley has absolutely
established the presence of the medium in the cabinet, while
the spirit is materialised outside it, leave no doubt of the
materialization of the spirit form, independently of the
medium, and on previous occasions we have recorded the
application of stringent tests of tape, and seals, and searching
when Florence has appeared; but the fact of the circle on
this occasion being so large and so newly constituted, renders
the successful result on this occasion very remarkable.
It should also be mentioned, that the medium had sustained
a severe shock on Sunday evening at a seance at her own
home, owing to the shrieks of two of her own relatives, who
were alarmed at their first view of the materialised spirit,
and had hardly recovered from its effects.
T, Herbert Notes.
152
THE SPIHITIJALIST.
March 27, 1874.
iftebteto.
What am I? Volume II. By Edward 'W. Cox, Ser-
jeant-at-Law. Longmans: London. 1874.
This second volume of Mr. Serjeant Cox’s book on
the body, mind, and spirit of man is of very consider¬
able interest to all students of psychology, because it
deals with mesmerism, somnambulism, unconscious
cerebration, and Spiritualism. On the present occasion
it is the latter portion of the book, or that portion
which relates to Spiritualism, which it is intended to
review. Mr. Serjeant Cox adheres very rigidly to his
hypothesis that some force which he calls “psychic
force ” exudes from the human body, and that the in¬
telligence connected with spiritual manifestations is
due to the unconscious action of the brain of the
medium, or of some other person present, upon this
force. Lor instance, he says :—
Of course I would not be so arrogant as to assert that the
holders of this spiritual theory are certainly wrong. I cannot
dispute its possibility : but I contend that we have no right
to set it up until we have thoroughly investigated the
phenomena, collected a vast body of facts, carefully digested
and compared them, mastered all the conditions, and so are
compelled to the conclusion that all explanations consistent
with natural science are impossible.
But the conditions under which the phenomena of Psychic
Force are manifested not merely fail to support the supermun¬
dane theory, but they point directly to a fans et origo in the
Psychic, from whom the Force comes. The reasonable pre¬
sumption would be that the intelligence governing the force
proceeds from the same fountain as the force. It is at least
very improbable that a force emanating from A should be di¬
rected by B. Moreover, the communications rarely exhibit
more than ordinary intelligence. For the most part they are
rather below than above the average.
They savour strongly of the psychic in whose presence they
are produced. They reflect precisely the character of his
mind. They reproduce his opinions, employ his language,
and exhibit even his defects of education. If the psychic is
coarse in thought and speech, so are the communications. If
refined, so are they. His theological opinions are faithfully
expressed. If he is ungrammatical, so are they. Is he a
Frenchman, they are expressed in French. This is the rule.
The exceptions are rare, and may be accounted for by other
mental conditions already described, without the help of
spirits of the dead.
If, therefore, the intelligence that directs the psychic force
precisely resembles the intelligence of the person from whom
the force proceeds, is it not a rational inference that, however
exercised, here is the source of the intelligence whose opera¬
tions we are viewing ? Why should we assert the interference
of something not perceptible, merely because we cannot at
once discover the connecting link between the force and the
intelligence ? Is not the presence of supermundane performers
quite as difficult to accept as the imperceptible connection
between a nerve force and a mental operation directing that
force ?
The obvious conclusion to be drawn from the indisputable
similarity of the communications with the mental capacities
and characteristics of the psychic, is sought to be answered
by a theory, of whose worth the reader will form his own
fudgmenK. rn ' . - , .. .
‘‘ True,” say the maintainers of the spiritual doctrine,
“ the communications usually partake of the mental conditions
ofthe medium, as we prefer to call him. But this is because
the spirits of the dead can only hold intercourse with us in
the flesh by assuming material organs, which alone are per¬
ceptible to mortals. The medium is a person of peculiar
constitution, whom in certain conditions of his organism,
when the link between his own spirit and his body is loosened,
a spirit can possess, and whose organs it can use to express
its own thoughts in sounds intelligible to the ear. But it can
do this only according to the condition of the organs it em¬
ploys, and consequently the communications can be conveyed
only in the characteristic forms consistent with the structure
of the material mental organs of the medium.”
This is, certainly, an ingenious way of escape from a palpa*
ble difficulty, and it would have something to recommend it
but for a fatal blot in it. It is conceivable that the expres¬
sion of a thought may take its shape from the instrument
through which it is conveyed ; but what of the thought
itself ? If a spiritual being were desirous to communicate its
ideas, surely these would not partake of the imbecility, or the
ignorance, or. the idiosyncrasy of the psychic. But in fact
the thoughts themselves are the psychic’s thoughts, and not
such as can, upon any theory of spiritual existence, be
attributed to a disembodied spirit. The religious creed of the
psychic is always professed by the supposed spirit; so are his
political or social views. His ignorance of science or of
natural facts is faithfully reflected, even in matters about
which a spirit could not possibly be ignorant.
Although there [is not a little truth in the above
quotation—and many mediums are to be found with
powers of no very striking order, through whom
messages of a vague and unsatisfactory nature are
given—there are others to whom these objections do
not apply. Viewed from the Spiritual side, it would
be argued that these unsatisfactory mediums are mes¬
merised by spirits who gain but imperfect control over
them, and stimulate them to give expression to their
own thoughts in a dreamy semi-conscious state, whilst
very little coming from an independent source finds its
way clearly through such mediums into the outer
world. Our best mediums are, as a general rule, persons
who are deeply and easily entranced, so that they
become utterly unconscious for a time to every¬
thing which they say or do while under influence;
whereas, those mediums who are never entranced, or
are but partially entranced, frequently have minds of-
too active and positive a nature to allow spirit messages
or manifestations to be given with clearness and power.
If any observer wished to get up a case to support an
argument, rather than to collect facts impartially from
all sources and frame an argument afterwards, he might
find a great deal in Spiritualism strongly in favour of
the unconscious cerebation theory. But it does not
appear that Mr. Serjeant Cox has published such a fair
array of facts as he might have done; he has rather
selected those wliich support his own speculations. Lor
instance, there is an intimate friend of his own—a gen¬
tleman of high position in life and of [good name-
through whose mediumship Mr. Seijeant Cox has seen
his own heavy dining table rising from the floor in day¬
light, and the learned serjeant in a very straightforward
manner testifies publicly to the truth of what he ob¬
served upon the occasion. But why should he stop
here? Why should he not further state that this same
friend of his gets messages through writing medium-
ship from persons unknown to him, who give their
names and addresses, who enter into details of their
family and public life, and whose statements, wherever
it has been possible to attempt to verify them, have
not been found in any single instance to be false. Only
a few weeks ago this same gentleman had. a message
| from, one of the highest dignitaries of the. English Pro-
i testant Church, who died more than a hundred years
jago. On inquiring into the matter, not only were the
particulars given found to be accurate, but the hand¬
writing, which was a very peculiar one, was found to
be identical; the signature was exact, and the medium
knew nothing of this spirit or of his handwriting until
he made inquiries after the message had been given; he
then obtained a copy of one of the deceased ecclesiastic’s
letters with very much difficulty. How did psychic force
do this ? What a remarkably intelligent force psychic
force must be ! If psychic force continues to display
intelligence like this, it is to be hoped that Mr. Seijeant
Cox will be able to lay up a good stock of it in a bottle
THE SPIRITUALIST.
153
March 27, 1874.
and set it to do clerks’ work in his office. Mr. Cox
ought to explain why he accepts and publishes one
description of facts, but omits to publish a second series
of facts coming through the same medium. He
might argue, speaking from a legal and material¬
istic point of view, that, in the case of the motion
of the table, it was a matter of exact science-^
a thing which he observed for himself, and which camq
to him independently of all the errors which are more
or less incidental to all human testimony, whereas the
authenticity of writing mediumship depends to a greater
or less extent upon the testimony of the medium, and
not upon the knowledge of the observer. But here the
Spiritualist would step in and say it is a great blessing
that the laws of nature are so ordained, that man cannot
enter far into the temple of spirit upon such physical
evidence as the uncompromising materialist demands, but
that only those who believe that the moral and spiritual
integrity of the human being may be as firm and
reliable as the integrity of a bar of metal, are entitled
to receive much of the knowledge of the things of
heaven which true Spiritualism can confer.
The book is written in a very genial spirit. It con¬
tains no disagreeable remarks about Spiritualism or
Spiritualists, nor does its author adhere in a bigoted
way to his psychic force speculations. He says that
he will not deny that spirits may be at the root of
many of the manifestations, but that the fact is not
'proved. If we grant this for the sake of argument, it
does not appear that the psychic force theory is the
best one which could have been framed, because it is
more rational to suppose that a multitude of forces
rather than a single force are thrown off from the.
human body. Yery many gases, organic acids, and
liquids are thrown off from the body by the perspiration
alone; and if so many physical substances are thus
thrown off in an invisible form by the body, why limit
its imponderable emanations to one ?
Serjeant Cox has spent a life-time in the observation
of psychological phenomena, consequently a book con¬
taining so many of the results of educated experience,
is not to be lightly dealt with, or summarily disposed of
in one review only. It, is a deeply interesting and most
valuable work, but, deals with Spiritualism as a legal
advocate would attack an opponent, rather than as a
scientific observer would fairly present both sides of the
question in the search after truth. Baron Kirkup
wrote to Mr. Crookes some experimental objections to
Serjeant Cox’s views, which Mr. Cox utterly ignores in
his book. Baron Kirkup recently published:—
I have had a demonstration of letter-carrying by spirits
more perfect than any of the former ones, of which there have
been four or five. I myself wrote the letter alone in my room
to a lady at Bologna, distant 110J miles by railroad. The
spirits Annina and Regina promised to take it and wait for an
answer. It was a long, one, very precise, and, on large paper.
That and the two jourheys—221 miles by railroad—were all
accomplished in two hours and thirty-five minutes I The dis¬
tance by straight line is less, of course ; how much Ido not
know. The answer was thrown into my lap. I saw it in the
air coming. The lady herself has since arrived from Bologna
and confirmed what she wrote, and I knew her handwriting.
She is the mother of Annina.
As Mr. Seijeant Cox ignores the facts which Baron
Kirkup sent to England for his especial benefit, as he
ignores the fact of Professor Hare having sent a mes¬
sage many miles to his bankers by. spirits, and as he
ignores all the practical facts which we long ago pub¬
lished. en masse as calculated to overthrow his “psychic
force” argument, we do not. see the use of further con?
tention with him on the subject, and think his other¬
wise admirable memoir partakes more of the character
of the brief of a special pleader, than of the fair state¬
ment of both sides of a case which should characterise
the writings of a philosopher.
AN ALLEGED “AMENDE HONORABLE.”
BY PBINCE WITTGENSTEIN.
The Medium and Daybreak newspaper of the 6th of
March mentions (page 166) my name in a way which,
however disinclined I may feel to continue a kind of
discussion to which I am entirely unaccustomed, never¬
theless forces me to send a rectification, intended to be
my last word on this most delicate theme.
Mr. Burns has been strangely mistaken in entitling,
as an “ amende honorable,” my kindly-meant and
loyal explanation of a letter which you kindly published
some weeks ago. Seeing him take as personally
aggressive a word which certainly was not meant as
such, and not being even aware what his remarks
alluded to—as I do not keep his newspaper—I did not
hesitate in giving the wished-for explanation, hoping
thus to cut short all further discussion. I did it the
more willingly, as I had no reason or intention what¬
ever of offending him, nor of refusing an honest man
the only satisfaction which the social difference existing
between us allowed me to give.
Mr. Burns having misunderstood the delicacy of my
proceeding, I am obliged to decline, as not at all
answering my purpose, the title which (probably in
ignorance of the French language) he has found good
to give to the article in question. “ Faire amende
honorable ” means in French, “ humbly to beg pardon,”
and Mr. Burns may be quite certain that this was not
what I meant.
I also protest against his not having published the
whole of my letter; and I refuse to accept—as quite
improper, if addressed to me—the sort of magisterial
admonition with which he closes it.
Be kind enough, Sir, to admit to the publicity of
your columns a defence, the awkward necessity of which
is quite new to me, and believe me, at the same time,
your very thankful and obedient,
Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
St. Petersburg, 17th March, 1874.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
A philosophical romance, entitled The Honeymoon,
written by Count de Medina Pomar, the youthful son of
the Countess of Caithness, will be published in a few weeks
by Messrs. Triibner and Co. It contains many discourses
upon religious and philosophical subjects. From having read
a large portion of the work, we are able to state that, it will
be a most valuable addition to the literature of Spiritualism,,
as it unfolds a system of religious philosophy which is sure to
commend itself to thoughtful readers. Count Pomar pub¬
lished two works in Spanish upon religious and philosophical
questions before he was seventeen years of age. The forth¬
coming book will be his first work in English.,
Messrs. Appletons, the great American publishing firm, are
about to produce a new American Encyclopaedia, in which
they will expend the enormous sum of half a million of dol¬
lars. The editor, we are informed, has selected a well-known
Spiritualist to write the article on Spiritualism, by which a
guarantee is gained that ample justice will be done to the
subject.
It is a matter of experience that materialisation seances
are of no use for proselytising purposes; the phenomena are-
too unbelievable, and not always presented under test con¬
ditions,
154
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iloetrj).
THE GHOST THAT JIM SAW.
(Kansas Pacific Railway).
1873.
“ WHY, as to that,” said the engineer,
“ Ghosts aint things we are apt to fear.
Spirits don’t fool with levers much,
And throttle-valves don’t take to such;
And as for Jim,
What happened to him
Was one-half fact and t’other half whim!
Running one night on the line, he saw
A house—as plain as the moral law—
Just by the moonlit hank; and thence
Oame a drunken man, with no more sense
Than to drop on the rail,
Flat as a flail,
As Jim drove by with the midnight mail.
Down went the patents—steam reversed.
Too late I for there came a ‘ thud.’ Jim cursed.
As his fireman, there in the cab with him,
Kinder stared in the face of Jim,
And says, | What now ?’
Says Jim, ‘What now!
I’ve just run over a man—that’s how l’
The fireman stared at Jim. They ran
Back, but they never found house nor man—
Nary a shadow within a mile.
Jim turned pale, but he tried to smile;
Then on he tore,
Ten mile or more,
In quicker time than he’d made afore.
Would you believe it ?—the very next night
Up rose that house in the moonlight white;
Out comes the chap, and drops as before;
Down goes the brakes, and the rest encore.
And so, in fact,
Each night that act
Occurred, till folks swore Jim was cracked.
Humph!—let me see. It’s a year now, most,
That I met Jim, East, and says, ‘How’s your ghost?'
‘Gone,’ says Jim; ‘ and more, it’s plain
That ghost don’t trouble me again.
I thought I shook
That ghost when I took
A place on an Eastern line. But look:
What should I meet, the first trip out,
But that very house that we talked about,
And that self-same man! “ Well,’’ says I, “ I guess
It’s time to stop this yer foolishness.”
So I crammed on steam,
When there came a scream
From my fireman—and it broke my dream:
“You’ve killed somebody.” Says I, “ Not much!
I’ve been thar often, and thar aint no such;
And now I’ll prove it” Back we ran,
And—dam my skin!—but thar was a man
On the rail, dead—
Smashed in the head.
‘ Now I call that meanness!’ That’s all Jim said.”
Brei Harts.
(RoxuspontittM.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRIT MESSAGES AND PHYSICS.
Sir,—Your issue of the 20th of March contains a letter
signed “ P.” criticising the “ want of knowledge displayed by
spirit teachers generally of the truths of natural science,” in
which the writer expresses his opinion that Hudson Tuttle
and Andrew Jackson Davis, in their descriptions of the
spiritual spheres, have been “ misled by spiritual information.”
When I commenced reading your correspondent’s letter, I
fully expected that a writer who professes to criticise a
description by spirits of spirit conditions and surroundings,
would have proceeded to give some convincing reason for his
conclusions. I fail, however, to find any sound reasons for
his expression of incredulity. He says, ” in opposition, how¬
ever, to these doctrines of the spirits, which I cannot but con¬
sider as imaginative and erroneous, I would allege that the
atmosphere immediately surrounding our earth seems to have
been alone intended for the support of living creatures then
he proceeds to illustrate this somewhat bold expression of
opinion, by a reference to the experience of aeronauts who
testify to the impossibility of “human beings” existing at any
great altitude above the earth’s surface, on account of the ex¬
treme cold. He tells us that at fifty miles distant “ the strong¬
est spirits” would be frozen solid, and the temper atm e would
“ paralyse the power of their wings.” (?)
Really, sir, I think this is carrying scientific criticism a little
March 27,1874.
bit too far. For us to dictate to spirits what is possible or
impossible for their constitutions to endure is, to say the least,
rather presumptuous, seeing that we know scarcely anything
about the nature and conditions of the spirit body; and there¬
fore it Seems to me absurd to assume that because embodied
spirits cannot resist the action of extreme cold and heat,
therefore disembodied spirits must be equally sensitive. If
this were so, then to make the analogy complete we must
admit that a disembodied spirit might be frozen or burnt to
death just the same as an embodied spirit, in short there would
be no immortality. Seeing that it is a well-authenticated
fact that spirits are not subject to the same laws which afEect
matter—that they can pass through fiery furnaces and solid
walls uninjured, and even assist spirits in the body to do the
same, surely it is very illogical to conclude that we are justi¬
fied in rejecting their own descriptions of their own conditions
and surroundings—of which we know nothing—simply because
it is incompatible with the experience of spirits who are
hampered with a material body.
As to St. Paul’s opinion, which your correspondent quotes,
I confess I fail to see its scientific value.
Manchester, 23rd March, 1874. Fritz.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sib,—With reference to the unauthorised publication of
Mr. J. Traill Taylor’s name as one of our Oounoil, I wrote to
him on the 14th inst., to the following effect. I omit names
and unimportant passages:—
Dear Sib,—Your name was published as being on our Council by an
unfortunate mistake. Your letter to Mr. Blyton of the 2nd inst. was read
at the Council meeting on the 3rd. A member then undertook to see
you, and almost pledged himself that he would induce you to reverse your
decision.
Under these circumstances, the secretary (wrongly) omitted to erase
your name from the list sent to the Spiritualist.
It is clear, from your sending your disclaimer to the Medium, that you
felt very keenly indeed the injury done you in publishing your name with¬
out your sanction.
So far as I am indirectly responsible for this blunder, I therefore the
more regret it, and beg to offer you my most sincere expression of that
regret.—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) AiOernon Jot, Hon. Sec.
■ Mr. Taylor’s letter of the 2nd was not an absolute refusal.
In saying that a member pledged himself to induce Mr.
Taylor to reverse his decision, I said too much. But’of course
the publication of his name was wrong. Algebnon Jot.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate,
London, S.W., March 22,1874.
Sir,—It is gratifying to see that the Association is making
sure, though it may be slow progress. Undue haste in the
formation of such a society would, in my opinion, be very
undesirable; and I venture to say that the London committee
is deserving of all praise for its perseverance and diligence in
dealing with the matter, especially when we consider the
opposition and difficulty with which it had to contend.
That such an organisation is desirable and needed is, I am
persuaded, becoming every day more apparent both in Lon¬
don and the provinces, and I am sure Spiritualists must be
gratified at seeing the broad, unsectarian basis on which the
Association rests. I trust we may all work hand-in-hand with
each other and with the angel-world, that our Association
may be successful in breaking up the fallow ground of public
opinion, and that, by “ giving facilities for studying and inves¬
tigating the phenomenal facts that underlie Spiritualism,”
its grand philosophy and truly elevating tendency may become
apparent. Permit me to express the hope, that a healthy,
active central committee may be effectually supported by
provincial local organisation^, as well as by individual mem¬
bers, and that thus healthy, active life may characterise the
society, so that through its means heaven and earth may be
brought into closer union, and a higher measure of spiritual
and moral blessing to mankind be the result.
Fairfield, Liverpool. John Lamont.
MRS. SOMERYILLE. ON GHOSTS.
Sir,—Mrs. Mary Somerville, famous for her literary abilities
and scientific attainments, whose profound works on astronomy
and the physical sciences were highly prized by such men as
Arago, Whewell, Laplace, Sir John Herschel, and indeed by
all scientific men, writes from Edinburgh, in her memoirs
(p. 65), A.D. 1796-7
“I was very fond of ghost and witch stories, both of which
were believed in by most of the common people, and many of
the better educate^ I heard an old naval officer say that he
March 27, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
never opened his eyes after he was in bed, I asked him why ?
and he replied, ‘ For fear I should see something.’ Now, I did
not actually believe in either ghosts or witches, but yet, when
alone in the dead of the night, I have been seized with a dread
of I know not what. Few people will understand me if I say
I was eerie> a Scotch expression for superstitious awe. I have
been struck, on reading the life of the late Sir David
Brewster, with the influence the superstitions of the age and
country had on both learned and unlearned. Sir David was
one of the greatest philosophers of the day. He was only a
year younger than I; we were both born in Jedburgh, and
both were influenced by the superstitions of our age and
country in a similar manner, for he confessed that, thouglf he
did not believe in ghosts, he was eerie when sitting up late
in a lone house that was haunted. This is a totally different
thing from believing in spirit-rapping, which I scorn.”
Clearly Mrs. Somerville did, “ believe in ghosts and witches,”
though she tried hard not to know it.
Junior United Service Club, ALGERNON JOY.
March 23rd, 1874.
MESMERISM.
SIR,—For the purpose of carrying out some theoretical and
practical investigations into the phenomena of Spiritualism,
I should be glad of co-operation of anyone of your numerous
readers who possesses the mesmeric power in an eminent
degree, and should esteem it a favour if they would communi¬
cate with me, stating terms, &c., in the first place to the ad¬
dress hereunder given.
If you will kindly give this a place in your columns, I have
no doubt that I shall by gratified with a reply, and which may
lead in a result of mutual satisfaction. APODOXIS.
Care of A. Warrand, Esq., 27, Ludgate-hill,
March 18, 1874.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES.
Sib,—I wrote a letter on July 15th, 1873. You were good
enough to put it in your paper under the head of “ Psycho¬
logical Experiences,” and signed “ Ennesfallen.” I regret to
say that since then no one has had the kindness to answer
my questions. I heartily wish I had either never read one
line on the subject of Spiritualism, or could see enough to
make me thoroughly believe in it.-
The old friend I spoke of in the letter referred to, I have
since ascertained was what men call dead when I heard the
knocks; but when we saw what we fully believed to be him,
he was alive, and at the other side of the globe. He died
seventeen days after.
Once before, I saw a relation passing our windows, but at the
time the poor lady was ill in bed, and died a few days after¬
wards. Will some one tell me what power would have enabled
me to see these two beings while yet in the flesh; also what I
have referred to in my former letter. If I have any medial
power, of what order would it be, and how could I develop it ?
Any information will be thankfully received by
March 23rd, 1874. Ennisfalleh.
INNER BREATHING,
Sir,—I have recently received a few short messages (given
by spirit writing mediumship), upon the subject of the develop¬
ment of the “ Inner Respiration.” Those of your readers who
are at all interested in the subject, would, I think, be helped
by reading the following extracts, if you think them worth
inserting in your paper. I only offer them as suggestions
from the spirit land, which may perhaps lead others to seek
information upon this deeply important subject.
A friend was with me, and in reply to a question put by her,
in reference to our conversation, the following was written:—
“ The inner spiritual sympathises fully with, and is the
inner type of, the outer.
” Therefore, whatever organ in the human frame is the
most sensitive, will be the first to feel the revelation from
inner to outer, which is often the revelation of the Divine
Spirit,” which Divine Spirit brings the ‘ inner breathing’ or
‘ respiration,’ as very distinct from, and of a far higher order,
than any teaching from the lower and inferior spirits.
” Every human being has the germ of the Divine Spirit
as its essence^ or life could not be.
“ It is a distinct life, and also a distinct entity, from the
life-spirit of the man, which becomes (when in the spirit land)
the spirit that communicates.
“ When the holy germ of Divine life wells up from the in¬
terior life, to the outer, then is the man the vehicle of the
holy breath, the Logos.
“ In Christ this was the whole life, He possessed that in its
entirety. This made Him God only. ****’’
Question—“ What is this inner respiration?”
“ It is the inbreathing of the Holy Spirit. The uprising of
the inner germ, to meet the outer essence.”
Question—“ What do you mean by outer essence ? ”
“ God in the universe, meets the God in the human, as dis¬
tinct from the spirit life of man alone.”
Question—i Can any one possess this gift ? ”
“Not unless the whole spirit soul-life is in harmony with
the Divine.”
Question—“ May not some be prevented from obtaining it
whilst on earth, by the force of adverse surroundings ? ”
“ Yes; but the highest sphere_cannot be reached, until this
breathing is attained.”
Question—“ If the hindrance has been mainly due to un¬
controllable earthly circumstances, what then ? ”
“ Then the advance will be rapid, when in the spirit land.”
Later on, after .my friend had gone, I received the fol¬
lowing:—
“ The Spiritof God, in man,uprising, and becomingconjoined
with the very essential essence of the God-head, which is the
Christ descending in persona, constitutes the second coming
of Christ, the reign personal of the Divine in the human.”
St. Leonards. F.J. T.
AN ERROR IN “THE BANNER OF LIGHT.”
Sir,—Permit me to correct an erroneous statement, made
in an article compiled by myself, and inserted in The Banner
of Light (Boston, U.S.), of February 7th, 1874. There
I speak of the Spiritualist as the “ second oldest” paper con¬
nected with the movement in this country. A friend having
called my attention to the remark quoted, I find, upon refer¬
ence to the files of papers I possess, that I am in error. For
the sake of exactitude, permit me to append the dates of the
appearance of the Spiritualist and the Medium. The
Spiritualist first appeared November 19th, 1869. The Medium
was first issued April 8th, 1870. The error was purely unin¬
tentional on my part. J. J. Morse.
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
EVIDENCE BY DEMONSTRATION,
“FACTSare independent of fashion, taste, and caprice, and are subject to
no code of criticism. They are more useful, perhaps, even when they con¬
tradict, than when they support received doctrines; for our theories are
only imperfect approximations to the real knowledge of things.”—Sir H.
Davy.
“ Every branch of human knowledge hath its proper principles, its proper
foundation, and method of reasoning; and if we endeavour to build it upon
any other foundation, it will never stand firm and stable.”—Reid.
Sir,—No doubt, the mind is subject to illusions which only
a more complete knowledge can determine ; hence it is said,
that it is our judgments, and not our senses, that deceive us.
For instance, any one unacquainted with all the facts con¬
cerned, will declare most positively that the sun moves,
exclaiming, “ Can I doubt the evidence of my senses, and
when confirmed by the evidence of all other observers ? ” Nay,
does not Bacon assure us that “ man knows no more than he
has observed,” and that more he neither knows nor can
know.” The error was in judging before having observed all
the correlated facts, as in supposing that the cart was moving
of itself before having got sight of the horse, or in concluding
that the train on the railway was moving itself before having
any acquaintance with steam power. But further knowledge
settles the question, both in respect to the train in motion and
the seeming motion of the sun in the heavens. Nay, you
have but to travel by the train to see, or seem to see, the
hedges move, whilst you, in the moving carriages, appear to
be at rest; also, transfer the position in regard to the sun and
the earth, on which you are also a traveller, and you perceive
the error and reason of the illusion in both cases—or, at least,
the astronomer does, because it is he alone that can fully
appreciate the whole position, and verify the fact in all its
bearings. And so far, Dr. Carpenter is right, as quoted by
“ A Diluted Maniac,” who certainly does not seem to be more
mad than the rest of us.
But now, suppose that Dr. Tyndall, for instance, in the
Royal Institution, were to mingle two colourless liquids
together which in combination at once became intensely
blue or red, are we not to believe the evidence of the senses ?
“ Oh! but,” says the sceptical Carpenter, “ this dove-tailing
156
THE SPIHITUALIST.
March 27, 1874.
may be very good joiner’s work—all Very well—but it may be
a trick, or a fiction of the imagination.” “You think so,”
replies the experimentalist, “ then be good enough to try it
yourself, and if you cannot rely on the materials here present,
get others of the nature indicated, and try to make the experi¬
ment yourself at your home.” The basis of certainty
in these matters depends on the means of verification. It is
the same with regard to the sounding and sensitive flame—
another astounding and more recent novelty—in respect to
which also verification is open to all. Take then, another
case—here are three very innocent materials, and you see how
small is the effect on putting a light to them one after the
other ; but put them together and stand aside, and let but a
spark fall on the combined elements, and the three innocents,
“ the Trinity in unity,” produce the very devil, in so far as
powder explodes with tremendous force. This, too, you may
verify by your own firesides at home. And precisely so with
the facts of Spiritualism. At first declared to be all delusion
or a trick ; then it is pronounced to be an illusion of the
senses ; and again, it is held to be a wrong conclusion ; and
lastly, it is coolly accepted, but in the view that there is
nothing new in it, such like phenomena of more or less of an
abnormal nature, having occurred from time to time, as all
history affirms'; all very curious matter, no doubt, but mere
exceptional instances of no scientific value or significance any
way.
In such a fashion has been the reception of the new light
that has burst in upon us in respect to the nature of man and
mind. Yet the professors walk in darkness, hood-winked by
old notions and mechanical theories ; and even the physi¬
ologists are all behind hand as usual, as if these very excep¬
tional instances were not.the very facts required to cast light
upon the rule, as with the corresponding irregular or deviating
instances so important in regard to every other science, and as
such so greedily taken hold of as they fortunately occur. Dr.
Carpenter relies on common sense—but common sense de¬
clared the sun to move ! I rely on common sense too, mean¬
ing by which the agreement of competent enquirers after full
investigation, which is a further or logical sense, or what we
may call the true essence of common sense as the result of
analysis, F. G. S.
MR. HERNE AT BRIGHTON.
Mr. Herne gave a public seance at the Quadrant Hotel,
Queen’s-road, Brighton, last Saturday evening. It was at¬
tended by some sixteen persons, exclusive of the medium;
Lord Bangor, Lord Pevensey, and Mr. Martheze being
amongst the gentlemen present. There were half-a-dozen
ladies, two of whom were friends of the first-mentioned
nobleman; a third lady being introduced as “ Mrs. Dickinson,
a professional medical medium from America.” The ” mani¬
festations ” were of a decided character. Without claiming
for them the merit of being instructive, they were, it must be
owned, sometimes amusing ; and Mr. Bray goes so far as to
pronounce them expensive; as he will probably be called
upon to pay for the broken furniture, he may not be without
grounds for arriving at this conclusion.
The guitar was the instrument first selected for manipula¬
tion, and it “tum-tummed ” and floated in the air apparently
for some little time. Only those in the immediate vicinity of
the medium, however, were, as far as could be learnt, touched
by it; the ladies and gentlemen at the further end of the
table begging in vain that they also might be favoured with
a gentle knock. At one time, judging from the sound, the
instrument was taken quite behind the medium’s chair and
played near to the ground ; then it came back and soared
above the table; at any rate, a dark object could be distin¬
guished moving about under the gaselier by those who were
facing the window, which, though curtained up, did not
entirely exclude the light. The musical-box and the tam¬
bourine were next performed upon, and then the bell was
shaken vigorously several times. “ John King’s” gruff voice
was the first to announce itself, but his stay was very short.
A few hurried and decidedly laconic remarks, and he gave
place to his livelier companion, “ Peter.”
The “ spirit” of the defunct clown is always a favourite at
these seances ; he still affects to be funny, and he has .certainly
no cause to complain of want of encouragement. On this
occasion everybody appeared to be desirous of utilising
“Peter.” “Please touch me, Peter.” “Oh! Peter do come
over to me,” and similar appeals came from all parts of the
room. It would have required a supernatural power to have
satisfied all these demands; and “ Peter” was not disposed to
lend himself for any such purpose. He did what he liked,
and those who asked to be touched were occasionally touched
a trifle harder than they bargained for. Some of “ Peter’s”
repartees were smarter than usual, and provoked much
merriment. “ What’s my age, Peter?” enquired Lord Bangor.
“ How should I know,” instantly replied the clown; “ I wasn’t
in everybody’s birth-chamber when they were brought into
the world.” “Well,” his lordship next asked, “ can you tell
me what I’ve had for dinner?” “No ; I don’t want to make
a post-mortem upon you,” answered Peter, somewhat pettishly.
“ Peter do put your hand in my face,” next besought an
elderly lady; to which the clown responded by endeavouring
to relieve the lady of her bonnet.
A soft whispering voice was now heard about the medium,
and those who sat near to him were touched about the head
and face with the speaking tubes. Mr. Martheze, who sat to
the right of the medium, was favoured with a communication,
the purport of which, however, did not transpire. Several of
those present now expressed a wish to have some more decided
physical manifestations. “Will the spirits fetch something from
outside ? ” “ Bring in all the hats and coats from the other
room 1” “Put the sofa on the table !” and so on. To this
last request there was a very general objection ; the ladies
especially exclaiming against it. It seemed, however, to meet
with the approbation of the “ spirits,” for almost directly after¬
wards the table was violently upheaved, a cloth was thrown
at one end of the table, and an antimacassar flung at the
gentleman next to me ; the medium cried out that his chair,
was being pulled away from him, and several cracks occurred
as if the furniture was being broken. The ladies began to
get alarmed, and the wife of the landlord was heard to express
fears for her goods and chattels. The medium, too, appeared
to be apprehensive that some evil spirits had got possession
and were maliciously bent on destroying the furniture.
Amid all this disturbance, some asking for lights, and
others requesting that nothing should be done, the sofa was
violently pushed up against me, and as I had no wish to be
jammed against the wall I resisted the pressure with my
shoulder. In a moment the sofa was dropped—for it had
been partially lifted up at one end—and two slaps were almost
simultaneously heard. Of one of these I was the recipient,
the blow coming pretty smartly by the side of my head; the
other being directed to the face of unoffending medium. This
brought things to a crisis, and the general feeling was now in
favour of the gas being turned on. When the lights were lit
the medium was found to have a very red face, and was heard
to complain of faintness; and the leg of one chair and the
back of another were found to have been been broken off.
This was considered quite enough for one sitting, and the
visitors dispersed.—Sussex Daily News, March 23rd.
The soiree of the National Association will come off at
the “ Cannon-street Hotel,” on the 15th April; it is known
that the attendance will be large.
The Position oe Women.—In accordance with Mrs. Cora
L. Y. Tappan’s special desire, a committee is being formed
for the purpose of engaging St. George’s or some other large
hall, for a proposed inspirational address on “ The Position of
Woman in the State.” If arrangements can be made, the
lecture will be given towards the end of April. Ladies and
gentlemen are earnestly requested to join the committee, or
in some manner to co-operate in the undertaking. Letters
addressed to J. Thornton Hoskins, Esq., 5, Connaught-square,
will receive immediate attention.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
F.—This correspondent writes from a city which is the centre of
much culture and education, about the harm done to the cause of
Spiritualism there, by the visit of a person who has been much
“written up” by a Spiritual journal. The statements in the
letter are of sueh a nature that they should not in any case be
published anonymously, and they should be made known to the
• public through the columns of the paper by which our corre¬
spondent was misled, which is in honour bound to correct the
unreliable information. We desire to keep such disagreeable
matters out of these pages as much as possible.
R. K.—It is the old story of the furious jealousy of each other
which is the characteristic of most physical mediums; the harm
they do, especially in the provinces where from inexperience
people give more attention to their statements about each other
than they deserve, is very great. They are frequently persons
fond of physical pleasures, and furiously driven by their passions.
These remarks do not apply to those high class physical
mediums who never make statements detrimental to other
mediums.
March 27, 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Pacts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, “ Crown Hotel,” George-square, Glasgow, Scotland.
MRS. WOODEORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address',^!,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
C.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MR. W. Gr. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write.
DR. JOHN HUNTER and DR. MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o’clock daily.
M
RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag¬
netic Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford, Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London; Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
■ Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Virgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and "appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”— Standard,
April 1th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’’—LoncUm Review, Feb. Xbth, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 1th, 1868.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By A. J. (“Iota.”) Printed and published by T. Scott.
Price One Penny.
London; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton. ,
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery.
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
PhUosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
' Powers.
21. The Mechanism Of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
241 The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the WiU.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima,
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural,
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with ahold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiy readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; - a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just published,
The second yolume of “what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
C0NIENTS
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Ofthe Intelligent Motive Forces.
8, The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.,
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
' Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
H. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon-
- sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VL History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of. Artificial Somnambulism
VIII. Supersensuous Percep
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
26. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
HOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
London: LONGMAN & Co., Patemoster-row.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tolbe had of W, H. Terry, 96, RusseU-street Melbourne
all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 27, 1874
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spibititalism: deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. VJ. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace,Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the. time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
InquiebeS into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be toad® that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
^Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediuiaghip than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Bead Q0ces.-BBOWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insubances against Loss oe Damage by Fieb may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Rbtuens.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and .on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock. ,
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER¬
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the chubch).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Newspaper.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of. Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Mblbouenh, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world, Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
'Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed,
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOE CASH.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E, W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London, E.O.
