JSKflfKTERED AS A NEWSPAPER,
SK® joUf^Ka^ f^YdSo^o^idS^ ^di^>fcis<.
#Ib.esf jtxrjiteteb' toxtlj Spntnalxsm iit <&xmi
>THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346. and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazipnale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 231.—(Vol. X.—No. 4.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents,
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Emily Kislingbury
and 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci 37
The Apparition of Major Blomberg   ... ... 38
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances. By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci. ... 39
Spiritualism in Holland      40
The Human Voice Considered Psychologically. By Pro¬
fessor Charles J. Plumptre   ... 40
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Clairvoyance
not Thought-Reading—The Psychology of the Human
Voice—One of Dr. Carpenter’s Inaccuracies 41
Popular Errors about Dr. Slade   42
A Spirit Hand ...      42
Dr. Slade’s Seances. (With Illustration.) 42
The Republication of Gregory’s Animal Magnetism  42
The Chief Vice of the Age. A Sermon by the Rev. H. R.
Haweis, M.A. ...   ...   43
Poetry:—The Fright of Rowley Hill, by Henry Henderson.
A Surprise, by Mrs. Edna Hall, of Boston, U.S 45
Correspondence:—The Spiritualism of Dr. Robert Cham¬
bers—A Seance with Mr. Eglinton—Help for Mrs. Law¬
rence—Mr. Riko’s Work on Spiritualism—Vaccination
Direct from the Calf—William Lawrence—Healing Me-
diumship ... U v   46
The Slade Appeal  '  ... 47
The Utterances of a Mouthpiece of a Conservative Govern¬
ment . ...      t,   47
Spiritualism in Liverpool  47
American Intervention in the Slade Case 47
Bigh Court of Justice, Exchequer Division, January 19th—
Monck. Appellant, and Hilton, Respondent  48
,Dr. Tyndall on Spontaneous Generation...     48
Paragraphs:—Fortnightly Meetings, 39; Re Lawrence, 42;
The Happy Man   48
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, aha is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the Eriglish-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to . its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, E.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
‘Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.;! Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church. (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougaU Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling¬
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Mar these; Mr. J. M. Peebles :(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
-Richardson, MD. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedJKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States,'4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-piace,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O.
EIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Soufhampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Ob Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOSOFT, Manager.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientiflo subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same bouse, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may he hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
N.B.—All new subscriptions paid from this date are avail¬
able to December 31,1877.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the Ith, 8th, and Stk of February, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received
1. TheBestTests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World ?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means of Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religious Influence.
All papers to be sent to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain the property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
The next Fortnightly Meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will be held on Monday next,
29th instant, at 8 p.m. Subject: Adjourned Discussion on
Dr. Carter Blake’s Paper, “Ancient Thought and Modern
Spiritualism.”
The meetings are free to Members and their friends.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanee, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year.
*13 APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
JLAi MESSENGER fob 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
With Ephkbmis, Thirteen Stamps.
Loudon: Catty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.O.
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The few: Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus,
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. AH the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,’’ and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on appheation to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
E
AST END SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION,
15, St. Peter's Road, Mile End, E.
THE FIRST QUARTERLY TEA MEETING
Will he held at the above Institution, on Sunday, February
4th. Tea at 5 p.m.; to be followed by a Conference on “ The
Present Position of Spiritualism,’’ to commence at 7 o’clock.
Tickets for tea, Is. each. Confeience free. Several mediums
expected. Friends will oblige by applying for tickets before
the above date. E. W. Wallis, Manager.
BRIXTON ' PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY Tl&E
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier an Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyma
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
11
THE SPIEITUALIST,
Jan. 26, 1877,
^BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Fstablisheb 1873.)
President*.
AiA*«n.i»v Calder> Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-viUas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hltchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington.sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-squftrc, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. 1 . . - T.T
Massey, C, C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-piace, W.
Boeers, E. D , Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin B., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-oomtt-'on, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.I)., Douglas House,, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-bufldings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Bichmond Hill,
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Bev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Bichmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Eichmond-hill.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. Hi, 7. Obersteln-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, B., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Bochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Itdpiey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.X.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Bichmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Eev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Bichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Beimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Kogers, Mrs.E.Dawson,Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa, S E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Bedcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Bedcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Tapp, G. B., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park,pBlackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, B. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Bandolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., Ll.M., PostsBestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, Hf, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-oommon, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. < Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Kussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Bussia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Bussie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Bassim Pacha, Khan de Bassim Pacha aBahdjdCapoussou,
Gonstantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Bue de Trevise. Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Bussian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Boi de Borne, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bailway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Biko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The BeV. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Gonstant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity,Germany.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Kussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Kue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Kace-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vcmon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Bue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Bue de Kocroi, Paris.
Bev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Eritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Bue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Bue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Bue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
LondonJg.W.
Captain B. F Burton, F.B.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S., Kosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Kue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. B. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Bue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Ncwlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,'
Bue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
. T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi-
, denk—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad^Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers fob Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rriHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
/NALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
Vy ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Maeshadl & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 6s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “ Grannie ”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tayistock-square, W.C.
MRS.. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E. •
Paris.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
'R. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—35, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
London, W.O.
'RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
• Address as above.
MR. FRANK HERNE, medium, at home on
Sundays, for Spiritualists only, at 8 o’clock. Attends
at the house of investigators. Address, 3, Rockmead-road,
South Hackney, Victoria-park, near the French Hospital.
Seances for Healing and Trance Mediumship on Thursdays, at
3 and 8.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience- of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manaoeb—Mrs. A. O. Burke
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A, Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. G. O. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2^d., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Repubhshed from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
lO CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLX logiques, fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socitti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. Ths Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &o. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Voi^ujvie Tejm. K UMBER FoUI\.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 26th, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. |
BY EMILY KISLINGBURY AND C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI. [ j
The Revue Spirite for January, 1877, opens with a retro- j
spect of Spiritualism at home and abroad during the year |
1876, and contains, in addition, reports of the establishment j
and progress of certain foreign societies, to which we will j
allude further on. Altogether, this number of the Revue is j
fraught with interest and instruction. . |j
Among the events of the past year prominence is given j
to the spread of the works of Allan Kardec, by their trans- j \
lation into foreign languages. Two of these—The Spirits' j)
Book and The Mediums' Book—have been published in j
England ; a third—also like the two former, from the able j
pen of Miss Anna Blackwell—Heaven and Hell, will soon be j
ready for the press. M. Refugio Gonzales, of the Spiritualist |
Society in Mexico, has translated Allan Kardec into Spanish, j \
and in Spain itself his works are passing through a second j
edition. In Holland, M. Plate, of Arnhem, has translated j
and published at his own cost four volumes out of five of I
the Kardec series, and at Constantinople M. Angelos ||
Nicolaides has rendered The Spirits' Book into Greek, j)
Among home events, the Revue speaks with gratitude and j
satisfaction of the visit of Mr. A. Calder, president of the j
National Association of Spiritualists, and of his noble |.
though unsuccessful efforts on behalf of M. Leymarie; also I
of the short stay in Paris of the secretary of tlie same |
Association. Although the" year was one of persecution for j
French Spiritualism, the Revue is full of hope for the future, i |
and is looking forward to the pleasure of welcoming to his j
home and friends, as well as to public activity, ce cker !
prisonnier, the patient and undaunted Leymarie. j
Among the new Spiritualist societies founded during the j
year 1876, the Revue notices the Pneumatologico-psychological j
Academy at Florence from one of whose officers, Signor de j
Bozzi, a long letter is inserted. One of the chief objects of \
the society is to establish a centre of action, and to invite j
co-operation from other Italian societies as the best means j
of strengthening the cause, and of doing efficient work, j
The same declaration is made by the society of Santiago in j
Chili, as explained in a communication from Signor B. |
Etcheverry to the Paris society.
The Messager de Liege contains evidence of much activity |
among the Belgian Spiritualists. Healing mediums—of j |
which there appear to be a large number in both Belgium j
and France—are warned against an “ imprudent” use of j
their gifts in *the present watchful attitude of the adminis- j |
trators of the law. j \
A little pamphlet, issued fortnightly at Ostend, and of ! j
which we have received three numbers, called Letters to |j
Children on Spiritualism, places the subject within the com- j
prehension of all but the very youngest. We have formerly | j
seen a little Catechism with the same object. Systematised j
teaching of the truths of Spiritualism has not yet been ||
attempted in England, and in this respect we are certainly j
behind our Continental brethren. [
The Spiritualists in the sister country, Holland, are also j
entitled to their full meed of praise on the score of activity, j)
Of the work just published by M. Riko, a separate notice I j
will be given. j (
Before leaving our French correspondents, we must advert j
to an interesting and friendly letter we received some weeks j)
ago from M. Favre Clavairoz, French Consul at Trieste. ) j
This gentleman is a non-reincarnationist, and at one time j
entered into an ardent and protracted discussion with Miss | >
Anna Blackwell m the pages of Human Nature and the Revue j
Spiritualiste of M. Pierart, on “ Spiritualism versus Rein- j
carnation.” . j
Finding, to use M. Clavairoz’s own expression, that the |
“ way of polemics ” was only the “ way of strife,” he with- ili
drew from the arena; but having heard that the President
and Secretary of the British National Association had visited
the Editor of the Kardec Revue in prison, M. Clavairoz
thinks that the true path to union between the professors of
differing creeds has been opened and rejoices accordingly.
We have been glad to receive the New Year’s number of
Psychic Studies. Last year the Editor gave reasons to fear
that it might be suspended, partly because it found so little
support in Germany, and partly because it was his intention,
if possible, to found a similar magazine in Russia. The
Russian Government, however, would not permit the publi¬
cation of such a journal, and the opposition of the Scientific
Committee, followed by the persecution in England, deter¬
mined M. Aksakof to uphold the Psychic Studies in Germany
at any cost. The introductory paper in the January number
sounds a warlike note, and ends with the following words :—
u The high priests of a glorified matter-worship feel the
ground tottering beneath their altars, and in their helpless
rage imagine that they can avert the destruction of their
reign by the overwhelming force of nature, by simply enlist¬
ing the help of the police, the magistracy, and the jail! The
sight is instructive. Our present experience will be histori¬
cal. At such a time as this the standard-bearers of Spiritual¬
ism cannot desert their posts. Persecution has begun, and
victory is at hand.” The remainder of the number is chiefly
occupied with the evidence in the Slade case, the reports of
the meeting of the Psychological Society of Great Britain,
and passing Spiritualistic events in England and America.
The Buda-Pest Society’s little periodical Rejlexionen con¬
tains communications from the spirit-world, and is altogether
redolent of another atmosphere. Less storm-laden, and
more free from strife than ours, that world is not without its
sorrows. A loving wife, who in the frenzy of her grief at
the loss of her husband, had committed suicide, relates,
through a writing-medium, that she finds herself no nearer
to the object of her search for having violated the law which
decreed their temporary separation. Hence she has to work
out again on earth, by painful steps, the term of durance
which was to fit her for reunion with her husband in a higher
sphere. There is a great variety of tone and manner in the
communications published in the Rejlexionen, which makes
it an instructive and interesting little record.
The Criteria Espiritista for December, 1876, is before us.
As usual, this paper takes the lead of all the Spanish
magazines. The present number is more than usually
readable and scientific. The first article, by (if we recognise
the initials correctly) Comte de Torres Solanot, on False
Spiritualism,” points out that the greatest obstacle to the
propagation of spiritual doctrines, if not the greatest enemy
of Spiritualism, is that which we encounter among ourselves
in certain Spiritualists. Three groups are recognised by the
author. Firstly, true Spiritualists, who understand perfectly
the laws of the science; secondly, the indifferent or egos-
tical, who limit spirit-action by the canon of their own indi¬
vidual prepossessions or experiences : thirdly, the fanatical
Spiritualists, who, having just jumped from one superstition
to another, make no allowance for the ideas of those who are
scarcely initiated in the science. M. de Torres Solanot, after
some justly severe observations, wishes to draw a distinction
between those phenomena which are simulated by false
mediums, and those which may serve as the groundwork of
a future religion for humanity. Dr. Huelbes Temprado
contributes a valuable translation, from the De Rots, on the
religious period of Spiritualism. The Universalism of Signor
A. Pezzani, continued in this number, perhaps appears to us
a little vague, as the author has evidently read too much of
Comte, too little of Herbert Spencer, and scarcely appre¬
ciates at its proper level the work of Gazelles, if, indeed, he
i had read it. As usual, the general bibliographical record, as
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 26, 1877.
well as the news in this Spanish magazine, is precise and
business-like. In a forthcoming number it will reproduce
the details of several interesting stances with Dr. Slade.
The Illustration Espirita, of Mexico, contains a long article
by Don Santiago Tierra, on the Spiritualist creed, in which
it is attempted to apply the modern doctrine of the convert¬
ibility of forces to the investigation of spiritual phenomena.
Senor Juan Cordero continues his series of rather turgid
papers on the u Historical Study of Dogma; ” whilst Senor
Joaquin Catero records his ideas as to the events which
took place at the creation. Translations from the work of
M. Jacolliot, and some very fair poetry, conclude this
number.
The Revista Espiritista, of Monte Video, for November,
1876, contains an ethical article, by J. de E., on u Duties
and Rights,” which is of an elementary nature, and might
have served as a prize thesis at any small boys’ school.
The usual proceedings of the seances held by the Society of
Faith, Hope, and Charity, in Monte Video, are recorded, as
well as extracts from the Banner of Lights which excellent
paper appears to serve as the pabulum whence much of the
material of these papers is derived.
The Ley de Amor, of Merida (Yucatan), for November
16th and December 1st, are chiefly devoted to religious
discussion.
The Buen Sentido, of Lerida (Spain), is about to be
enlarged with the new year, and will contain forty pages per
month, instead of the two sheets previously published.
THE APPARITION OF MAJOR BLOMBERG.
To the Editor of the ‘‘Spiritualist.”
Sir,—The letter of M. A. Oxon, about the Blomberg
ghost story, published in your number for January 12th,
p. 15, rather surprises me. He says in the first sentence
“ it may be well to point out how such stories get altered,”
yet he only points out the alterations, without attempting
to show how they arose, and then adds, “ it is very singular
to us how, without discrepance, which is positively detri¬
mental, variations have crept into the records ? ”
Now, to my thinking, it would have been much more
singular if variations had not crept in. When two or more
histories of the same event are written by different persons
in detail, I believe it will always be found that there are
discrepancies in them, and happy would it be for the lovers
of history if it could be made certain that the discrepancies
were not positively detrimental to the main truth of the
story.
It rarely happens—has it ever happened ?—that a story
thought worth recording has been accurately written down
at the time it occurred, and that all subsequent accounts of
it have been accurately copied from the original.
Anecdotes are mostly propagated colloquially at first, and
often are not written till they have passed through many
minds, memories, mouths; and, even when there is no room
to suspect intentional falsification, it is scarcely possible
that variations should not creep in.
Comparatively few persons, even now, seriously consider
the importance of conveying nothing beyond the literal
truth of a story. But, even if they do, and a story like this
of the Blomberg Apparition runs to any length, very few
have a sufficiently tenacious memory to recollect the exact
particulars, even if the repetition is attempted shortly after
the hearing, much more if any considerable interval of time
has elapsed.
I thought this difficulty of accurate narration, even when
accuracy is aimed at, and the consequent utter unreliability
and worthlessness of oral traditions without evidence in
support of them—so far at least as details are concerned—
was well understood.
This tendency to vary is often curiously illustrated in the
game called Russian Scandal, which may be found described
in Babbage’s Passages from the Life of a Philosopher, p. 400.
Narratives of apparitions are no more exempt from such
misrepresentations than are those of a less startling charac¬
ter. Material differences are somehow grafted into them
even when the stories seem to rest on tolerably satisfactory
evidence.
That a ghost story is approved of or even vouched for as
iK correct by one of the family, to some member of which the
[ | spirit appeared, cannot in all cases be taken as in itself con-
j elusive as to its accuracy.
The famous story of the apparition of Lord Tyrone to
| Lady Beresford had been printed with more or less detail
| and blundering many times before Mr. Saville gave the
I correct account to the public in 1874, in his book called
f Apparitions: a Narrative of Facts.
Dr. Lee gave the story at length in his Glimpses of the
1 Supernatural, dated 1875, and in a note at the end of it
I (Yol. II., p. 22), says : “A member of the noble family of
j Beresford thus wrote (a.d. 1873) to a friend of the editor
| with reference to the above narrative: 4 The tradition in our
| family is entirely in favour of the truth of the spectral ap-
! pearance, and the account which I have read and return is
| in my opinion a true and faithful narration of it.”’
Notwithstanding this estimation of it, the legend as there
| related contains a host of errors, which are also found in
| the copy of one of the older manuscript accounts printed in
j The Spiritualist, Yol. YIL, p. 15. I rely upon Mr. Saville’s
I; account as being correct, because I have verified the facts
) and dates given in it by reference to as many peerages and
j family histories as I could find in the British Museum
) | Library.
Ji | Premising all this, is it not more than probable that the
II discrepancies in other ghost stories as well as in the one
| which so much puzzles M. A. Oxon, may have originated
| (without any intentional inaccuracy) in frequent repetitions
| by different persons, some of whom ultimately committed
| to paper the account as they remembered—or thought they
| remembered—it, but really with so much incorrectness that
j none of the details can be relied upon.
In my opinion it would be a useful exercise to school boys
| and girls who are inclined to give credence to the stories
| they hear, to take a large sheet of paper ruled in columns,
j and harmonise the different versions of the Blomberg
I history, and if only that in which all of them agree be re-
j tained as true but few particulars, very easily committed to
J memory, will remain.
I think all that is common to the eight accounts I have
| met with is this—that Dr. Blomberg’s father did, after his
| death, communicate to a friend some information which was
| of material importance to the welfare of his son.
The present owner of Dr. Blomberg’s property in York-
| shire might perhaps be able to give some accurate particu-
| lars of the story as to the place where it happened, the date,
j the names and rank of the officers, &c. W. Whiteab.
j High-street, Hornsey, Jan. 22,1877.
By way of assisting anyone who may be inclined to
j examine the Blomberg ghost story, I subjoin an appendix to
I my letter, containing references to the various accounts of it
| I have seen, arranged in chronological order.
No. 1. Date, 1822.
The earliest record of it I have yet met with is an entry
| in Mr. Barham’s note-book, under the date 1822. It is to
I be found printed in The Life and Letters of the Rev. R. H.
I Barham, by his son, Mr. R. H. Dalton Barham, vol. i.-p. 51.
| Mr. Dalton Barham says Mr. Barham heard it at Dr. Blom-
| berg’s own table. It is copied into The Leisure Hour for
||j 1871, p. 574. It is also to be found in theA/hya-
|| zine for 1871, p. 131, where the authority given for it is only
I Blackwood’s Magazine.” This want of precise reference is a
11 very common and very reprehensible neglect in making
r quotations, and gives investigators much trouble. The pas-
| j sage is taken from the number of Blackwood, for January,
I 1871, p. 42, where it is introduced as an extract from The
II Life of Mr. Barham, and spoken of as to all appearance
|1 “ fully authenticated.” In this version there is no appari-
| | tion, but only a voice heard.
No. 2. Date, 1828.
In 1823, another version was published in Accredited
I I Ghost Stories, by T. M. Jarvis, p. 138. It again appears in
!j Signs Before Death, by Horace Welby, p. 234. The date
r | of this work is 1825. “ M. A., Oxon,” calls this the original
|j narrative. It is exactly the same as that given by Jarvis,
\j with the exception of two quite unimportant variations in
111 the wording.
Jan. 26, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
No. 3. Date, 1840.
In Blackwood's Magazine for August, 1840, there is a
liberally written article, intituled, A Few Passages Con¬
cerning Omens, Breams, etc. It contains the Blomberg
story, but does not state the authority on which it rests.
This account is copied into the Spiritual Magazine for
1865, p. 133.
No. 4. Date, 1847.
The next in order is that given by Dr. J. M. Neale, in
The Unseen World, first edition, 1847, p. 164. In the
second edition, 1853, p. 136, the story is retained, with the
name Blomberg at full length, instead of merely the initial
B., as in the first edition. Dr. Neale says : “ This story
comes from the relation of the party principally concerned,
namely, Colonel Blomberg’s son himself.” Some of the
particulars in this report appear very strange.
No. 5. Date, 1862.
There is a very short notice of the story before us on
p. 257 of Predictions Realized in Modern Times. Now first
collected by Horace Welby, 1862. Welby says: “We are
told by Dr. Rudge that six officers ” saw the apparition one
day after dinner.” I should be very glad if any of your
readers could tell me who this Dr. Rudge was, and where his
account can be found.
No. 6. Date, 1863.
Another account, varying considerably from all the pre¬
ceding is to be found in Strange Things Among Us. By H.
Spicer, 1863, p. 103. Spicer winds up his story thus:—
“ And now for the authority: the Rev. Mr. B married
an aunt of General Powney, who related the story to the
writer’s friend and informant; the latter (a lady still living)
having herself, forty years ago, been personally acquainted
with Mr. and Mrs. B .”
No. 7. Date, 1870.
■The Life and Letters of the Rev. R. H. Barham has
already been referred to under the date 1822. The date of
that Book is 1870, and it contains two reports of the
Blomberg ghost story, varying greatly from each other. See
vol. i. pp. 51—56. Immediately after the story entered in
Mr. Barham’s note-book, under the year 1822, Mr. Dalton
Barham proceeds to say:—“ Since the foregoing pages were
prepared for the press, a very different version of the story
has reached me, furnished by a member of the family to the
head of which the Yorkshire property has descended. The
account given by my informant contains the substance of a
narrative of the circumstances under which the alleged
supernatural communication was made, drawn up by the
officer to whom it was more particularly addressed. Then
follows the second version. Both are copied into The Leisure
Hour for 1871, pp. 574, 575.
No. 8. Date, 1876.
The latest rendering of this protean stpry laid before the
world, is that communicated by Mr. Reece to Mrs. De
Morgan, and printed in The Spiritualist, vol. ix., p. 246.
Dr. Blomberg is here spoken of as a Prebendary of Bristol
Cathedral in 1825. Mr. Barham, who knew him well, calls
him a Canon of St. Paul’s in 1822.
I do not recollect any story, apparently so well authen¬
ticated, which contains such considerable variations in the
details.
When doctors differ, who can decide ? With that remark
I conclude. W. W.
Some popular lectures, chiefly upon scientific subjects, delivered by
the Earl of Caithness in various places, have just been issued by the
author in one volume, published by Mr. Triibner. The little book is
both entertaining and instructive, and will no doubt be widely read.
Fortnightly Meetings.—On Monday evening next, the 29th inst.,
the adjourned discussion on Dr. Carter Blake’s paper—“Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism ”—will take place at the fortnightly
meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Bussell-
street, W.C.
On 'Sunday next Mr. Morse will deliver two trance addresses in the
Templars Hall, Ladywood-road, Birmingham. He will also address
two public meetings in Birmingham during the following week. Mr.
Morse’s other engagements are—Newcastle-on-Tyne, Feb. 4th and 6th;
London, Feb. 7th, 8th, and 9th; British National Conference of
Spiritualists, Glasgow, Feb. 11th; Liverpool,^Feb. 18th, Cardiff, Feb.
25th.
iU
!)i
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, DOCT. SCI.
The last of the above series of seances took place on
Thursday, 17th January, with Mr. Eglinton as medium, in
the presence of ten ladies and gentlemen, most of whom
were strangers to each other and to the medium. A dark
seance around the table was commenced, Mr. Eglinton being
held by Miss Arundale and Mr. Tabor in such a manner that
they are both satisfied that any motion on his part to break
the circle would have been impossible. After a while the
voice of Joey was heard; several persons near the medium
were touched, and the small round table, on. which I had
placed a candlestick, matches, an envelope containing the
tickets used for the seance, and a lady’s work-basket, with
the usual contents, at a distance of about three feet behind
Mr. Eglinton’s back, was thrown over. The candlestick was
placed in the grate, and the candle nearly melted by heat
from the embers of the fire. The matches were thrown
about the room; the envelope was at a later date in the
evening found by myself under the fender, and the contents
of the work-basket were turned over in great disorder.
From the position in which Mr. Eglinton sat, it was impos¬
sible for him to have produced these effects without the
knowledge of the lady and gentleman holding him; and
they both state to me that he did not move. The chairs,
first of the medium, and then of the lady next him, were
forcibly dragged from under them, and afterwards, at
request, replaced where they were taken from.
Joey next proposed a cabinet seance. Mr. Eglinton’s coat
was sewn together at the breast, and his two sleeves behind
his back. A white pinafore was then fastened over his
breast. The “ fairy bells ” were placed on his knees, and
on them the book commonly used to record the names of
the visitors to seances. After the lapse of a few minutes, the
cover of the book was seen to move upwards several times,
and on one occasion a hand was seen by myself to lift this
cover. The hand appeared larger and darker than that of
Mr. Eglinton. At the invitation of Joey, who kept up a
lively conversation, Mr. G. R. Smith, of Reading, entered
the cabinet, and placed his hands on the shoulders
of the medium. During the time he remained in
the cabinet nothing took place, but the moment he
left, and before he (who was sitting next to the
cabinet) had had time to resume his seat, a large
hand was projected from between the curtains in front of
the medium. Mr. Smith certifies that Mr. Eglinton’s hands
did not move during the time he (Mr. Smith) was in the
cabinet. The same experiment was subsequently repeated
with another gentleman (a stranger) under like conditions.
The book having been taken away by myself, “Joey” re¬
quested that a slate and slate pencil be placed on the “ fairy
bells,” which served as a table on Mr. Eglinton’s knees.
This being done, and after the lapse of about twenty seconds,
a large hand was projected from between the curtains; it
took up the slate pencil, finding it apparently with great diffi¬
culty ; and holding it vertically to the slate. Writing was
heard, and the motion of the hand was seen. This was in
“ half-gas light.” The slate was forcibly thrown to the feet
of a lady present, when I watched it until the conclusion of
the seance, when I found these words written :—
“I was preaching against witchcraft 200 years ago. Now the
mediums are being persecuted. Cotton Mather.’’
No person tampered with the slate until it was picked up
by me. The pencil, which was originally about four inches
in length, was shattered and split on the ground.
The medium was then thrown down in the cabinet, chair
and all, and taken up insensible by some of the circle, while I
picked up the slate, which I had most carefully watched.
Those who have attended this series of seances, which is
now over, have reason to thank Mr. Eglinton for his tho¬
rough sincerity, simplicity, and cordiality, as well as to
render their testimony of gratitude to Mr. Charles Black¬
burn for the generosity with which he has maintained
the seances, and thereby enabled inquirers to realise by per¬
sonal observation the essential facts attending physical
mediumship.
Throughout the three series, of twelve stances each, given
under the auspices of Mr. Chas. Blackburn, between eighty
and ninety inquirers have been admitted free of charge; many
of these have attended more than once, and a large propor¬
tion have ultimately become members of the Association.
The orderly manner in which the seances have been con¬
ducted, the strict yet simple tests imposed, and the facilities
given to strangers to satisfy themselves of the bona fide
nature of the manifestations have had lasting and beneficial
results.
SPIRITUALISM IN HOLLAND.
Em Nieuw Veld Voor de Wetenschap. By A. P. Riko. Gravenhagen:
Mensing en Visser, Publishers. 1877.
This is an enormous compilation, and, perhaps, the
best book we have ever yet seen, to place in the hands of
inquirers, for it contains, nearly at length, the evidence of
Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Yarley, A. Hum¬
boldt, C. Flammarion, and M. Perty, on a number of sub¬
jects which are more or less familiar to all the readers of
The Spiritualist, but have never been previously united in
one volume. It is pleasing to see the familiar names of so
many of the chief Spiritualists in London, appearing in
Holland. The most interesting, as well as the most im¬
portant part of this work to Continental scholars, is the
efficient and excellent resum6 which is given of the Slade
case, which is brought down to a few weeks ago, with a
precision and exactitude almost unknown in foreign epitomes
of English translations. We should be glad to see Mr. Riko’s
compilation in English under one cover for distribution to
inquirers; and hope that this practical suggestion on a
useful book will be adopted. It is almost difficult to imagine
how Mr. Riko could have placed himself so thoroughly au
courant with the latest and the most trustworthy opinions
and intelligence in England. He has also a gift of using
some forcible expressions which sound better in Dutch than
English respecting the conduct of the prosecutors in the
Slade case.
THE HUMAN VOICE CONSIDERED PSYCHOLOGICALLY*
BY PROFESSOR CHARLES J. PLUMPTRE.
The object I have before me in writing this paper is to ascertain, if
possible, what are those elements in the human voice by which we
express our various feelings, emotions, and passions, and make them
perceptible to our fellow-creatures. It is clear that words alone will
not suffice, however powerful or aptly chosen, so long as they remain
simply written, and are addressed to the eye alone and not the ear;
and the great German philosopher, Wilhelm von Humboldt, who has
been so justly termed the Father of Comparative Philology, in discuss¬
ing the subject of language generally, says, “ We must exclude from the
definition of language everything but actual speaking. . . . The essence
of language lies in the living utterance, ... in that which does not
suffer itself to be apprehended in the sundered elements of written
■words. It is only by the spoken word that the speaker breathes, as it
were, his own life into the souls of his hearers. . . . Written language is
only an imperfect and mummy-like embalming, of which the highest
use is that it may serve as a means of reproducing the living
utterance.”
How true, this is may be shown by the following simple illustration.
I take just one brief speech from Shakspeare’s play of Measure for
Measure, and I read it first of all with what are termed high ranges of
the rising inflections:—
“ Go to your bosom,
Knock there and ask your heart what it doth know
That’s like my brother’s fault. If it confess
A natural guiltiness such as is his,
Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
Against my brother’s life.”
Read in this way, I think you will admit it conveys an earnest,
pathetic appeal. I read it now a second time, but with what are termed
emphatic falling inflections, and it is completely changed, and becomes
a stern command, and yet the words are identically the same.
I read it now a third time, with scarcely a variation in inflection, and
it becomes almost meaningless, and conveys no emotion whatever.
Now, what is it that causes such different feelings to be conveyed to
the mind, as I read the passage in these three different ways? Why
this : As I read it the first time, my voice was in every clause rising in
the musical scale; as I read it the second time, my voice was descending
in the musical scale ; and as I read it the third time, it was little more
than a mere gabble upon one note.
Thus it is quite clear that, so far as our souls are affected either by a
tender pathetic song well sung, or a tender pathetic speech well de¬
livered, the effect is due, at all events in a great degree, to the notes in
the musical scale which have been employed and their relationship to
each other.
And yet, while there is this manifest analogy between the music of
* A paper read before the Psychological Society last week.
song and the music of speech, there is also a difference. In what does
this difference then consist? I take it to be in this. In speech the
voice glides up or down in the musical scale, in what, by an allowable
figure, may be called an inclined plane; in song it makes steps, of which
the proportions to one another are ascertained.
Speech is for the most part heard only during the passage of the voice
from one sound to another; it is the result of intervals. In song
intervals are traversed silently, and the voice is heard only on sounds—
the terms or boundaries of intervals. The variations of the inflections
of the voice in speech may be compared to the effect produced by sliding
the finger up and down a vibrating string, such as that of a violin when
it is being played on; those in song to that produced by “stopping”
(as it is technically termed) such a string at certain points, and at no
others. In brief, speech consists almost exclusively, to use Professor
Hullah’s words, of concrete sounds (for we do not often make use of the
“ staccato ” in delivery), song almost exclusively of discrete sounds. But
as the differences between speech and song are great, so also are their
resemblances.
True speech, as I have just said, consists of concrete sounds, and
song of discrete sounds. But sounds are sounds, whether concrete or
discrete. Moreover, in speech and in song they are produced by the
same instrument, the human voice; and though in a somewhat different
manner, yet by the same mechanism, and governed by the same laws ;
similar varieties of pitch, intensity, and even timbre, resulting from its
action on both, only resulting in general more frequently and rapidly in
the music of speech, than in the music of song. Now it is all these
elements in the music of speech that I propose considering to-night,
when we employ them for the purpose of expressing the various feelings,
emotions, and passions of the soul.
It seems to me, I may remark in the first place, that in the expression
of these various passions and emotions of the soul through the medium
of the human voice, that there may be traced a general prevailing law
|| of antithesis—i.e., that if a particular emotion is conveyed by a series
| of vocal waves rising in the musical scale, and pitched in keys more
or less high, it will be found that the opposite emotion is expressed
| by a series of notes (or inflections, as they are technically termed)
descending in the musical scale and pitched in keys more or less
low. Let me endeavour to render this proposition clear by an illus-
| tration. I take the emotion of prayer or supplication as conveyed by
\ the following lines:—
“ 0 save me, Hubert, save me!
For Heaven’s sake, Hubert, let me not be bound!
Nay, hear me, Hubert, drive these men away!
And I will sit as quiet as a lamb. •
O spare mine eyes !
Though to no use but still to look on you!”
And here, I think, you must have all noticed that the voice was
| throughout, as I spoke the lines, rising in the musical scale, and that it
! was pitched in high keys. Now, what is the opposite to supplication ?
Surely, command; and, accordingly, I take tins passage embodying
j command, and read it:—
“ Spirits of earth and air,
Ye shall not thus elude me, by a power
Deeper than all yet urged, a tyrant’s spell,
Which had its birth-place in a star condemned,
The burning wreck of a demolished world,
A wandering hell in the eternal space;
By the strong curse which is upon my soul,
The thought that is within me and around me,
I do compel ye to my will. Appear!”
And, as I read this illustration, I think it must have been equally per¬
ceptible that my voice was descending in the musical scale, and that it
was pitched in low keys. Of course, this peculiar quality, or power, of
the voice rising or descending in the musical scale, has been inherent
in man ever since he was endowed with speech; and in every race,
from the most savage to the most civilised; and in every age, from the
rudest and most barbarous to the most polished and refined. Man has
used this quality of his voice naturally, and has developed its power
more and more, as his ideas multiplied, his civilisation advanced, and
reason, imagination, and the various emotions of his soul were called
into action. In the same manner has he used the modulation of the
voice into different keys; carried out what is technically termed its
poises; given emphasis to his words; and, in fact, employed, more
or less,' all the other elements of rhetoric, in all ages and in all
countries, guided at first by the instruction of nature only. • Thus
the native Indian orator, whom Lord ErsMne, in the brilliant
peroration to his speech in defence of Stockdale, mentions as
having heard in his youth, and whom he describes as “ a naked
savage, holding a bundle of sticks in his hand as the notes of
his unlettered eloquence,” appears to have had some of the highest
elements of what we should now term the art of elocution quite at his
command; and that a true system of developing and cultivating the
inflections, modulation, and other elements of the human voice, so as to
give the student eventually the highest powers of expression of which
the range of his voice is capable, must be, and can only be, based on
nature, is an assertion that I make most emphatically. And why?
Because inflection, modulation, and all the other elements of the voice
to which I have referred, are inherent in man, and their true, and
therefore their right, employment is based on, and governed by, the
laws of his nature.
Mr. Darwin, in his recent most interesting work on The Expression
of the Emotions in Man and Animals, says, at p. 36, “ The character of
the human voice, under the influence of various emotions, has been dis¬
cussed by Mr. Herbert Spencer, in his interesting essay on music. He
clearly shows that the voice alters mqch, under different conditions, in
loudness and quality, that is, in resonance and timbre, in pitch and
40
THE SPIRITUALIST?.
Jan. 20, 1877.
Jan. 26, 1877
THE SPIRITUALIST,
41
intervals. No one can listen to an eloquent orator or preacher without
being struck with the truth of Mr. Spenser’s remarks. It is curious
how early in life the modulation of voice becomes expressive. With one
of my own children, under the age of two years, I clearly perceived that
his 11 humph ” of assent was rendered by a slight modulation, strongly
emphatic; and that, by a peculiar whine, his negative expressed
obstinate determination. Mr. Spencer shows that emotional speech in all
the above respects is intimately related to vocal music, and consequently to
instrumental music, and he attempts to explain the characteristic qualities
of both on “ the general law that a feeling is a stimulus to muscular
action.” It may be admitted that the voice is affected through this law,
but the explanation appears to me too general and vague to throw much
light on the various differences, with the exception of that of loudness,
between ordinary speech and emotional speech, or singing. This
remark holds good whether we believe that the various qualities of the
voice originated in speaking under the excitement of strong feelings, and
that the qualities have subsequently been transferred to vocal music ;
or whether we believe, as I maintain, that the habit of uttering musical
sounds was developed as a means of courtship in the early progenitors
of man, and thus became associated with the strongest emotions of
which they were capable, namely, ardent love, rivalry, and triumph.
That animals utter musical notes is a fact familiar to every one, as
we may daily hear in the singing of birds. It is a remarkable fact that
an ape—one of the Gibbons—produces an exact octave of musical sounds,
ascending and descending the scale by half-tones, so that this ape, as
Professor Owen says, “ alone of brute mammals, may be said to sing.”
From this fact, and from the analogy of other animals, I have been led
to infer that the progenitors of man probably uttered musical tones
before they had acquired the power of speech, and that consequently
when the voice is used under any strong emotion, it tends to assume,
through the principle of association, a musical character  That
the pitch of the voice bears some relation to certain states of feeling is
tolerably clear. A person gently complaining of ill-treatment, or slightly
suffering, almost always speaks in a high pitched voice. . . . Laughter
may be either high or low in pitch, so that with men, as Haller long ago
remarked, the sound partakes of the character of the vowels 0 and A,
as pronounced in German, whilst with women and children it has more
of the character of E and I, and these latter vowels naturally have, as
Helmholz has remarked, a higher pitch than the former, yet both tones
of laughter equally express enjoyments or amusements.
In considering the mode in winch vocal utterances expres 1 he various
passions, emotions, and feelings of the soul, we are naturally led to
inquire into the cause of what is called “ expression” in music generally.
Upon this point, Mr. Litchfield, who has long attended to the subject
of music, has been so kind as to give me the following remarks:—
“The question ‘What is the essence of musical expression?’ (and of
course the question is equally applicable to expression by the human
voice or by an instrument), involves a number of obscure points, which,
so far as I am aware, are as yet unsolved enigmas. Up to a certain
point, however, any law which is found to hold good as to the expres¬
sion of the emotions, must apply to the more developed mode of expres¬
sion in song, which may be taken as the primary type of all music. A
great part of the emotional effects of a song depends upon the character
of the action by which the sounds are produced. . . . But this leaves
unexplained the more subtle and specific effect, which we call the
musical expression of a song, the delight given by the melody, or even
by the separate sounds which make up the melody. This is an effect
indefinable in language, one which, as far as I am aware, no attempt
has been made to analyse, and which the ingenious speculation of Mr.
Herbert Spencer leaves quite unexplained. For it is certain that the
melodic effect of a series of sounds does not depend in the least upon
their loudness or softness, or in their individual absolute pitch. The
purely musical effect of any sound depends upon its place in what is
technically called the * scale,’ the same sound producing absolutely dif¬
ferent effects upon the ear, according as it is heard in connection with
one or another series of sounds; It is on this relative association of the
sounds that all the essentially characteristic effects which are summed
up in the phrase ‘ musical expression’ depend. But why certain asso¬
ciations of sounds have such and such an effect is a problem which yet
remains to be solved.”
Now, all these remarks of Mr. Darwin, Mr. Herbert Spencer, and Mr.
Litchfield, in regard to the series or succession of sounds which produce
the music of song, apply, I think, undoubtedly, more or less to the
series or succession of sounds which produce the music of speech, or, in
other words, the inflection and modulation of the human voice.
Why words spoken in a certain key, descending, by a series of sounds,
in the musical scale, should convey to the mind the impression of stern,
determined will and command—as when a man, without even being seen,
in such a manner pronounces merely the four words “ Let me do this
and why the very same words, spoken in a different key, but with the
voice ascending in the musical scale, will convey the impression of
earnest entreaty or supplication, we cannot tell; at all events, in the
present state of knowledge to which we have arrived. But shall we
never be able to do so ? Are these indeed ultimate facts beyond which
we cannot go—mysteries that we can never penetrate ? The answer, I
fear, must be, that we must rest with the knowledge that the various
inflections and modulations of the human voice do produce certain
specific different impressions upon the mind and soul, and that the law
that such should be so is universal as regards all the races of mankind.
And now I think I have trespassed sufficiently long upon your attention
for this evening. In my next paper on this subject I propose entering
somewhat at length into an examination of the evidence on which I
venture to contend this general law of antithesis in the employment of
inflections and modulations of the human voice to express opposite
emotions of the soul is based, and, by appropriate illustrations from
passages expressive of such opposite emotions, to prove that this
hyp©thesis rests upon a true and firm foundation.
j THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
11 On Thursday night, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of
I i the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
); London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
j I CLAIRVOYANCE NOT THOUGHT-READING-.
) i ' Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, read a communication from
Ai Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., editor of the Art Journal, setting forth that in
|)i or about the year 1850 he dined with Mr. Lytton Bulwer, at Fulham;
I? 1 Lord Brougham was also one of the guests. The celebrated |clair-
i | voyant Alexis was expected, and when the hall bell rung Bulwer went to
|) | meet him, and took a handful of cards out of a tray and put them in his
i) I coat-tail pocket. He (Mr. Hall) saw him take the cards out of the
i( I tray. After dinner Bulwer put his hand in his pocket and said, “ Whose
II card am I holding now ?” Alexis replied, “ Mr. James Johnson’sh@
|)j (Mr. Hall) had forgotten the exact name, but the clairvoyant correctly
| (i read the name upon the card. Mr. Bulwer, until he produced it,
|j| did not know himself whose card it was. He did the same thing six or
|)| . seven times, always with the same accurate result. In every case Alexis
Kj gave the name correctly before Mr. Bulwer had taken the card from his
i|j pocket. In one case the same name was given twice, and there were
l| | two cards of that name in his pocket.
I)! THE PSYCHOLOGY OP THE HUMAN VOICE.
III Professor Plumptre then read a paper on the Psychology of the
I) I Human Voice, setting forth that emotional speaking was intimately
u! related to music.
|V| Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., said that although animals had no arti-
I;! culation, they could give great expression to their feelings, as in the
|( j case of the dog, for instance. Rooks had only one note, yet|could give
K i warnings of danger, and could almost talk to their young. Infants had
j) j the power of making their wants known by the tone of their voice. The
|( I most powerful language was that of passion.
isi Mr. Dunlop said that the association of ideas was one reason why
i) j particular sounds influenced the mind, as in the example where a
\h whistle was known to be a warning of danger. He had known such a
jy j sound, when successfully imitated, to send a tremor through a large
m body of men.
u j Mr. Spencer remarked that, besides the articulate voice, there was
i (1 an inarticulate voice, for when a man uttered a speech, he made it
j) i within his organism before he uttered it in words.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgewood, M.R.I., said that Professor Plumptre’s
\{ j statement about pathetic appeals being accompanied by a rising sound,
I) I was exemplified in the whining of a dog.
; ! Mr. Serjeant Cox remarked, that some discussion had taken place in
vj that society as to the possession of two brains by man, and he wished
]) i to call attention to the circumstance that an interesting article on that
jc I subject had been published in the last number of the Cornhill Magazine.
jv To come to the subject before the meeting—Was it not possible that
1 | men were at one time nearer the position of animals than now, and
1(1 could only express their emotions by sounds, instead of by articulate
| | speech? Wagner held that it was possible by music to convey different
ideas, and even pictures, to the mind. For instance, he said he could
j(j produce a musical picture of a wood, and he had tried to do so. How
is! far he had succeeded in this, he (Mr. Serjeant Cox) could not say, but he
|) j had tried to find out what pictures Wagner had intended to convey without
I (i looking at the words; he could then discover when anger, love, and other
] s! passions were depicted, but he could not discover what were the ideas
|): Wagner tried to convey to the mind. Could animals communicate ideas ?
i (j It was a very important question, for it raised the problem whether
| (| ideas could be communicated from one mind to another without articulate
! j j speech. He thought that one animal could convey ideas to another,
i (j He knew a dog who would sometimes take out another dog, and they
is | would run on opposite sides of a hedge without either one of them tres-
1)1 passing where they had no business. One day this dog took out a
|(] strange dog, and kept that one in order just as if he had been accus-
| s j tomed to the duty; the new dog did not run off the land of the master of
i) j the other dog, and went through his work properly. Once he (Mr. Ser-
|(1 jeant Cox) had a pony which was blind, and to go from one field into
| s | another it had to pass through a narrow gateway in a very long fence;
1) I once when it desired to find this gateway a cow touched it, after which
|n the pony ran along quite freely, and the cow led it through the gate.
1 s i In this instance he thought that there was a communication of an idea,
]) I but there was certainly nothing of the nature of emotion. Was thought-
I) | reading a relic of the time when men had no articulate speech ? and had
| i j the power of thought-reading died away from non-usage ?
|)j Mr. Rowlands remarked that man’s soul was so fully expressed in
m his voice that a person could sometimes recognise the voice of a Mend
i (| whom he had not met for twenty years.
l) l ONE OP DR. CARPENTER’S INACCURACIES.
i) j Mr. Wedgwood said that Mr. Hall’s case, which their secretary had
jj l just read, did justice to a man who had been treated most unjustly by
m Dr. Carpenter in his lecture at the London Institution, for he told a
|)1 public audience that Alexis was an impostor..
in Mdlle. Ronniger remarked that every nation in its speech had an in-
iji flection of its own; she had resided some time in Denmark, where the
|)| people use a falling inflection, so that every speaker seems as if going
u j to cry. In Germany the Saxon has a singing voice.
K j Mr. Gordon thought that Mr. Serjeant Cox ought to give some
m authority for his assertion that Herr Wagner had attempted to show
K | pictures by music. At the present time if a man wished to pourtray the
j j most refined emotions, he did it by music; he should, therefore, have
|(| thought that the power of thought-reading was an advance upon the
i( i present state of man rather than a retrogression,
jvj Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he could vouch for the reality of the
| (i powers of Alexis. Once a party of physicians at Exeter tested Alexis.
It! One of them wrote to a friend at Tiverton asking him to write a-
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 26, 1877.
word and enclose it in three or four envelopes, so that none of those
present should know what was in it; if the word were then read, the
thought-reading theory would be inapplicable to that case. Nobody in
the room knew the word inside the note, yet it was read in five
minutes by Alexis, who merely took the letter and pressed it against his
stomach. On another occasion three Exeter doctors took special pains
to close up the eyes of Alexis by means of strips of sticking-plaister,
wool, and three pocket-handkerchiefs, after which they certified that
not a ray of light could reach his eyes. He then played at cards with
them for a quarter of an hour. To call such a man an impostor was
absurd.
The proceedings then closed.
POPULAR ERRORS ABOUT DR. SLADE. I
The following are some of the points which are exciting the prejudice [ j
of the uninformed against Dr. Slade:— j
1. That a Fellow of the Royal Society seised the slate directly it was | j
in positionf and found writing upon it before any writing should have j i
been there. 11
Occasionally writing comes upon the slates when Dr. Slade only
pushes them half under the table and immediately withdraws them, jj
the motion being about as rapid as the to-and-fro motion of a pendulum. | j
Therefore the supposed crucial experiment was nothing but the scientific I j
blunder of an uninformed intruder into a special subject. j |
2. Why does he put them under the table at all ? !
Because the writing comes with greatest facility where there is i!
partial darkness—that is to say, between the surface of the slate and ;
the surface of the table. I j
3. Tie does the writing by means of liquids and sympathetic inks. ! j
He does not. All the messages—of which many are in the posses- j
sion of the Court and of private individuals—are in the dry dusty |
writing of slate pencil. s
4. The messages come in handwriting resembling Dr. Slade’s. |
Some of them do. Mr. Simmons voluntarily informed us of the fact, j
and we published it in this journal, in the report of the first seance j
which Dr. Slade gave in London, so Spiritualists were fully informed of |
the circumstance. Many of the “ materialised hands ” which have | j
appeared under severe scientific test conditions, imposed by Messrs. i|j
Varley, Crookes, Luxmoore, Harrison, and others, have been, according jlj
to oft-published descriptions, duplicates of the hands of the mediums, j jj
with the same kind of muscular motions, consequently the same hand- j |i
writing, and this has for years been a fully recognised feature of such j jj
manifestations. But handwriting frequently also comes through me- jjj
diums, which in no way resembles their own. - jjj
5. That Dr. Slade used a trick table. jjj
The evidence of those who made it proved that this was not the case, ijj
for they made it how they pleased, with the exception that it was ordered j j i
to be constructed of ash instead of deal, to resist rough usage; and had jjj
one bracket under each flap instead of two—thus increasing simplicity, j j
and presenting fewer movable parts to be objected to by suspicious jjj
observers. Dr. Slade voluntarily produced the table in court as evidence j J j
in his favour. Moreover, he obtains the phenomena in strange houses, | j
with other slates, tables, and pencils than his own, as in the seances | i
given to Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, the Princess Louise, and the jjj
Research Committee of the National Association of Spiritualists. j j
6. That he has no right to the title of “ doctor.” j j
Mr. Simmons says that Dr. Slade took out a State License as a clair- j j
voyant physician, which gave him the recognised right in America to j i
use the title of “ Dr.” jjj
7. That Dr. Slade is a habitual impostor. jjj
The sworn evidence for the defence, pronounced by Mr. Flowers to be jjj
“ overwhelming,” but irrelevant to the special issue, was absolutely j j
inexplicable on any imposture theory, and similar evidence to any jji
extent is forthcoming if• necessary, such unanswerable phenomena jjj
having been witnessed in Dr. Slade’s presence for the last twelve years, 1 j
without those most prejudiced against them having attempted to molest j j
him till now. jjj
8. That Dr. Slade has been seen doing the writing. j j j
Nobody has ever seen him write a word. Those one or two superficial j j j
inquirers who, perhaps, have had a weak inconclusive sitting, found jjj
their opinion that he does the writing upon inference and conjecture.
t \ j
A SPIRIT HAND. . |
Last Sunday afternoon Mr. William Eglinton was present at the j j
house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, ijj
London. Some members of the company having remarked that a table I ji
near which the medium was sitting was trembling, and that faint thuds ijj
were coming from it, the blinds of the room were drawn down, and in the j j j
subdued light the raps increased in power. The visitors present then j jj
seated themselves round the large circular table, and several manifesta- j j j
tions took place. Mrs. Wiseman sat on one side of Mr. Eglinton and jji
Mrs. Gregory on the other; Mrs. Wiseman, of Orme-square, Bayswater, jji
held both Mr. Eglinton’s hands in the sight of all the other observers, jji
and Mrs. Gregory held the arm nearest to her at the elbow. A hand- j j i
kerchief was then placed on the top of Mr. Eglinton’s head. Soon a jji
living materialised hand was seen moving about the top of the shoulder jjj
of the medium next to Mrs. Wiseman; it snatched the handkerchief jjj
downwards from his head, and presently brought it up on the other side, jjj
and laid the handkerchief over the top of that hand of Mrs. Gregory i j i
which was holding Mr. Eglinton’s elbow. Then the hand went down jjj
and was seen no more. Everybody in the room was seated at the ijj
table, and in the apartment there was no human being in the flesh jji
outside the circle or behind Mr. Eglinton. Much direct spirit writing jjj
on slates was obtained at this seance. in
DR. SLADE’S SEANCFS.
As some confusion prevails in the public mind as to the nature and
shape of the table once used by Dr. Slade, which he voluntarily pro¬
duced at Bow-street Police-court as evidence that there was no trickery
about it, we will attempt to make the points at issue clear by means of
explanatory diagrams.
Any table will do for him, since he frequently gives seances away
from his rooms, with no tables or slates of his own, but instead thereof
such as can be found in the particular house he visits. But he had one
made for himself, of remarkable simplicity, to disarm suspicious
observers; it was also made of tough wood—ash, to resist rough usage;
for, as Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr. Fitz-Gerald and others have testified, it
sometimes goes up in the air, and turns bottom upwards on the heads
of observers. An old table belonging to Mrs. Burke, which he used for
a time, soon had one of its leaves split into pieces.
3 J> F
Fig. 2 represents the table Dr. Slade ordered to be brought to Bow-
street ; it is a kind of ordinary kitchen table, but made of ash. The
frame above A was declared by the man who made it to be somewhat
larger than the frames commonly used for such tables; he had made it
larger, without any order to that effect, to give additional strength.
There is, as usual with such tables, no frame round the flaps.
There being no veneering and no framework in each flap—nothing
but an honest piece of solid ash—it is easy to see that when Dr. Slade
holds a slate, B (Fig. 3), against the solid wooden flap, A, and writing
comes, in dry, dusty slate pencil, all over the upper side of the slate, in
the shadow under the flap, how very disturbing such an occurrence
must be to the mental equilibrium of hardened materialists.
B, D, E, Fig. 1, show the under-side of the table, but we have put
two ordinary brackets at R, R, under, the flap B, B, whereas Dr. Slade’s
table had but a single stick bracket under each flap, such as is shown
at N, beneath the flap E, E. The slate “ in position ” is shown at H,
where the stick bracket is out of its way, one of the double brackets, R,
there, would have been a nuisance, interfering with the placing of the
slate. D, D, is the part of the table directly connected with the frame,
and A, A, A, A, are the tops of the four legs of the table.
Dr. Slade never sits at the flap side of the table at X. He always
sits sideways, against the frame at T, D, turning his feet in the direction
of the lower E, and putting the slate under the table at that corner, su
that the observer, who always sits at the same corner in broad daylight,
has—or can have if he asks for it—Dr. Slade’s hands and feet, and the
edge of the slate, always in full view.
Sometimes Dr. Slade, with his thumb on the upper side of the slate
at W, pushes the slate, W, K, half under the table, as represented at K,
then withdraws it, the whole motion being about as quick as the swing
of a pendulum, yet during the moment the part of the slate K is in
shadow, a sentence is scribbled across it in the dry, dusty writing of
slate pencil.
THE REPUBLICATION OF GREGORY’S “ANIMAL
MAGNETISM.”
Foe many years past the public have desired the republication of the
work upon Animal Magnetism, written by the late Mr. William
Gregory, Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh University. The book,
which was dedicated by its ■■'author by permission to the Duke of Argyll,
has long been out of print, and it abounds with interesting facts and ex¬
periments relating to mesmerism and other branches of psychology.
Mrs. Gregory having presented us with the copyright of the work,
we intend to republish it in an abridged form, omitting principally Pro¬
fessor Gregory’s arguments with scientific disbelievers as to the reality
of the facts, because everybody is fast becoming convinced that the
opinions on these subiects of scientific men are worthless, that it is use¬
less to argue with them, that they will not treat these subjects fairly,
and that as regards psychology they are abusing such authority as
their names temporarily possess over the public mind. These omissions,
therefore, will considerably improve the book.
Mr. J. M. Peebles intends to leave San Frauciso about Feb. 1st, on
his second tour round the world, to observe the progress of Spiritualism
in different countries.
Re Lawrence.—A writ of error in this case has been issued, so tho
question will be tried whether or no the Assistant Judge’s decision is
not bad law. Mr. Lawrence will perhaps be released on bail.
Jan. 26, 1877. THE SPIKITTTALIST. 43
THE CHIEF VICE OF THE AGE*
A SERMON BT THE KEY. H. R. HAWEIS, M.A.
This is a restless money-getting age. How many are
sacrificing nearly all that makes life happy, striving for that
which they think will give them joy, and when they get it
every capacity for enjoyment has gone. Men in the great
Roman Empire of St. Paul’s time were in the same state,
outwitting each other, and one reason why the Bible has
lasted so long is that it has gone on age after age finding
men out, convincing them of judgment, of unrighteousness, and
of sin. “ The love of money,” said St. Paul, “ is the root of
all evil,” and to get it men have pierced themselves through
and through with many troubles.
Are the words not true now ? They are as true as when
they were first written; there is nothing overdrawn. The
Apostle applies the words to “ them that mill be rich,” for
he knew that they would get rich honestly if they could,
but if not, they would get rich at any price. See what a
man sacrifices who means to get rich. “Why don’t you
retire?” “ I can’t.” Oh, yes, you can; a man can always
retire from a morally or spiritually untenable condition. In
the busy world, if your friend stands between you and a good
bargain, you will throw over your friend, and if a man is
capable of throwing over one friend for money, he is ready
to throw over another.. He is so engrossed with money¬
getting that when he returns home he hardly looks at his
wife, he cannot notice his children, he has no time to spare;
he means to be rich, he has no time for these things, so love
goes to the wall. He has no time for conscience, so nobility
is gone, honour is gone, capacity for enjoyment is
gone; there is no music left in that man—no string upon
which God can play. You have a heart of many strings
which vibrate sweetly to the wind, but you say “ I will sell
one string for gold,” then another, then another. After¬
wards the music is piled up, and the Minstrel is ready to
play, but no capacity for music is left in the man. Ho
capacity? You can see it in men’s faces furrowed with care,
clouded with anxiety. Ask their friends what they are do¬
ing in life, and they will say “ Oh, they are getting rich.” Do
you wish to see how all this ends ? There is no more pitiable
spectacle for youth to look at, than an old man who has
been getting rich all his life and sacrificing everything that
gives nobility of character or makes life happy; he is can¬
tankerous, suspicious, mean, hungering and thirsting for more
wealth, never satisfied, always clutching his money-bags, and
at last he dies like a viper which stings itself to death—be¬
cause he would be rich.
Another says, “ I will get rich and make everybody
happy.” Presently he gets among young men who
are not getting rich at all for that purpose, and among them
he forgets his original purposes and promises ; he starts fair,
but he falls into temptation. You see avarice all over the
country—everybody wishing to increase his income. People
get hold of “ splendid investments ” which involve hypocrisy
and swindling; then they fall into the habits induced by
increased income when they might have done without them ;
but soon they find their capital gone, for the returns they
had been receiving were too large for the foundation to be
safe. Yes, their capital is gone like the Turkish bonds.
We know now how people get their large incomes from
Turkish bonds—it was because wretched populations were
pillaged, and women and children were murdered and
flogged to death—that is where the money came from.
Perhaps the advisers of those who held the bonds did not
know it; perhaps the nation did not know it; but it was
all founded on error and on sin. Yes, that is where the
money came from, and oh the lying that goes on! Look
into the trades-people’s shops; look at their bills. I am
not here to denounce any one class, or to define the very
difficult boundary line where the legitimate customs of trade
end and swindling begins. But it is a fact that, con¬
stantly, private people find out most unblushing lies in
these matters ; articles are marked at false prices; bad
things are forced upon you, and lying and cheating abound.
A great cheat makes much money at the beginning; but
* A full shorthand report of a sermon delivered by the Rer. H. R. Ha/weis
last Sunday morning at St. James’s Hall, Regent-street, London.
| I from ignorance of the causes of happiness in life and
jii ignorance of the true object and aim of man’s existence
m here, he saps the foundations of all his permanent wealth
|(| by destroying his own character. A man with a smooth
W face comes into your office, and you say : § Oh, the grip of
! ! the honest man ! What sympathy bubbles up even in his
jlj business transactions ! ” He was exposed last week in a
|)1 fraudulent action; now he may smile and smile again, but
||| he is known ; he has fallen; his character is gone; he is
||| “ blown upon ”—ruined.
||| How about bubble companies? You are in a measure
| | responsible for their existence, for if the public were not
jj avaricious, these companies would not be there to swindle.
! I wonder how the man who gets them up is able to sleep at
| j night, when he knows that he is offering for £40,000 that
j|j which perhaps is worth only £10,000, and knows also that
jjj he is getting the balance without making any return for it
•ijl out of the fatherless and the widow. I cannot imagine
[ ) how he can sleep in his bed. Does he never hear their cries
I).| of sorrow? And how about the man who sends rotten ships
!|i to sea, and the man who owns ill-ventilated and bad houses ?
They have fallen into temptation, they have fallen into a
ij! snare. These things reach far into respectable society,
jjj You are on a Sanitary Board, or on a Commercial Board,
j j and when anything goes wrong, somehow nobody is to
j j blame when everybody is to blame. Remember that in these
j j things you are responsible. “ You know nothing about it?”
jjj But your name is implicated, and if so you are really and
j j truly thoroughly responsible, because respectable names
j j attached to bad speculations mislead the public, so if your
i j name is connected with them your honour is fully implicated,
j j You have no business to be on a board if you do not know
j j what the board is doing. An upright man will not sell his
Ijl name to those who have no character to lose, and who use
jjj his good name to trade on the honest public,
j j I will tell you a story of a friend of mine, a man eminent
Ijl in scientific circles. A mine of enormous wealth had been
j j discovered where, if you only walked over the land, you
j j were able to pick up diamonds wholesale, and if you scratched
j j the surface with a spade you came upon unlimited gold,
j j Only this land was a long way off, and nobody knew much
j j about it. They gave my friend a thousand pounds, and
I j said : “ Go out and explore it, and we will pay you well for
j j it.” So out goes my friend to Australia, where he met two
j j gentlemen who took him in tow, and led him far Away into
I j uncivilised regions—into the Great Lone Land. At last
i j they got him to a lonely place in the wilds, and he gradually
j j learned that the characters of these men would not bear
|j j whitewashing. They said to him : “ You need not look at
jjj the land; sit down and write a few words, and say that you
j j believe the scheme is profitable. You can have another
j j thousand pounds or so, and be made a director, and every-
j j thing will be made pleasant.” My friend saw that he was
j j in the company of men who would think nothing of murder-
j j ing him, and throwing him into the nearest ditch, after
j j which they might have no hesitation in forging his name,
j j so he said that he must take time to consider, and that he
j j must examine the land. He went over it, and found it to
j i be worthless. They said: “Won’t you write now?” But
||j he replied that he wished to see more. That night he wrote
jjj a few lines home announcing that‘the land was worthless,
j j and he paid fifteen pounds for a man to carry the missive to
j j the next station, together with another letter asking the next
j j party which came from the station to bring an escort witli
Ijl them; The escort arrived; he then lifted his hat to the
i| j two agents, and, snapping his fingers at them, said, “ Gentle-
Ijj men, your land is worth that.” This is the kind of fibre
Ijj that we want in commercial life. He might have signed the
jjj paper, many people might have been ruined, and even then
jjj he might have got out of it; he could have said that he had
jjj been imposed upon, or that due facilities were not given
jjj him for seeing everything fairly; but no, his name was
j j implicated, and, as an Englishman, he would not lend the
j j weight of his powerful name to a great swindle. “They
jjj that will be rich fall into temptation.”
j j And what temptations beset young men. Your mind gets
jjj down; the last bet has made you anxious ; you go to the bar
j j and “ have a good time of it, and feel jbetter;” and next
’■ 1 day, and next day, and next day you feel the same, and you
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 26, 1871
go down to the bar, and feel better; at last nothing can be j
done without going down to the bar and feeling better. |
Then your employer tells your father that his son cannot |
now get through his work without stimulants, and that he j
is always betting. Yes, sometimes you make twenty pounds j
and sometimes you lose forty pounds, but each time you go |
down to the bar and feel better. Gh, if you knew how consti- j
tutions have been ruined in this way, because a man will be |
rich, and cannot resist the anxiety of mind without the j
stimulation. These things drown men in perdition and |
destruction. Drink never goes alone; it always puts a j
man in good spirits with everything. Oh, he is so good j
humoured that he goes treating and helping every- j
body, and lending money to everybody until he has j
none left for himself. Licentiousness follows ; for a |
man who loosens his moral fibre in one line, loosens j
it in others. He is marked out for ruin just as a tree is j
marked for the axe. At the age of about thirty-five he gets j
puffy in the face, red in the nose, and looks as if he were !
forty; then one side breaks down, then the other side, and 1
perhaps his head breaks down, and nobody will trust him |
in business, because he has. fallen into temptation. Paul I
saw this vision passing before him as I see it this moment, j
I see a young man defying the laws of health ; I see a great j
river of misery rolling on before him to the great ocean of |
eternity. I hear the words of Paul, solemn and sad, and |
reasonable, and he utters words which I hope will sink ij
deeply into the hearts of many here, and which I hope will j
catch you before it is too late. You who have come here to j
while away an idle half-hour, you who have come here from j
your clubs because on this Sunday morning you have nothing j
else to do, I tell you that Paul knew the world, and young men |
and young women when he said—“ For the love of money is j
the root of all evil; which while some coveted after, they !
have erred froftfthe faith, and pierced themselves through j
with many sorrows.” He does not say that evil is certain |
to rise out of money or the desire to obtain wealth, but there j
is no kind of evil which has not at some time or other been j j
traced to money. Evil may rise out of anything, but there |
is hardly any form of lust, lying, deceit, or selfishness which I
has not its root in this love of material wealth.
How fatal it is to family affection! How anxious people j (
are to hear that will read, and when it is read it acts like a j)
bombshell, for many there will never be friends again. The j j
love of money often saps family affection. Oh it is sad to j(
see children wishing for the death of parents; it is sad to j
know that you are wishing to see your mother ready for the !
grave, and sad to hear the son saying of the father with re- I j
gret—<l Oh, the old man is tough! He got through last j
winter, and he is as hale and hearty as everand you are j >
watching like a bird of prey for the time when you will come j(
into possession of his money. A few day ago I saw a sorrow- j j
ful picture of a dying camel in the desert, looking up to the |
cloudless heavens with its sad and weary eyes, whilst the |
vultures were sailing round and round overhead waiting for |
the time when they could pounce down upon him. ! |
Suppose that camel to be your own father and you | j
watching to pounce down upon him. Perhaps this j
condition of things is very much the fault of parents, who j
not knowing the causes of human happiness and misery, train j
up their children to love wealth, and watch their daughters j ?
growing withered because they do not meet with a partner ! i
equal to the ambition or the avarice of the parents. Many |<
good honest marriages, in which the affections would not |?
have been sacrificed, might have been made had it not been for j)
the avarice of the father and mother. Why do not the parents I (
take a smaller house ? Why are they not less ambitious, and j>
why do they not let their sons and daughters settle for them- is
selves ? I am not speaking of any particular case, but deal- i<
ing with general principles. Troubles thus heaped upon \\
children by parents at last sap their affection, until finally
the children wish that their parents were dead, and the
parents think their children a nuisance.
Then there is the taste for horse-racing. It is not neces¬
sarily cruel to drive horses fast, or to take an interest in
horses ; they were made on purpose to go fast, which the ox
was not; there would be great cruelty in driving an ox in
the same way. Cruel things are done on the turf for the
love of money. Wives’ fortunes are spent and men ruined;
their children’s prospects and their own honour are wrecked at
the same time. There is a gentleman well known in high
circles for his habit of betting upon horses. His wife had
diamonds at the bankers, and when he got into difficulties
he took her jewels and had them replaced with paste. He
did not stop there; he entered into wilder speculations.
At last, one day, in despair he said to his wife: u I am
ruined! We are both ruined! I am a lost man! We
cannot meet our debts! We cannot pay our bills or our
debts of honour! ” She replied: “ Well, it might have
been worse. My jewels are at the bank. There is nothing
I would not give to see you happy. Come, let me be your
saviour, and save you now ? Take the jewels ; I only wore
them to please you ! ” And the wretched man stood there
and listened to this appeal! Oh, my friends, what were
the feelings of that man? He pushed her from him, and
said in a hoarse kind of groan: “ They, are gone! They
are all gone! Paste! Paste! Paste! ” I would not have
stood in that man’s shoes for all the gold in Lombard-
street.
You must not suppose that it is very miserable to be
poor. Where people acknowledge their position and per¬
form their proper responsibilities in life, they are surrounded
by friends who love them for themselves. It is a new world
to descend from the mountain heights of wealth into the
poverty where people are surrounded by true friends. But
there is another side to the picture. What are we to do
with the man who pierces himself through with many
shafts—with more shafts than ever pierced St. Sebastian—
because he will “ keep up appearances,” and dares not re¬
trench ? Misery ! He keeps up an outside appearance of
wealth, but is pinched and miserable. Oh friends, of such
stuff is madness made, and from this position spring many
suicides. I can see 'a scene where a man has sat down and
thought, and thought, and thought about the state of his wife and
family when they shall discover that they have been brought
to ruin, and one afternoon that man goes out, alone, by the
sea-side. I watch him as he walks into the water, and a
cold mist seems to come up and hide him from me, but I
hear a splash! There in no second splash; there is no
struggling, and nobody has seen the act. He is a man who
has fallen into temptation. Next day the papers say that
he walked too near the precipice; that his foot slipped, and
unfortunately he fell into the water, and the jury return a
verdict of “ accidental death.”
I hear sometimes of people going mad about religion. I
wish to God people would go mad about it, for what I see is
that they go to sleep about it. I should like religion to
reach that wretched man who is making money in improper
ways; and if it is necessary to pass him through a little mad¬
ness before freforming him, I should like to do it. Soften¬
ing of the brain is one fruit of two much attention to the
getting of money. A man’s head becomes less and less steady,
and at last on the Stock Exchange they say, “ What has be¬
come of Smith ? What has become of Jones ?” and the
reply is, “ Oh, he’s seedy—gone away for his health.” Yes,
and he will never come back again. Perhaps he may be met
in the street buttoning up his shabby coat, and holding it
not to let you see that one of the buttons is off. What is
the matter ? “ He is gone—broke—done for.” He has fallen
into temptation. Thus do people drown themselves in per¬
dition and destruction. When I see a conceited young
fellow thinking that his father did not know how to make
money, and that he does, when he comes down with a run I
feel no regret.
The Psalmist tells that when he saw the wicked rich and
flourishing, the problem was too hard for him until he went
into the House of the Lord; then he saw the end of that
man, and learned how every tree which the Father has not
planted Himself, must sooner or later tall and be
rooted out. In the House of the Lord I learn spiritual
principles, I learn the laws of the Divine Government of
the world, and see how those people have been placed
in slippery places, and how Thou, 0 Lord, casteth
them down. Money is a great power, I have none. I wish
I had more; and if I had, I think I should use it better
than other people; but perhaps I should not. When I see
people I wish to help, I do not like coming to you
asking for money, although I do so sometimes, for I know
Jan. 26, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
many cases in which help to the extent of five or ten pounds
would do great good, and I do beg of you pretty considerably.
You have your wealth in trust, and how shall they that trust
in riches enter the kingdom of heaven ? It is a trust placed
in your hands by the Heavenly Taskmaster, to be used.
How have I acquired my wealth ? ask yourself. By deceit ?
by a swindling contract ? How is it that I have so much
money in my bank? You can hardly make money fast
without making it in a wrong way; I do not say that it is
impossible to do so, but it is improbable; for, if you give
the public an honest equivalent for their payments, wealth
comes in slowly. Do you say, “ I am a selfish man ? I
have lived mostly for myself, but sometimes I have thrown a
handful of money away.” If so, you had better have kept
it in your pocket. To do good, its dissemination should be
guided by intelligence and by love. I have seen many a
poor man demoralised by sudden wealth ; then it is good-bye
poor relations ; good-bye honest friends ; good-bye purity of
life; good-bye conscience, and good-bye religion. A man’s
position in life has a moral influence upon his actions. i{ Lay
not up for yourselves treasures where moth and rust doth cor¬
rupt, and where thieves break through and steal.” Lay up
treasures for yourselves in heaven ; not the distant heaven of
which many speak, but the heaven here—the kingdom of
heaven within yourselves; the heaven of a good disposition ;
of generous aspirations; the heaven of being in possession of
a clean heart and clean hands ; the heaven of the capacity for
enjoyment, which shall turn all things by divine alchemy
into pure and living gold, into treasures of character, trea¬
sures of manhood, treasures of nobility, treasures of sensi¬
bility to spiritual things; for “ where your treasure is, there
will your heart be also.”
THE FRIGHT OF ROWLEY HILL*
(From the “ Boston Transcript.”')
I;
About a century since—accounts are vague—■
* In seventeen eighty-one or eighty-two,
(It matters little, since the account is true,)
A wild commotion was created here,
By the first symptoms of the witchcraft plaguO.
One Hannah Hazen, whom report spOaks well,
Was weaving as the dusk of evening fell,
When strange, mysterious noises caught the ear,
And fear seized all, and rumour filled the air.
In flocked the neighbours, all agape; to see
The fair, sweet worker of iniquity j
But stood aghast, with superstitious stare,
When thump, thump, thump, came from the walls about,
As if some prisoned fiend would beat his dark way out.
n.
Ohair, table, all things fled her evil look;
E’en the old meal-chest edged and edged away,
Though weighted with the gossips of the day ;f
Like chattering teeth the latches rattled wild,
And where she trod the whole house shuddering shook.
The clergy were called in to exorcise
So foul a spirit in so fair a guise;
But no rebuke availed, severe or mild,
And consternation sat on every face!
When from abroad the goodman now returned,
With wrath indignant from his house he spurned
All who had seen or sought its dark disgrace—
Not doubting what occurred, but yet too wise
To give his influence to the ungodly sacrifice.
in.
This prompt, decisive, vigorous act of one
Who thought delusion better silent die
Than suffer the surviving infamy
That gives old Salem her unenvied fame
For deeds of violence in wild frenzy done,
Was done through love, not blind fanatic zeal,
He felt for truth and love as all should feel,
And saved the old town the ever-during shame
Of punishing, for no conscious fault or crime,
One he would shield, but whom the righteous few
Who wagged their heads, and knew just what to do,
Would, in the darkness of that troubled time,
Have dragged to martyrdom had he joined the cry
Of the unreasoning crowd that Truth would crucify.
* Now known as Spoffard’s Hill, In Georgetown, which was formerly a part of Rowley,
t It is said the heavy oaken chest hitched inch by inch across the room, with two or three
men upon it; that the latches of the doors flew up and down violently when she approached
them, and things generally seemed bewitched by her. The story is here given as the
writer heard it in childhood from the old people of the place. The head of the house Was
away at the time, but laid about him in good round terms when he returned, and was ever
afterwards averse to having the matter brought up. The house was burned soon after, but
to this day the spot where it stood is pointed out as one of historical interest;
IV.
When, Hagar-like, the maiden fled in grief,
The chairs resumed their places, prim and stiff,
The tables ceased their rdle—all looked as if
No masquerading e’er had set them out
To revel in their master’s absence brief.
So quiet reigned once more, and all went well
Till to the flames the house a victim fell,
As ’twere the scene of this unseemly rout
Should from the mind of man be swept away.
But mothers whispered to their babes the tale,
Tradition caught it up, till like a sail,
Lost in the purple deeps of dying day,
This little glimmer from the long ago
Flashes upon the verge, ere all is sunk below.
Henry Henderson.
A SURPRISE.
BY MRS. EDNA HALL, OP BOSTON, U.S.
This poem was frequently recited in private, in some of the first circles of
London society, by Mr. Massett, of Boston, otherwise “ Jeemes Pipes, of
Pipesville.” It was quoted some time ago in The Spiritualist, but as the name
of the writer was then unknown to us, and as the poem has just been sent us
from America with a request that it be published, and as in consequence of
the unceasing steady rise in circulation of this journal it can now be brought
before a much larger body of readers, we reprint it:—
“ She is dead! ” they said to him; “ Come away;
Kiss her and leave her—thy love is clay ! ”
They smoothed her tresses of dark brown hair ;
On her forehead of stone they laid it fair;
Over the eyes which gazed too much,
They drew the lids with a gentle touch;
With a tender touch they closed up well
The sweet, thin lips that had secrets to tell:
About her brown and beautiful face
They tied her veil and her marriage lace ;
And drew on her feet the white silk shoes—
Which were the whitest—no eye could choose!
And over her bosom they crossed her hands—
“ Come away,” they said, “ God understands! ”
And there was silence, and nothing there
But silence, and scents of eglantere,
And jasmine, and roses, and rosemary,
And they said : “ As a lady should lie, lies she.”
And they held their breath as they left the room
With a shudder, to glance at its stillness and gloom.
But he who loved her too well to dread
The sweet, the stately and beautiful dead,
He lit his lamp and took his key
And turned it. Alone—he and she.
He and she; yet she would not speak,
Though he kissed, in the old place, the quiet cheek.
He and she; but she would not smile,
Though he called her the name she loved erewhile.
He and she ; still she did not move
To any passionate whisper of love.
Then he said; “ Cold lips and breast without breath,
Is there no voice ? no language of death ?
“ Dumb to the ear and still to the sense,
But to heart and soul distinct, intense ?
“ See, now; I will listen with soul, not ear;
What was the secret of dying, dear ?
“ Was it the infinite wonder of all
That you ever could let life’s flower fall ?
“ Or was it the greater marvel to feel
The perfect calm o’er the agony steal ?
“ Was the miracle greater to find how deep
Beyond all dreams sank downward that sleep ?
“ Did life roll back its record, dear ?
And show, as they say it does, past things clear ?
“ And was it the innermost heart of the bliss
To find out so, what a wisdom love is ?
110, perfect dead 1 0, dead most dear!
I hold the breath of my soul to hear !
“ I listen and listen and you do not tell,
As high as to Heaven, as deep as to hell.
“ There must be pleasure in dying, sweet,
To make you so placid from head to feet.
“ I would tell you, darling, if I were dead,
And ’twere your hot tears on my brow shed.
“ I would say, though the angel of death had laid
His sword on my lips to keep it unsaid.
“ You should not ask vainly, with streaming eyes,
Which of all death’s was the chiefest surprise;
“ The very strangest and suddenest thing
Of all surprises dying must bring.”
Ah, foolish world! 0, most kind dead!
Though he told me, who will believe it was said ?
Who will believe that he heard her say,
With the sweet, soft voice, in the dear old way—
“ The utmost wonder is this; I hear
And see you, and love you, and kiss you, dear.
“ And am your angel, who was your bride,
And know that though dead I have never died ”?
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
^an. 26, 1877.
(Kflmspnxiena.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned copies
should be kept by the writers.]
THE SPIRITUALISM OP DR. ROBERT CHAMBERS.
Sir,—Last week’s number of The Spiritualist contains an extract from
the Spiritual Magazine which much surprised me, Mr. Howitt therein
writing as though a certain change had come over Dr. Robert Chambers’s
views towards the close of his life, with regard to Spiritualism, in
which he was so firm a believer, the result of this change, Mr. Howitt
tells us, having been the destruction by Dr. Chambers of an unpublished
work in which he had still farther carried out his views in the track of
Vestiges of Creation. Now I can hardly think that the immolated MSS.
could have been purely of the same character as the Vestiges, for to my
certain knowledge Dr. Chambers adhered to the principles of that work
to the end of his days, and during his last illness derived deep satisfaction
from a volume by Mr. Darwin, which had just then appeared. I ha.ve
it from one of his daughters, that after she had one day read out to him
a portion of that volume, he exclaimed, “ Oh, this has been a great re¬
freshment.” To these words having been uttered by Dr. Chambers
Mr. Darwin can testify, as they were reported to him.
Jane H. Douglas,
81, South Audley-street, Jan. 21.
Sir,—As an interest seems to be attached to the fact of the late Dr.
Chambers’s belief in Spiritualism, I may as well say that he and I
commenced the investigation together at the house of our mutual friend,
the late Dr. Samuel Brown, then residing in Bayswater. We three
met frequently with a Mrs. Haydon, who, I think, was a medium from
America. Dr. Chambers, as well as Dr. Brown and myself, did cer¬
tainly then believe in the genuineness of the facts of the noises called
raps, in the movements of the table, and in an intelligence in clairvoy¬
ance or thought-reading, as the case might be—that is, in circumstances
spelt out by the sounds which were only known to Dr. Chambers him¬
self. Afterwards Dr. Chambers went fully into the investigation with a
member of his own family; but there were private objections to making
this public in addition to those connected with business matters, his
brother, and the journal. These additional reasons I refrain from par¬
ticularising.
As to the Vestiges of Creation, the theory of that book was not so
directly opposed to Spiritualism as the natural selection theory of Darwin
and Wallace, because it supposed occasional “ leaps ” which might have
a spiritual origin in “ occasional causes,’’ which he curiously illustrated
by some singular facts in numbers brought to light by Babbage’s calcu-.
lating machine, of an unexpected alteration in the order of sequence.
Mr. Darwin’s theory is fast becoming discredited, and I think that the
theory of Robert Chambers may come to the front again, perhaps under
Dr. Blake’s notion of “ the universal solvency of time ”—whatever that
maybe—“ undisgracfed by the approbation of modern materialists”—
whatever that may mean. Henry GK Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, Jan. 21st.
Sir,—Mr. William Howitt’s letter in last week’s Spiritualist, recalls
in so vivid a manner the happy hours I spent with the illustrious
Spiritualist, Dr. Robert Chambers, that I feel impressed to corroborate
the letter of his friend.
In the year 1856 I was invited to spend a few days with his son-in-
law, then in Sheffield, where I had the pleasure of making Dr.
Chambers’ acquaintance under circumstances which admitted of no bar
in exchanging opinions, pure and truthful. At that time I was still
shaky in my belief of the spiritual nature of the phenomena, so I boldly
advanced doses of scepticism obtained from the Professors of ‘‘Matter”
in Bonn. The heroes of materialism in Germany then commanded
respect for their boldness in cutting through theological fences, and they
have produced a crop of youngsters—especially of the anti-Christian
type—who inoculate with arrogant impertinence those who have not
quite disposed of higher views and natural instincts. I,, too, had a
touch of the complaint then, and fired away. I shall never forget the
penetrating but kindly eyes of that perfect gentleman fixed upon me,
and his words: “ The facts of Spiritualism are undisputably genuine
when tested hy competent and honest m&a.; but it may to some be advis¬
able to conceal them—to cowards to deny them.” Then he looked
round the company, evidently waiting for the response of somebody “ up
to the mark,” and afterwards he gracefully turned the conversation into
another channel. C. Reimers.
Ducie Avenue, Manchester, Jan. 21st.
A SEANCE with me. eglinton.
Sir,— As one of the privileged few present at Mr. Blackburn’s seance,
held at the rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists on
Thursday evening last, with Mr. Eglinton, medium, I should like to
testify to one or two leading features of that event,' a fuller account of
which will doubtless be forwarded you by some other correspondent.
At the dark circle a lady sat to the"right of the medium, and a friend
who accompanied me to the left, and he confirms me in the statement
that the medium was levitated as high as he and the lady could reach,
both holding the medium’s hands; that the chairs of all three
were removed from beneath them while every member of the circle
held hands.
The next feature is that in addition to the usual unaccountable
phenomena so frequently reported at cabinet seances, I was invited
within the' cabinet, and while there I placed my hands lightly on the
shoulders of the medium, and in a few minutes the top bar of the chair
was lifted off the socket and thrown on to my feet. I may state that I
||
had tied the medium myself to this very part of the chair, while in
addition the medium was secured by sewing his coat-sleeves together
behind him, by sewing his coat in front of him, and covering him with
a kind of bib that was fastened all round the upper part of his person,
and by the strings of which I had tied him to the chair. The strings
had been taken off the bar without untying the knots. The medium
was examined several times during the seance, and he was always found
secured in exactly the same condition as when originally placed in the
cabinet.
It is but fair to state that my first impression, when the top bar of the
chair came off, was that the medium had leant back and broken it off
while convulsed. But on examining the bar I saw it had not been
broken, but forced up off the socket, and a minute’s reflection showed
me that had the medium broken it off, it must have then hung by the
strings by which I had fastened the medium to it. G. R. Smith.
Reading, January 22nd, 1877.
HELP FOR MRS. LAWRENCE.
Sir,—L hope you will allow me to make an appeal, through your
hospitable columns, on behalf of the wife and children of Mr. J.W. Law¬
rence, who has lately been condemned to three months’ imprisonment,
leaving his family with very scanty means of support. Mrs. Lawrence’s
business is mantle-making, but her sewing-machine, which is essential
to her work, has sustained an injury, which she is not able to repair,
and as her children are both under two years of age, she cannot leave
them to seek for work away from home.
A little aid, either in the shape of work or money, would, I think, be
well bestowed in such trouble as that of Mrs. Lawrence. I have already
received a few small sums, and will gladly take charge of any more that
may be entrusted to me on Mrs. Lawrence’s behalf.
Emily Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
[We print this letter on the ground that Mrs. Lawrence is in trouble and
requires help, and on the ground that, although we hold no conclusive
evidence that Mr. Lawrence is either a Spiritualist or a medium, a Court of
Justice cannot fairly deal with a case like his, unless by the evidence of
experts or otherwise it is made fully conversant with the nature of genuine
materialisation phenomena. Who would ask an uninformed British jury to
decide a technical point relating to the correlation of the physical forces ?—
Ed.]  
MR. RIKO’S WORK ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—A new book on Spiritualism has appeared in Holland. It is
the most elaborate work on the matter in the Dutch language, and will
no doubt have, if not at first a great run, much influence on the minds
of thinking and unprejudiced people.
The writings of Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr. W. Crookes (illustrated witli
the same engravings which appeared in the Quarterly Journal of
Science), and Mr. C. F. Varley are nearly fully translated. The author,
who is a well-known inquirer amongst Spiritualists, gives further on the
opinions of the following scientific men :—A. von Humboldt, C. Flam,
marion, H. Goldsmith, Dr. N. Wagner, Professor Butlerof, Professor
D. Gunning, Professor W. Ostrogradsky, Dr. Sexton, Victor Hugo,
Professor Max Perty, Fichte, Figuier, De Moigno, Serjeant Cox, and
several others. He (the author) shows that not only has he had a good
deal of personal experience, but that he has carefully read everything
published on th& matter in America, England, and upon the Continent,
and his own philosophical conclusions are those of the more advanced
and instructed Spiritualists. The celebrated seer and author, Andrew
Jackson Davis, finds his due place in this interesting book; the
St. Petersburg Committee’s decisions, and the Slade case, render the
book still more valuable, so it will take its place in Dutch literature, to
help to show up the arrogance of scientific men in attempting to deal
with matters which they do not understand, in consequence of noo
having studied them. A Dutchman.
VACCINATION DIRECT FROM THE CALF.
Sir,—The Government of Belgium for some time has only supplied
vaccine lymph drawn directly from the calf.
I recently obtained some of this true vaccine lymph, and having pur¬
chased a young calf I have succeeded in vaccinating him and in obtaining
a limited supply of direct lymph.
There can exist no doubt that this calf lymph is not only more power¬
ful in preventing small-pox than the enfeebled lymph now in use, but in
its use there is no possibility of communicating those constitutional
diseases so well understood by medical men and so much dreaded by a
large proportion of the population.
It has always appeared to me that a government which insists on
compulsory vaccination should take steps to supply the best possible
vaccine lymph, as in Belgium. But, as our government is not a
paternal one, I have, in the meantime, taken action as above, and I
shall be glad to give further information on personal application, or on
receipt of an envelope stamped and fully addressed.
Should this movement be appreciated by the public, it is my intention
to maintain a regular supply of direct vaccine lymph from a succession
of young healthy calves. George Wyld, M.D,
12, Great Cmnberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
[There are great differences of opinion among Spiritualists as to the value
of vaccination, and were it not for the circumstance that there are reactions
between body and soul, it would be difficult to see what the subject has to do
with these pages. Therefore, if contention arises on the subject, correspond¬
ents must confine themselves to vital points, and make their letters as short
as this one from Dr.Wyld,—Ed.]
THE APPARITION OF MAJOR BLOMBERG.
Sir,—Allow me to thank “M.A., Oxob,” for his information on this
subject of the apparition of Major Blomberg.
I did not know that the story had been in print before in any form,
Jan. 26, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
47
in which names or authorities were given, though I believe the sub- if j
stance of it appeared in an article in Once a Week. The informant |Ji
from whom I had it was a valued friend and old schoolfellow of Mr. De i) i
Morgan, who had a high opinion of him in every way, and I know, j I j
relied entirely upon his accuracy. j(i
Mr. Reece was the owner of a large plantation in Barbadoes, and I) ]
held for some years a high situation in the island. As he was well i(i
acquainted with everything connected with the government and social ] j j
arrangement of the West India Islands, he is not likely to have i)j
made any mistake in stating that Colonel Stewart was Governor of | j j
Dominica. j j i
I hope this question may be satisfactorily cleared up, for any dis- !) I
crepancy, especially so great a one as that pointed out, would throw :(i
discredit on the whole story, and render it of no value. j) j
  S. E. De Morgan. m
WILLIAM LAWRENCE. j)l
Sir,—In the Dispatch of last week there appears a paragraph to ij|
the effect that Mr. Lawrence had never been recognised as a genuine j) i
medium by the Spiritualists, who had had him at their Rooms in si
Bloomsbury on two occasions to test him, hut he failed on both |)|
occasions to give them satisfactory evidence of his powers. I am not Kj
sure that I am quoting correctly, as I have not a copy of the paper jjj
by me, and I did not attach any weight to it at first; but to-day I j/l
heard it spoken of as proof against Lawrence. Now, sir, many ijj
besides myself can bear testimony to his medial powers for the pro- j>j
duction of the usual physical phenomena, and on one occasion of \\\
which I am aware he sat under test conditions, and several drawings j]
of heads were produced, of which one was framed and preserved by m
the South London Association. As regards his materialisation jh
powers I know nothing, they having commenced after I was con- Jyj
nected with him in the Association. According to your article in iji
The Spiritualist of January 19th, you are ignorant of what the Weekly m|
Dispatch asserts (no doubt on good authority), and it would be well to i(j
have, if possible, an authoritative denial of it.
J. Burton, formerly Don. Sec. |ji
to the South London Association of Spiritualists. [j i
87, Inville-road, Walworth, S.E. jjj
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP. jjj
Sir,—Knowledge is valuable chiefly in proportion as it is practical I
and useful. It dispels the darkness which naturally broods over the jll
understanding, and dissipates a thousand superstitious notions and idle jjj
terrors by which man has been frequently held in cruel bondage. jS j
Therefore, every one who sincerely loves truth, and desires the improve- j i
ment of mankind, will diffuse light around him as extensively as he j i
can, without the least fear of its ultimate consequences; since he knows j) j
for certain, that in all cases whatever, wisdom exceeds folly, and light jjj
is better than darkness. jjj'
I feel it a pleasure, as well as my duty, to put a statement of facts j j
before your numerous readers, in connection with the healing powers of j i
Mr. De Caux. Early in April of last year I caught a severe cold, and, j
although numerous remedies were tried, failed to get clear of it. I went j
to the country in June ; and on returning to town, and feeling no better, j j
put myself under medical advice. After two months’ treatment I got j
much worse, and so dissatisfied that I left my first medical man, and j
consulted another doctor. My general health now began to give way, i
and I felt very weak, especially in the spine. This continued, more or j j
less, up to the beginning of January, when I was seized with a severe j i
attack of pleurisy and congestion of the lungs. My medical adviser j j
blistered me every other day, and kept up a continual treatment of j)i
iodine, painting, poulticing, and drugging. A lady friend, hearing of jji
my illness, and having herself received much benefit from Mr. De ij;
Caux’s treatment, kindly sent him to me. On Wednesday, January ;)j
10th, he first visited me, and having laid his hands on the affected parts, jjj
and manipulated me all over for some considerable time, I felt decidedly j j j
better, the pain greatly lessened, and all languidness taken away. After j( j
three visits all pain had gone, and I was able to converse freely on the jji
interesting topics of the day, and by the following Monday sufficiently ijj
able to go out and enjoy a long walk. Rapid improvement followed (j
each succeeding visit, and I am now perfectly recovered, feeling, ijj
both physically and mentally, better than I have done for years. jj
After Mr. De Caux’s first visit, I left off taking drugs, and allowed H
my visiting doctor to do nothing but sound me. I may state that he is jjj
quite surprised at my quick recovery.
I have no hesitation in giving my testimony to the remarkable power
possessed by Mr. De Caux, and should be wanting in gratitude to my
own friends and your readers, as well as to himself, if I failed to make
known as widely as possible one of the greatest blessings bestowed on
man, and within the reach of us all. I shall be pleased to give full in¬
formation to any who may wish to know more of this treatment.
Alexander Baird.
9, Compton-street, W.C., January 23rd, 1877.
THE SLADE APPEAL.
The hearing of this appeal at the Sessions House, Westminster, will
begin, and perhaps end, next Monday, and, were it not for personal sym¬
pathy for the temporary trouble to Dr. Slade, the result, whatever it may
be, might be regarded by Spiritualists with supreme indifference. Several
mediums in England obtain “direct writing ” phenomena, and in two
or three years the whole of the intellectual public will be fully aware of
the reality of the facts, and the conditions under which they occur.
This knowledge will then be applied by the many, as it is now by the
few. to the assertions of Messrs. Lankester and Donkin, and the whole
nation will draw strictly just conclusions, which, like the world’s verdict in
the Galileo case, will live in history for all time.
THE UTTERANCES OF A MOUTHPIECE OF A CONSER¬
VATIVE GOVERNMENT.
Mr. Staveley Hill, Q.C., and Mr. Cooper prosecuted on
behalf of the Treasury, in the recent case of William
Lawrence, an alleged medium, and Mr. Staveley Hill is
reported in the Evening Standard, of January 15 th, to have
spoken in court as follows ;—
“He might say that a system of fraud, by means of what
was called Spiritualism, was carried on through the length
and breadth of the land, and the jury would agree with him
that it was a system of fraud and imposture, and was a mode
used by the prisoner for the purpose of obtaining money by
false pretences.”
The above is a virulent attack upon a large number of
honourable and truthful subjects of the Queen, unless Mr.
Hill pleads that the word “ called ” alters the meaning which
the general tone of the sentence conveys to readers. Perhaps
there is no more unsatisfactory, no more unproductive way of
expending the funds of heavily-burdened British taxpayers,
than in law; and at the present time there are far more lawyers
in the legislature than is conducive to the national welfare,
therefore a searching examination should be made of the
sums spent by the Government in litigation. Spiritualists,
especially, should make inquiry into the national expenses
incurred in the Lawrence, Monck, and Slade cases, and into
the way in which the accounts are kept and published, for it
is anything but pleasant to be taxed to encourage the
throwing of a great slur upon a great truth, and this, too,
under the auspices of the Government.
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
On Sunday last Mr. J. J. Morse delivered two trance addresses at
Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool; that in the morning was entitled “ Spirit
Communion as Viewed by the Spirits,” that in the evening “ Spirit-Life ;
its Punishments.” In the former discourse he dwelt more particularly
upon the object, mission, and importance of angel communion, as in the
providence of God destined to counteract the repulsive teachings of this
materialistic age. His evening address tended to show that the chas¬
tisements of the future life were severe, prolonged, and reformatory, and
that there was no remission of sin without adequate repentance and con¬
trition of heart.
At Mr. Morse’s evening address, Dr. William Hitchman, president of
Liverpool Association of Spiritualists, took the chair, and in reply to a
question submitted to him in writing, namely, “What does Spiritualism
teach made the following remarks :—
It proves demonstratively that death is the gate of life, that angels
visit mortals, and commune with them, visibly and invisibly ; that man
is not “ fallen,” but slowly rising from sphere to sphere, in endless pro¬
gression, according to desert; that gf sinners ” are not cast hopelessly
away, but punished with a holy and purifying chastisement, in a
veritable spiritual crucible of sorrow and suffering. It preaches a
gospel of glad tidings; that God is our Father and Friend, eternally;
that the Infinite Spirit of the universe has written no infallible book,
creed, or articles for our learning, except the facts and phenomena
of nature, and human nature ; that as progressive beings, here or else¬
where, we must not prostrate our reason, our conscience, and our
certain knowledge at the altars of superstition and mythology, however
popular, fashionable, or orthodox. Spiritualism teaches us that “ the
world, the flesh, and the devil ” must be mortified; that in other words,
all the vicissitudes, anxieties, and disappointments of our earth-life, are
ordered for wise ends, and that their issue will be more light, greater
purity, and serener peace. Men must not regard theological definitions
more highly than they deserve, but rest their supreme happiness in
peace with God, peace with man, and communion with holy angels;
they then cannot fail to be eventually virtuous. Spiritualism, in short,
teaches us to have faith in God and goodness, and with this goal before
us His blessing is always insured.
AMERICAN INTERVENTION IN THE SLADE CASE.
The Danner of Light of January 13th contains a memorial to the
American Minister in London, which will shortly be extensively
signed, calling his attention to the prosecution of Dr. Slade. It,
among other things, speaks against a legal authority making “ his own
experience the measure of what nature permits in the way of pheno¬
mena,” and concludes thus :—“ Under these circumstances we, the
undersigned, Spiritualists and non-Spiritualists, think we are justified
in calling on your Excellency, the American Minister at the Court of
St. James, to give to this case your especial attention, and to see to it
that an American citizen, accused under an antiquated law of which he
was not cognisant, of a questionable offence, and made the victim of a
Government prosecution, is not grossly wronged and outraged through
an ignorant misconception of the medial phenomena occurring in his
presence.” The attention of the American Minister should also be
called to the way in which the case has been prejudiced by the lower
sections of the English daily press.
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 26, 1877.
HIGH COURT OF JUSTICK.—EXCHEQUER DIVISION, j®
January 29th. j./j
(Before the Lord Chief Baron and Baron Cleanly.) |}|
MONCK, APPELLANT, AND HILTON, RESPONDENT. j(j
This was what is commonly called the Huddersfield Spiritualistic in
case, in which the appellant, known as Dr. Monck, had been convicted i(l
by the justices of the borough as a rogue and a vagabond, at the instance wj
of the present respondent, Mr. Henry Hilton, the chief constable of the j(j
borough. The matter would have come before the Divisional Court of 19
Appeal from Inferior Courts, but that court has been, from the want of ]) I
judges to attend, practically abolished, and the cases have now been i f I
transferred to the three common-law divisions. f||
Mr. Matthews, Q.C., and Mr. Lockwood were counsel for the appel- j j
lant, Francis Ward Monck; Mr. Poland was for the respondent, Hilton. j\j
Mr. Matthews read the case stated for the opinion of the Court. It III
set out the circumstances of the trial at the Petty Sessions at Hudders- f j
field, on November 11th last, Francis Ward Monck (appellant) being W
brought up in custody of Chief-constable Hilton (respondent). The |)i
justices of the peace stated the main points adduced in evidence, and j / i
the conclusions to which the testimony led them, and the document thus j (j
concluded:— l>i
It was contended on the part of the appellant that the Vagrant Act was in- i||
tended to apply to gipsies and other wandering and homeless vagabonds, and j) j
that this was no offence within the meaning of section 4 of the said statute, j) |
5 George IV., c. 83, and the case of Johnson (appellant) v. Fenner (respondent), j f j
83 Justice of the Peace, page 74Q, was cited in support of this view. We, if!
however, being of opinion that the evidence given before us brought the case j > j
within the operation of the said 4th section of the Act 5 Geo. IV., cap. 83, i/j
gave our determination against the appellant in the manner before stated, j (I
The question of law arising on the above statement for the opinion of this I (I
Court, therefore, is whether we, the said justices, were correct in our view of y-j
the law, that the appellant was a rogue and vagabond within the meaning of i)!
the said 4th section of the Act 5 Geo. IV., c. 83, he having, in our opinion, !(;
upon the evidence before us, attempted to deceive and impose upon her j (I
Majesty’s subjects by using subtle craft, means, and devices. If the Court !)j
should be of opinion that the said conviction was legally and properly made, j) j
and the appellant is liable as aforesaid, then the said conviction is to stand; !tj
but if the Court should be of opinion otherwise, then the said conviction is to j (j
be quashed, j I (j
Given under our hand this 27th day of November, 1876. j I'
(Signed) John F. Brigg. j (j
W. R. Haigh. ! |
T. Walter Brooke. |)|
Robert Skilbeck. l)|
Mr. Matthews said the only material words of the Rogue and Vagrant j |
Act, 5 Geo. IV., cap. 83, sec. 4, are these: “ Every person pretending or jU
professing to tell fortunes, or using any subtle and corrupt means or |) |
device, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive or impose upon any of his l(|
Majesty’s subjects, shall be,” etc. And the question is whether the facts j (|
set out constitute an offence under these words. ! >1
Baron Cleasby: The question is whether there has been any attempt | |
to deceive or impose by the appellant; j j
Mr. Matthews: That is one part. The other question is whether the 11|
words “ by palmistry or otherwise ’’ include a case of this kind. I con- | (j
tend that they do not. This Act, as well as the older statutes, was |y|
directed against Egyptians or gipsies, and their practice of telling fortunes |) I
by looking at the lines in the palm of the hand, or by some similar |(|
mode, and they do not, in the least, apply to spiritual manifestations, |(|
even if they were for the purpose of deception. |) |
Baron Cleasby: The question is whether the appellant attempted by |(|
subtle and corrupt means to deceive or impose upon any of her Majesty’s | y|
subjects. |) |
Mr. Matthews: If you split up the words of the section in that way, j (|
they would include any attempt to deceive; but I say the Act applies ! 11
only to the distinct class of cases which I have mentioned. |) |
The Lord Chief Baron: Pretending to bring spirits from another ju
world, and they did not come—would not that be a false pretence and a | )|
deceiving of her Majesty’s subjects? |||
Mr. Matthews: You might say the Act includes a conjuring trick III
which is performed every night in London, such as taking a pocket- I |
handkerchief out of a man’s pocket by legerdemain. | j j
The Lord Chief Baron: But that would not be supernatural. I (|
Mr. Matthews: The Act does not use the word “supernatural.” j)j
There is an immense variety of deceitful things, even pretending to |(!
some occult force, which do not come within the statute—such, for |W
instance, as casting the horoscope. The Act does not apply to the M-|
automaton chess-player, which has deceived her Majesty’s subjects, and Ip
the secret of which has never yet been discovered. |(|
Baron Cleasby: Oh, yes, it has been discovered. | ) j
Mr. Matthews: But Psycho has not been discovered yet, though he | u
nightly plays whist, and the public have flocked to see him from all | >i
quarters. Clearly he does not come within the Rogue and Vagabond i)|
Act. The words of the Act of Geo. IV. are taken almost verbatim from | (I
the old Acts directed against Egyptians or gipsies, dating from the |)|
reign of Henry VIII., and which deal with offences such as palmistry, |)i
and do not include the invocation of the spirits of deceased persons. |U
Down to the reign of Geo. II. the Acts are directed against conjuration, nj
and make it penal to pretend to be a witch or conjurer. Conjuring |)|
departed spirits is not done by palmistry, and does not come within the n|
old Acts. No doubt, in the reign of Elizabeth, if a gipsy endeavoured |)|
to invoke the spirit of a deceased person, he would have been burnt or |(|
hanged. ' ijt
The Lord Chief Baron: I have not referred to the time of Elizabeth. |)i
Mr. Matthews then cited the case of “Johnson v. Fenner,” vol. 33 |||
Justice of the Peace] 740, in which it was found by the special case that 10
the defendant Johnson was standing on a chair in an open public place,
and offered to the surrounding crowd parcels in which he had apparently
placed silver coin. Johnson first dropped half-a-crown into a parcel,
and did the same thing a second time, and then apparently dropped in
a florin, offering it for sale. He asked if any one would buy the money
for Is., and a person in the crowd paid that amount for the parcel, which
on being opened was found to contain only l£d. Johnson was con¬
victed, but the case went before the Lord Chief Justice and Justices
Mellor and Hannen, and the argument then used was that the conviction
by the magistrate was wrong, for the offence must be ejusdem generis
with palmistry in order to render the person liable under the Vagabond
Act. In delivering judgment, the Lord Chief Justice held that the
conviction was wrong, regretting that the prosecution had failed, and
observed that the next time the defendant was caught he should be in¬
dicted for obtaining money by false pretences.
The Lord Chief Baron: Is your argument likely to last much longer,
Mr. Matthews ?
Mr. Matthews: I am afraid, my lordj it will occupy some time.
The Lord Chief Baron: I mean, on this point.
Mr. Matthews: On this point, my lord.
The Lord Chief Baron: Then the case must be adjourned until
Friday next.
DR. TYNDALL ON SPONTANEOUS GENERATION.
Last Friday night Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., delivered the first of
the Friday evening lectures this session at the Royal Institution, and
selected for his subject, “A Combat with an Impure Atmosphere.”
An hour before the discourse began the theatre of the institution was
crowded. Among the listeners present were Sir John Lubbock, Bart.,
M.P., Admiral Sir H. Codrington, Lady Stanley of Alderley, Dr. Lyon
Playfair, Mrs. Limond Strong, Mr. Grant Duff, M.P., Mr. William
Spottiswoode, F.R.S., Dr. E. Frankland, F.R.S., Mr. F. J. Bramwell,
C.E., Mr. G. Romanes, Mr. C. W. Siemens, F.R.S., and Mr. Warren
de la Rue, F.R.S.
Professor Tyndall said that a year ago he had delivered a lecture in
that institution, setting forth how germs floating in common air had
the power of generating life in liquid infusions of vegetable and animal
substances, and how, when such germs were filtered out, the solutions
of organic matter exposed to the filtered air would keep free from
putrescence for a lengthy, if not an indefinite, period of time. If un¬
filtered air were admitted to any of these solutions, they putrefied in
a few days. He exhibited infusions of pheasant, herring, pork, beef,
and mutton, which were as free from bacteria as when he prepared
them a year ago. He then narrated how about three months since
he attempted to similarly preserve infusions of hay, melon, cucumber,
turnip, and other vegetable substances, but they soon swarmed with
life, in spite sometimes of the previous boiling of the infusions for
several hours. At last he discovered that, although the air in his
boxes had been freed from floating particles, small bubbles of outside
air were afterwards carried into them in the liquids introduced;
these bubbles he finally got rid of by means of a “separation funnel.”
He also discovered that germs floating in air were much more difficult
to kill by prolonged heat than those floating in water. Another source
of failure was traced to the use of old hay instead of new hay. The
germs connected with the former had dried, and experiments made in
France with certain seeds from Brazil had proved that those thoroughly
dried by time were more difficult to kill by hot water than others.
The air in the Royal Institution Laboratory was very impure in the
matter of germs, especially while samples of hay were about, so he
repeated some of his experiments in the purer air of Kew, where he
found that he could with less difficulty shut out floating germs. The
results were altogether against the theory of spontaneous generation.
When his results for a time appeared to be in favour of that theory,
did he hold back their publication from fear of ridicule 1 No. There
was a title which was becoming more and more a title of honour—
he meant the name of a man of science, of which he should be
altogether unworthy did he not tread all lower motives under foot,
and did he not avow there, fully and fairly, that last year he had been
in error. (Applause.) But the argument of Hume here came into
play. When he looked into his antecedent experience it was more easy
to believe in error in his manipulations, than to believe that his pre¬
vious experience had been untrue. In the end he discovered the error
in his later experiments, and found that his antecedent results were
not invalid.
The Happy Man.—The happiest man I have ever known is one far
enough from being rich in money, and who will never be much nearer
to it. His calling fits him, and he likes it, rejoices in its process as
much as in its result. He has an active mind, well filled. He reads,
and he thinks. He tends his garden before sunrise every morning, then
rides sundry miles by the rail, does his ten hours work in the town,
whence he returns happy and cheerful. With his own smile he catches
the earliest smile of the morning, plucks the first rose of his garden, and
goes to his work with the little flower in his hand, and a great one blos¬
soming out of his heart. He runs over with charity, as a cloud with rain;
and it is with him as with the cloud, what coming from the cloud is rain
to the meadows, is a rainbow of glories to the cloud that pours it out.
The happiness of the affections fills up the good man, and he runs over
with friendship and love—connubial, parental, friendly too, and philan¬
thropic besides. His life is a perpetual “ trap to catch a sunbeam,” and
it always springs and takes it in. I know no man who gets more out of
life, and the secret of it is that he does his duty to himself, to his brother,
and to his God. I know rich men, and learned men, men of great
social position; and if there is genius in America, I know that—but a
happier man I have never known.—Theodore Parker.
Jan. 26, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
Ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
eootealls on the boundaey of another
.WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. '6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, TT.S. This
bo’ok consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
. EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practicaUy useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediunis,:also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences, is.
WHAT AM I ? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
takfen by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals |were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist "was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of affrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Yala," published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. Bd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances, at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM1MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction bv Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains tbe
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM.' 7s. 6d.
MRSmCROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. Aninteresting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE-SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work- gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s.
Lately published, in two volumes, 8vo, cloth, price 28s.
PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on the
NATURE and CONSTITUTION of MAN. By Gkoeqe
G. Hakris, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute
and Author of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisation con¬
sidered as a Science,” &c.
This work embraces a comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual connection and
dependence of each branch. Topics connected with the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions on this subject,
including the nature, essence, properties, and mode of opera¬
tion of the soul; the alliance between matter and spirit;
reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,
mode of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
in correspondence with, and have been consulted by the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed.
“ The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once a comprehensive intellect, a widespread reading and
experience, an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. All these qualities appear to be combined in Mr.
Harris.”—Westminster Review.
“ A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense research,
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of othei s.
All these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological intolerance. A perusal will lead every man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more.—Hour.
“ This work is one of considerable value, and of deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat'difflcult to lay it down when you have
once become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture
to assert that it is impossible to read a single chapter of the
book without being struck with the vast array of authorities,
ancient and modem, that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research.”—John Bull.
“Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
and modern anthropologists and philosophers with care; and
the work will always be valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
subject. Every quality and style of thought are represented
by the gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock.”—Public Opinion.
“This is a most elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity. It is, without the name, an Encyclopasdia
of man. Dr. Harris’s work is very valuable as a great collec¬
tion of facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by himself, and
many of them having been subjected to the correction of
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser*
“ The present work is the first attempt of the kind; and Dr.
Harris deserves praise for the origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In these frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to the intelligence and industry of the
author, and one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—Literary World.
“We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
the question, to seek pleasure and mstruction in its pages.
Added value is given to it by the interesting circumstance
that the proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of the author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Richardson, Dr. Newman, and many others—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—Journal of the Anthropological
nstitute.
London: George Bell & Sons, York-street, Covent-garden;
By Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAHTIEIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and- Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage Gd. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 26, 1877
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly-gifted sensitive, the, greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “hard labour,’’ and will, in January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity.
The affair is not individual, hut rela/tes to all The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the: sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support so will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers
or by the secretary.
The Executive Committee.
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-
square, South Kensington, S.W.
1J. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
cm'wyld, M.D., 12, Great Cum-
berland-place, W.
0.0. Massey.
W. S. Moses, M.A.
Hon. Sec.—A. Joy, 69, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
SUBSCRIPTIONS. £ s. d.
The St. Petersburg Committee  50 0 0
Mr. G. 0. Joad       30' 0 0
Miss Douglas        25 0 0
“Nicodemus”    25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder  21 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze   20 0 .0
Mr. Charles Blackburn   20 0 0
Countess Caithness     10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith   10 10 0
Thomas Grant.........   1  10 10 0
Mr. W. Tebb ■    10 10 0
Miss H.         10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon  ,...   10 0 0
Sir C. Isham, Bart....... :  10 0 0
Mr. A.' Tod     ;. 10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel        10 0 0 ‘
“ Eady Jane Grey ”      10 0 0
B. P. J        10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood    10 0 0
Mr. N. F; Dawe    ...,, i... 10 0 0
Prince Emil yon Wittgenstein    6 0 0
Mr. A. Joy     5 5 0
Mr. J. Enmore Jones     5 0 0
„ C. O. Massey    ,/ 5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley  5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman    5 0 0
Dr. Gteorge Wyld   5 0 0
Mr. T. E. Partridge        5 0 0
Mrs. Hennings ,...   5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun.     5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer     5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson  ...'.     5 0 0
“H.”        5 0 0
An American    5 0 0
Mrs. Bird       5 0 0
A. v. H..... ;...    5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3 10 0
Newcastle, per H. N. Kersey  3 10 0
Mrs. Strawbridge  3 3 0
Profit on Sale of Photographs     2 13 0
Mr. J. B. Stones     2 12 6
F. J. T. (collected)     2 2 6 ■
Mr. H. Withall     2 2 0
Captain James .........'...r. ;   2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)      2 2 0
Mr. C. Pearson        2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead  i..!,......,..   2 2 0
Mr. F. W. Percival   ’.   2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon.....  2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe     2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun  2 0 0
Mr. A. R. Wallace      ,200
„ J. C. Ferguson      2 0 0
“Disciple”   ;   2 0 0
Mrs. Watkins    2 0 0
Mr. J. H. Gledetanes      2 0 0
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore       2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Stones  1 1 0
„ J. Mould     110
Dr. K. Cook.....      110
K.G.     110
J.R.W  110
Mrs. Maltby J     110
Major Menars   1 1 0
Mr. J. C. Ward   110
' „ E. D. Rogers     110
„ Morell Theobald      110
„ William Theobald   110
„ R. M. Theobald, M.D  1 l o
„ H.N..          110
„ J. Andre  \!.     110
„ James Brown      110
The Misses Withall    110
Dr. Baikie.... ;      110
Anon, per C. C. Massey    ?  110
A. M. W., by Mr. J. Bums    110
Mr. T. P. Barkas     110
Mrs. J. Y. Vernon    110
Mr. Tucker   10 0
Mrs. S.Parker     10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley   1 0 0
Mr. A. Smedley   10 0'
„ F. Smedley         1 o 0
“D ” (Clericus)     100
Dr. W. M. Buchanan   10 0.
Mr. St. George Stock ....’..   ;  10 0
„ C. Reimers   10 0.
,, J.Walhouse     10 0
Scrutator   1 0 0
Smaller sums      8 10 6
Collected by Mr. J. Burns   2 7 6
/Spiritualists’ Defence Fund continued.
From America.
The following consists of amounts advertised as received by
The Banner of Light newspaper, Boston, U.S., towards the “ Slade
Defence Fund,” up to the 6th Jan., of which £370 12s. 6d. has
already been remitted to England.
dols.
Colby and Rich (Publishers Banner oj Light),
Boston...;   ;   200,00
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston    50.00
A. P. H. (a Spirit)     ;... 25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston  25,00
Henry J. Horn, N. Y. City ....,  5,00
Jefferson Cutter, Medford, Mass  3,00
G. Sweet, N. Y. City      2,00
Isaac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt   5,00'
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass    2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, O   100,00
J. L. Donaldson, Boston, Mass    5 00
W. H. R.      3,00
Chas. Levy, St. Louis, Mo  2,00
A. Fuller, Waltham. Mass    2,00
Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston   10,00
L. B. Wilson, Boston   3,00
F. A. Gould, Boston    10,00
G. H. Woodis, Worcester  2,00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y  100,00
David Appleton, Lowell, Mass...*.   100,00
Andrew Williams, Lawrence, Mass  100,00
James Codman, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass  5,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y  50,00
C. M. Burrett, New Haven, Ct   2,00
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q  2,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio  2,00
M. A. Giles      2,00
O. Giles    2,00
A Friend to the Cause...    2,00
W. Y., Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me   2,00
Geo. W. Smith, Boston, Mass   20,CO
J. DuBois, Everett, Pa    5,00
Mrs. A. O. Whittemore. New Boston, Ct.  3,00
L. K. Joslin, Providence, R. 1  3,00
Jas. T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind  10,00
Chas. P. Perot, Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
A Friend, Spencer, Mass....  2,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
H. G. Wjrte, Buffalo, N. Y   2,00
Joseph Kinsey   5,00
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Tucke  3,00
Martin Hiscox, Providence, R. 1  2,00
Henry Rennan, W. Meriden, Conn i.. 2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111  2,00
“ A Liberal,” Greenville, Me     3,00
H. K. Morrill .j......„ 2,00
Jos. P. Hazard, Peacedale, R. I   5,00
Dr. G. B. Brooklyn, N. Y  3,00
J. N. H., Peacedale, R. I   25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield, Mass  2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport, Conn  5,00
F. R. Baker, Topeka, Kan    5,00
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass  2,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass  5,00
Warren S. Barlow, St. Johnsbury, Vt  5,00
Frederick Schroeder, Papineau, 111.    2,50
Joseph Schroeder, ditto     5,00
Samue Robinson, Swansea, Mass  2,00
David A. Mundy, Rahway, N. J   2,00
“A Friend of the Banner”    50,00
J. W. Robins, M.D., Uxbridge, Mass  2,00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Roberts, Rush, N.Y  2,00
J. B. Angel, Red Bank, N. J    5,00
Lucy James, Danielsonville, Conn  6,85
Wm, A. Atkins, Provincetown, Mass  5,00
Mrs. Chas, Baldwin, Fayville, Mass  5,00
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass    2,00
A. M. Gaffield, ditto....  2,00
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass  2,00
Mrs. A. L. Pratt, New Haven, Conn  2,00
Samuel Smart, Willoughby, Ohio    2,00
Joseph Dimmock, Stonington, Conn  2,00
Robert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  3,00
Jas. Lawrence, ditto    3,00
S. O. Moses, Mendota, HI   2,00
B. L. Wade, Jefferson, Ohio  10,00
C. R. Brooklyn, N. Y  2,00
J. F. Hamilton, Berlin, Wis  2,00
E, Man, Litchfield, Mich  5,00
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbour, Mich  2,00
Calven Westover, Oxford, N. Y  10,00
Friends, Charlotte, Mich  2,50
S. G. N. Millerton, N. Y.    2,00
E. R. Whiting, New Haven, Conn  5,00
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y  2,00
W. M. C„ Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
B. Ellis, Plymouth, Mass  2,00
S. H. Austin, Syracuse, N.Y  2,00
Jas. Thompson, Devonport, la  2,00
Levi P. Benjamin, Friendship, N.Y  2,00
Luther R. Ames, Worcester, Mass    2,00
Ansel Edwards, New Orleans, La    3,00
Thomas B. Watford, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
J. L., New Jersey   2,00
Mrs. M. A E. Green, W. Winfield, N.Y  5,00
Dr. J. S. Loucks, Potsdam, N.Y  2,00
Robert Rutherford, Rochester, N.Y  5,00
From One who Hates Persecution   10,00
J. D. Wheeler, Acton, Mass   I..7.. 2,00
Henry Miller, Sacramento, Cal..  10,00
M. A. Britton, Santa Rosa, Cal  2,00
Harvey Lyman, Springfield, Mass   2,00
James S. Draper, Way land     2,00
Isaac Snow, Boston, Mass.   5,00
C. N. Lyme, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
Mrs. Lavelette       '■ 5,00
Sundry persons     16,13
L. Elliott, Live Oak, Fla.    2,50
Joseph Willoughby, Manchester, N.H  2,00 ■
W. N. Choate, Jackson Mills, Mich.  5,00
E. J. Kempton, New Bedford, Mass    2,00
Granville W. Lukens, Mt. Holly, N.J  2,00
Mrs. G. W. Keene, Lynn, Mass  5,00
Charles Chittenden, Boston, Mass  3,00
F. T. Houghton, San Francisco, Cal  2,00
P. A. Cornell, Central Village, Conn  2,00
Friends, New Britain, Conn  6,50
Friend of Religious Freedom, Dalton, Pa. ...... 2,00
S. Morton, Winslow, N.J      2,00
Lucius Bond, Dalton, N.H   2,00
I. L. Sage, Frankfort, Ky...      3,50
Spiritualists’ Defence Fund continued.
A. J. Kenney, Pana, 111    2,00
Mary S. Doty and S. B. Smith, Peru, N.Y. ... 5,00
Geo. Watt, Augusta, 111  2,00
E ben Snow, Cambridge, Mass  2,50
H. H. Ostrom, Alton, N.Y  2,00
Mrs. Sarah Compton, Hyde-park, Pa   3,00
A. A. Wheelock, hj behalf of “The Progressive
Society of Spiritualists ” of Utica, N.Y  80,00
A Lady Friend, Salem, Mass  6,00
Friend, Medfleld, Mass      10,00
J. J. Miller, Millerstown, Mo  2,00
“Heliotrope,” Petaluma, Cal  5,00
W. V. Thompson, Pleasantville, Pa    2,00
F, A. Grove, M.D., Kirksville, Mo   2,00
E. Y. Johnson, Warren, R.1  2,00
J. Bisby, Hamilton, Ont    5,00
Jonathan Hatch, Easton, Me     2,00
Hugh Jones, Erie, Pa  2,00
Addison Kelley, Kelley’s Island, Ohio  2,00
Mrs. E. R. Huntington, Kelley’s Island, Ohio 2,00
Hiram Frank, W. Bangor, N.Y    2,00
I. S. Carter, San Bernardino, Cal  2,50
A Lady Friend, San Bernardino, Cal  5,00
S. A. Morse, Philadelphia, Pa   2,00
H. Anderman, New Philadelphia, Ohio   2,00
Thos. Gales Forster, N.Y. City  25,00
Walter Byren   2,00
Nathaniel Esty, E. Westmoreland, N.H   2,00
J. A. Barnes, Olympia, W.T  5,00
Mrs. A. A. Fordtram, Brenham, Tex  2,00
Chas. Livingston   5,00
Hannah Ketcham, Laur, 111   2,00
Sylvester Higgins, Bellevue, Mich  2,00
Jno. M. Kennedy, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
M. Bamberger, Piedmont, W. Va  2,00
Wm. S. Moore, Norwichville, Ont   • 2,00
Levi Walker, Belleville, O   2,00
E. Foster, South Bend, Ind  7,00
Mrs. T. J. Skidmore, Fredonia, N.Y.    20,00
Friends, Waverly, N.Y    10,00
Sums under two dols. (353 subs.)   321,45
HOW TO FOEM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
. harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ‘under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letter^ of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this' time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “ Who is the medium ? ” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
A medium is usually a person of an impulsive, affectionate,
and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Mediums are of both sexes.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and
all the members of the circle are strongly bound together by
the affections, and are thoroughly comfortable and happy.
Family circles with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other
forms of mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appear¬
ance, while by sitting regularly two or three times a week the
manifestations will rapidly develope.
Among the varied phases of the phenomena already ob¬
served by investigators may be noted the following:—Move¬
ment of physical objects, both with and without contact with the
sitters ; direct writing, drawing, and voices; entrancement;
trance and inspirational utterance ; temporary materialisa¬
tions ; involuntary writing ; healing; visions; impressions;
as well as many phenomena observed in the study of mesmer¬
ism and clairvoyance.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described by
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London. E.O.
ANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W *
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Alles, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
