A ^ECOF(D Of THE PROQREgg Of THE gCIEJICE /ND ETHICg OF fPIF;iTU/.ygM.
No. 11.—Voi. I. LONDON : FRIDAY, JULY 15, 1870.
THE MESMERIC INFIRMARY.
All Spiritualists know very -well that mesmerism is
true, and have heard more or less of the efforts of Dr.
Elliotson, F.R.S., to overcome popular and scientific pre¬
judices against it, by his zeal in publishing evidence in
its favour in the valuable periodical called The Zoist,
and by the establishment of the Mesmeric Infirmary.
A few days ago we paid a visit to the infirmary to learn
something about it, and Mr. Thomas Chandler, M.R.C.S.,
who has been a member of the council of managers
from the first, and who now has the establishment under
his control, very kindly and freely gave all the informa¬
tion desired.
The London Mesmeric Infirmary, 36, Weymouth-
street, Portland-place, was founded in 1849, at a meet¬
ing held at the house of Earl Ducie, Dr. Elliotson and
most of the other few supporters of the movement, me¬
dical and lay, being present. From the day of its
foundation to the present time, it has led a very quiet
life, doing good from one year’s end to another in pro¬
portion to the funds at its command, and always having
more applications for treatment from patients than
could be entertained. The patients who seek for relief
by processes so thoroughly condemned by the orthodox
medical professors, are usually persons who apply because
they have seen and know that some of their friends
have been cured of inveterate diseases by mesmerism;
others of the patients are sent by the subscribers to the
institution.
~ Several men of eminence, well kno wn to our sub¬
scribers as possessing considerable knowledge of psycho¬
logical phenomena, have in past years actively worked on
behalf of the Mesmeric Infirmary. Chief among these
was Dr. Elliotson, once of so much eminence in the
orthodox medical profession that it was thought he
would be appointed Court physician, yet he lost a prac¬
tice of thousands a-year for telling the truth about
mesmerism. Before his death, however, as the popular
prejudices against mesmerism somewhat wore off, he
recovered most of his former practice. Shortly before
he passed on to the next life, he became a Spiritualist.
Another leading supporter of the institution is the Earl
of Dunraven, F.R.S., who has for years, in public and
in private, worked in its favour, and he is its present
president. The late Earl Stanhope, one of the vice-
presidents of the Mesmeric Infirmary, subscribed hand¬
somely to its funds; he was for many years a strenuous
advocate of mesmerism; he never flinched from declaring
his opinions, and he sometimes himself mesmerised the
poor. Dr. Whately, Archbishop of Dublin, was presi¬
dent of the Mesmeric Infirmary for ten years, and here
is what he wrote about mesmerism
' “ That hook about doctors, by Mr. Jefferson, is rather late in the attempt
to hold up mesmerism to derision. The attempt might have been more
promising twenty or thirty years ago; since then the belief in it has spread
steadily, and not very slowly, among persons who are not commonly
accounted either fools or mad. Now, although in religion the most gross
errors may prevail for ages, because they cannot be fully exposed till the
Day of Judgment, it is not so with matters of fact, which are open to ex¬
amination and experiment. In these, a delusion which may prevail for a
time, will generally, in a few years, die away. It is seldom that in such
matters error can permanently be established, or truth finally suppressed.
I remember the vehement opposition which prevailed, when I was a lad, to
vaccination; but before long it died away. I myself was for many years
strongly reluctant to believe in [mesmerism, but I was at length overcome
by facte. Any amount of detected mistake or imposture will no more go to
disprove a well-established fact than the detection of a number of pieces of
counterfeit coins will prove a genuine shilling and sovereign not to be
genuine silver and gold. To take one case out of a multitude: I witnessed,
day after day, and week after week, the gradual restoration to sight, under
mesmeric treatment, of a woman who had been blind for twenty-seven
years, a great part of which time I had personally known her. Her eyes
were as white as this paper, so that there was no room for deception either
in her former blindness or in her restoration to sight. If anyone thinks
that this was the work of imagination, let him, for pity’s sake, try a hand
himself at curing the blind by imagination.
“With this, and many similar cases before me, besides many reports of
the like from credible persons, I could not maintain disbelief; and to sup¬
pose that we are all so mad as to believe that things are taking place before
our eyes which did not, and all are mad in the same way, is utterly incredible.
No one, I am convinced, who has seen what I have seen, or half of it, can
remain unconvinced that mesmerism is a real and powerful agent. Those
who profess complete disbelief, therefore, must belong, I conceive, to one
of two classes: first, those who have made but a slight and scanty enquiry,
or none at all, and shun full investigation, lest they should be convinced—
which is what they do not wish; and secondly, those who have inquired
more fully, and really are convinced, but are afraid to own it, for fear of
being laughed at, "or being sent ‘to Coventry’ by a kind of Trades’ Union
conspiracy. A physician in high practice confessed privately to a friend of
his, whom I knew, and who told it to me without divulging the name, that
he fully believed in the reality of many of the mesmeric phenomena, but
that he dare not acknowledge this publicly, ‘because,’ said he, ‘it would
cost me two or three thousand a-year, which is more than I can afford to
ose.’"
The following is the last speech made in public by
Dr. Elliotson on the subject of mesmerism, and it con¬
sists of a few remarks he made in reply to a vote of
thanks accorded to him, at the twelfth annual meeting
of the Mesmeric Infirmary, held at Willis’s Rooms, June
18th, 1861-
“Dr. Elliotson rose and returned thanks to the meeting, and said the time
had now at length come when mesmerism could no longer be kept back.
All truths had to undergo a period of rejection. Newton’s discoveries were
long utterly rejected by astronomers, and even in his own University of
Cambridge, into which they actually got admission by a device of the Eev.
Dr. Samuel Clarke, who, as it were by stealth, introduced them in the form
of notes to the Cartesian text book, used by the tutors in the colleges.
Great astronomers and mathematicians, such as Cassini and Maraldi, calcu¬
lated the paths of comets on imaginary hypotheses, long after Halley had
constructed, on the principles of Newton, tables by which the motions of
all comets that ever appeared, or can appear, might be easily deduced.
Yoltaire remarks that, although Newton lived almost forty years after the
publication of his great discoveries, he had not twenty followers out of
England at the time of his death. Some great philosophers of the time died
in perfect ignorance of Newton’s doctrine. The Bev. Dr. Chalmers says of
it, “Authority scowled upon it, taste was disgusted with it, and fashion
was ashamed of it.”
Records of all the cases which have been treated at
the infirmary have been entered in its books, together
with the names and addresses of the patients. Statistics
can be drawn up from these records, to give overwhelm¬
ing evidence of the curative powers of mesmerism.
One obstacle which prevents many people from re¬
ceiving the boon offered to man by the Almighty, in
the shape of the natural power in human beings of
alleviating sickness and pain by mesmerism, is “ the
religious difficulty ”—the same difficulty in fact which
has kept back education in this nation for years, and
which even now cripples good legislation on the subject,
thereby aiding the perpetuation of ignorance and crime.
As mesmerism often cures diseases, these people con¬
clude that it is all “ the work of the devilso the
managers of the Mesmeric Infirmary steer as clear as
possible of the spiritual phenomena which often inevit¬
ably accompany mesmeric manipulations, whereby they
are able to convey the idea, either that mesmerism is
no devil at all, or, as Dr. Edmunds of the Dialectical
Society hath it, “ a very mild kind of devil.” Here is
what is said in the last report of the managers of the
Mesmeric Infirmary:—
“ Our success in the treatment of various classes of maladies continues
unabated. Our motto still is: ‘ The alleviation and cure of disease, and the
relief and prevention of pain, by mesmerism, ana mesmerism only.’ To
this object we steadily confine ourselves. Our aim is not to excite wonder
or rouse attention by the exhibition of abnormal manifestations, to the ex¬
amination of which the curious and the idle are invited, but rather by a simple
process of nature, which all can practice, and by which all can benefit, to
communicate ease or health to the suffering and the sick. If phenomena
spontaneously present themselves, we do not reject them, but we do not
seek for them. For example, somnambulism, clairvoyance, introvision,
prediction,' &c., sometimes offer themselves to our notice, and we avail
ourselves of these phenomena in the treatment of disease, so far as they
appear instructive or serviceable, but we do not lean upon them with undue
confidence. We know how uncertain and unreliable these manifestations
repeatedly are, and though they are facts in nature, which are occasionally,
or perhaps even often developed, nevertheless our system of treatment is
hot built upon them. ' With ourselves the spectator is nobody, and the
patient everything, and a course of passes or manipulations by which a
healthier action may be imparted to the frame of the sufferer, with or with¬
out sleep, as the case may be, is the single method to which we direct our
attention. In this process there is nothing of quackery, nothing to create
astonishment, or to generate alarm; the patient best knows whether or not
he has derived benefit from his attendance; and it is to the results in each
case to which we appeal, and by which we ask that our system should be
tested.
To go furtber, tbe managers^ we find, try to get rid
even of tbe milk-and-water devil, mesmerism, by the
invention of <£ medical rubbing,” as will be seen by tbe
following curious advertisement:—
“Those who prefer medical rubbing to mesmerism are informed that they
can obtain the most experienced rubbers—male or female-—by applying at
the Mesmeric Infirmary, 36, Weymouth-street, who will, if required, strictly
avoid mentioning animal magnetism or mesmerism to any friends of the
patient, as it is well-known that some persons are prejudiced against it,
who will nevertheless readily believe in medical rubbing—which is, in fact,
only another name for mesmerism, practised in a less efficient and scientific
manner.”
Tbe medical profession has altogether kept aloof from
the Mesmeric Infirmary, and never in any way made
any attempt either to observe or investigate, although
from the foundation of the infirmary in 1849, every
facility has been placed in the way of enquirers. Phy¬
sicians from foreign countries, however, are an excep¬
tion to this rule, for many of the leading medical men
who visit London from the Continent, also from the
United States and Canada, call at the Mesmeric In¬
firmary, and inquire into its working and operations.
In most modern English medical books, however, they
admit much about mesmerism, but change its name and
call it “ artificial somnambulism.” That the medical
profession is practically a trades’ union in those in¬
stances wherein its commercial interests clash with the
public good, is abundantly proved by the circumstance
that it strenuously opposes the attempt to train up pro¬
perly educated lady midwives to attend those patients
who can pay fees, although they think such trained
ladies might possibly beneficially attend paupers. If
the public learn a little about mesmerism, so as to be
able to alleviate much sickness in their own homes
without cost, manifestly the demand for physic bottles
will fall off.
The Mesmeric Infirmary is at present under the
charge of Mr. Thomas Chandler, M.R.C.S., who attends
on the premises daily, Sundays excepted, from ten to
twelve o’clock. In the, course of conversation. Dr.
Chandler told us that about thirty years ago, Professor
Huxley was one of his articled pupils, consequently at
that time he saw not a little of mesmerism, but he
would not follow up the subject, as he saw no chance of
understanding the nature of the phenomena. This
shows how the brightest intellects are not at all points
free from irrationalities, for manifestly, if we cannot
understand the nature of a good thing, that is no reason
why we should not use it; nobody knows the nature of
the force which enables a steel magnet to attract iron,
yet it would be unwise to abolish galvanometers, relays,
Morse instruments, and other apparatus necessary for
the transmission of messages by telegraph, simply be¬
cause we know nothing of magnetism except by its
effects.
As has been already stated, the Mesmeric Infirmary
has been living a very quiet life for more than twenty
years; in fact that life has of late been much too quiet,
for the Whatelys and the Stanhopes, and the leading
supporters of old, are for the most part dead, and the
infirmary is on the point of closing its doors for want of
funds. In a fortnight it is the intention of the managers
to write to the present subscribers to ask them not to
forward their usual remittances, the annual income
being now so small that the infirmary must cease to
exist at Christmas next. To carry on the infirmary as
it is at present, additional income to the extent of ,£400
a-year is necessary; and to carry it on with greater
efficiency still, considerably more income would be re¬
quired to pay the salaries of mesmerists of all degrees
of education and culture, that patients of all degrees
may be suitably attended. Here, then, is an opportunity
for Spiritualists to come forward at once, to put new
life into this noble institution, and those who are will¬
ing to take part in the work, cannot do better than
write at once to Dr. Chandler, a gentleman who has
worked so long and so unselfishly on behalf of the Mes¬
meric Infirmary, and who, although an eminent member
of the orthodox medical profession, has not been afraid
to speak out what he knows to be true. On all hands
people are now beginning to try to explain away the
startling phenomena of Spiritualism by stating it to be
“ all mesmerism,” and this is rapidly strengthening the
foundations of the latter science, which consequently
before long must be very seriously investigated both by
Spirituahsts and the public. As circumstances will call
for such investigation in a year or two, the present
time-honoured mesmeric institution should not be allowed
to die, and no better tribute could be paid to the memory
of the Dr. Elliotson we all respect so much, than to
come forward at once, and put new life into the institu¬
tion he loved so well.
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
IN THESE PARTS.—PART ONE.
The most satisfactory proofs of the spiritual origin of
the marvellous manifestations now so common, are per¬
haps those wherein one or two spirits make themselves
palpably visible to all the members of the circle, as in
the case where the sister of Mr. S. C. Hall, editor of
the Art Journal, made herself visible to him and eight
other witnesses at the same time, as recorded in the first
number of this journal. In the narrative which follows,
not only did the spirits make themselves visible, but
one of them was seen to write messages in pencil on
cards, which writing, on comparison with letters penned
during her life in the body, proves to be identical; the
writing also is utterly different from that of any member
of the circle who witnessed the manifestations.
Owing to the circumstance that it has only just be¬
come possible to authenticate the following narrative,
we for the first time call attention to, and republish the
records, part of which were first printed in the Spiritual
Magazine in articles written by Mr. B. Coleman, whilst
the remainder were printed in the Planchette, or the
Despair of Science, by Epes Sargent, published a few
months ago by Messrs. Triibner and Co., Paternoster-
row.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Bernard-villas, Upper
Norwood, made a trip to America in April, 1861, for
the express purpose of making the acquaintance of the
82
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1870.
best known Spiritualists in that country, and of examin¬
ing the facts of Spiritualism at the fountain head, and
it must be admitted, from the number of extraordinary
incidents he has brought together in a small volume,
now out of print,* he fully succeeded. Mr. Coleman
states that a day or two after his arrival in New York,
he attended a meeting of Spiritualists held at Dodsworth
Hall, where Dr. John F. Gray, a leading physician of
that city, gave an account of two seances at which a
friend of his had obtained manifestations of such a start¬
ling character, that even the audience, composed of
Spiritualists as it was, hesitated to accept the testimony.
Dr. Gray was not at liberty to give the name of the
gentleman who had witnessed them, but in reply to the
sceptical remarks which were made by many present,
he said that from his intimate knowledge of the man,
of his high character and standing in the city, and his
acute powers of observation, coupled with the fact that
he had been up to the time of these occurrences, which
happened within the previous two or three weeks, an
entire unbeliever, he, Dr. Gray, fully believed in them
himself, difficult as it was from their past experiences
to realise anything so extraordinary. Mr. Coleman was
the only one of a very large audience who ventured to
say that he was prepared to accept Dr. Gray’s state¬
ment ; for having himself witnessed very extraordinary
phenomena in England, further developments were to
be expected; it was only a question of degree where all
was marvellous. He only required good evidence, but
it was to be regretted in this case, that the witness of
these strange manifestations should not himself venture
to proclaim the facts.
The remarks made by Mr. Coleman at that meeting
won the confidence of the gentleman, Dr. Gray’s friend,
who happened to be seated by Mr. Coleman’s side, and
who at the close of the meeting presented his card, and
said he would be happy to give Mr. Coleman all the
particulars, which went beyond Dr. Gray’s statement.
This he subsequently did, and Mr. Coleman was so fully
satisfied that he ventured to publish the narrative, which
is well known among the older Spiritualists in this
country as “ The Story of Estelle.” The first observer
of these manifestations continued his investigations with
the same medium, Miss Kate Eox (who was the first
through whom these modern spiritual manifestations
commenced in America, now more than twenty-one
years ago), and they grew in wonder for two years,
during which time the chief observer regularly trans¬
mitted them to Mr. Coleman for publication. As we
have said, taken as a whole, they are the most marvel¬
lous spiritual manifestations upon record, so much so
that we should not have called attention to them and
reproduced them in these columns, had we not been
allowed to see the original letters in Mr. Coleman’s
possession and been permitted to publish the name of the
chief observer, or in some other way to place the seal
of authenticity on the narrative. Eor this purpose, a
few days ago, we called upon Mr. Coleman, who pro¬
duced his private correspondence on the subject, and
thus enabled us to lay the facts before our readers, feel¬
ing perfect confidence in the genuineness of this very
remarkable history.
The banking firm of Livermore, Clews, axd Mason, is
well known in the City of New York, and the chief
witness of the manifestations in question is Mr. Charles
E. Livermore, the senior partner of that firm. They
were one of some two or three firms who were appointed
bankers to the Government, and conducted very large
financial operations during the whole period of the late
civil war, after which Mr. Livermore retired from busi¬
ness, and has since made two visits to Europe, when
Mr. Coleman had at length the satisfaction of intro¬
ducing him to the leading Spiritualists of London, to
whom he repeated his experiences, and thus relieved
Mr. Coleman from the responsibility of making state¬
ments almost too marvellous for even the initiated to
receive, without misgivings as to their trustworthiness.
In the well known trial of Mumler, the “spirit”
photographer, which took place in New York about a
year ago, Mr. Livermore, with the manliness of a
gentleman, threw aside his incognito, and presented
himself as a witness on behalf of this man, who was
accused- of fraud in producing spirit likenesses. By
Mr. Livermore’s direct and positive evidence, that he
had himself obtained three portraits of his deceased
wife, Mumler was acquitted. This fact, by the way,
the daily press in this country omitted to make known,
although it published the accusation and the first part
of the trial.
It is with Mr. Coleman’s permission that we now
publish Mr. Livermore’s name, sanctioned by a letter
which Mr. Coleman has recently received from him,
from which the following is an extract:—
“ The subject of Spiritualism has become one of great
interest to intelligent minds here now, and one is not
considered so much of a lunatic in consequence of his
belief, as was the case only a few years since. I have
been so forced before the public that I have very little
delicacy now in my name appearing as a believer; but
of course I do not wish notoriety, and shrink from it,
| Spiritualism in America. By Benjamin Coleman. London, 1861. F.
Pitman.
unless there is some potent reason why I should come
out.”
In addition to the foregoing, we have the authority
of Mr. C. E. Yarley, C.E., of Eleetwood House, Becken¬
ham, Kent, to state that Mr. Livermore, Dr. Gray, and
Miss Kate Eox, have all personally testified to him that
they witnessed manifestations similar to those spoken of
in the following narrative. Our first selections are from
Mr. Coleman’s book, beginning with Mr. Livermore’s
statement, on page twenty-four :—
“ The lights being extinguished, footsteps were heard as of
persons walking in their stocking feet, accompanied by the
rustling sound of a silk dress. It was then rapped out by
the alphabet—1 My dear, I am here in form, do not speak.’
A globular light rose up from the floor behind me, and as it
became brighter, a face, surmounted by a crown, was distinctly
seen by the medium and myself. Next, the head appeared,
as if covered with a white veil: this was withdrawn after the
figure had risen some feet higher, and I recognised unmistake-
ably the full head and face of my wife, surrounded by a semi¬
circle of light about eighteen inches in diameter. The recogni¬
tion was complete, derived alike from the features and her
natural expression. The globe of light was then raised, and
a female hand held before it was distinctly visible. Bach of
these manifestations was repeated several times, as if to leave
no doubt in our minds. Now the figure, coming lower down,
and turning its head, displayed falling over the globe of
light, long flowing hair, which even in its shade of colour,
appeared like the natural tresses of my wife, and like hers was
unusually luxuriant. This whole mass of hair was whisked
in our faces many times, conveying the same sensations as if
it had. been actually human natural hair. This also was
frequently repeated, and the hair shown to us in a variety of
ways. The light and the rustling sound then passed roun d
the table and approached me, and what seemed to the touch a
skirt of muslin was thrown over my head, and a hand was
felt as if holding it there. A whisper was now heard, and the
words,‘ Sing, sing,’were audibly pronounced. I hummed an
air, and asked—* Do you like that ? ’ | Yes, yes,’ was plainly
spoken in a whisper, and in both cases I recognised distinctly
the voice of my wife, to which I had become sensitively
familiarised during her last illness, when she had become too
weak to talk aloud. An arm was passed round my neck, and
I asked her to kiss me. The light immediately approached
me, and a form like a face touched me sensibly twice on the
left side of my mouth. A head then reclined on mine, the
long hair falling over my face and shoulder, and remained
there until the heat became unbearable. A bright light then
appeared, and disclosed a figure with the arm raised over its
head. I asked for an explanation of the nature of the drapery,
and it was answered by the raps :—It is a spiritual garment
naturalised. I will bring you the key.’ Footsteps and the
rustling indicated a movement towards the door, and the sofa
which was against the key was removed, the key turned in
the lock, and was then placed in my outstretched hand.
“ The manner of making the raps was also shown by another
spirit, thus :—a luminous ball about the size of my hand, with
a blunt point attached to it, about three inches above the
table, answered our questions by striking against it,” &c., &c.
“ At another sitting, a few days after, the same precautions
and conditions being observed, the following phenomena were
witnessed:—
“ ‘ The table was lifted from the floor, the door violently
shaken, the window-sash raised ahd shut several times, and in
fact, everything moveable in the room seemed in motion.
“ ‘ Questions were replied to by loud knocks on the door, on
the window, ceiling, table, everywhere ; all being the work of
several powerful spirits, who were present, and whose presence
was necessary, as it was afterwards explained, to support or
induce the manifestations of a more beautiful and interesting
character.
“ ‘ An illuminated substance like gauze rose from the floor
behind us, accompanied by a heavy rustling sound like a silk
dress. The previously-described electrical rattle became very
loud and vigorous. The figure of a female passed round the
table, and, approaching us, touched me. The gauzy substance
was shaped as though covering a human head, and seemed as
if drawn down tight at the neck. Upon close examination,
as it approached near me a second time, it changed its form,
and now seemed in folds over a melon-shaped oblong, concave
on one side, and in this cavity there appeared an intensified
brilliant light. By raps I was requested to look beyond the
light. I looked as directed, and saw the appearance of a
human eye. Again receding with the rattle, the light became
still brighter, and then re-approaching, the gauze which had
changed in form was grasped by a naturally-formed female
hand, and unfolding, revealed to me, with a thrill of inde¬
scribable happiness, the upper half of the face of my wife,
the eyes, forehead, and expression in perfection. The moment
the emotion of recognition had passed into my mind it was
acknowledged by a succession of quick raps. The figure dis¬
appeared and re-appeared several times, the recognition be¬
coming each time more nearly perfect, with an expression of
calm and beautiful serenity. I asked her to kiss me if she
could, and, to my great astonishment and delight, an arm was
placed around my neck, and a real palpable kiss was implanted
on my lips, through something like fine muslin. A head was
laid upon mine, the hair falling luxuriantly down my face.
The kiss was frequently repeated, and was audible in every
part of the room. The light then moved to a point about
midway between us and the wall, which was distant about ten
feet. The rattling increased in vigour, and the light, graduall/
illuminating that side of the room, brought out in perfection
an entire female figure facing the wall, and holding the light
in her outstretched hand, shaking it at intervals, as the light
grew dim. My name and her name were repeated in a loud
whisper, and among other things which occurred during this
remarkable sitting, the figure at the close stood before the
mirror, and was reflected therein'
“ The incidents of another evening were thus described:—
‘ The lights and electrical rattle were as strong as on the
previous occasions. Hands were placed upon my forehead, a
head placed upon mine; the hair, as before, faPing down my
face into my hand. I grasped it, and found it positively and
unmistakeably human hair ; it was afterwards whisked play¬
fully at me, creating as much wind as an ordinary fan. The
spiritual robe was then dropped over my head and face, and
felt as real and substantial as cotton or muslin of a very fine
texture. At one time, the globe of light extended to about
two feet in diameter. At last, it was shaken with another
sharp rattle, and shining brightly, revealed again the full
head and face of my wife, every feature in perfection, but
spiritualised in shadowy beauty such as no imagination can
conceive, or pen describe. In her hair, just above the left
temple, was a single white rose, the hair being arranged with
great care. The next appearance, after a brief interval, re¬
vealed the same face, with a pink rose instead of a white one.
The whole head and face were shown to us, stt least twenty
times during th©.sitting, and each time was recognised by me,
the perfection of the recognition being in proportion to the
brilliancy of the light. During the whole of these manifesta¬
tions, cards of a large size, provided by myself, were placed
on the floor with a pencil, and long messages were found to
have been written upon them.’ ”
Just before leaving New York, Mr. Coleman received
the following letters and diary extracts from Mr. Liver¬
more :—
“ ‘ My dear Sir,—I enclose herewith two cards, facsimiles,
as nearly as I can write them, of those you have seen. The
division of words and sentences, and the underscoring is pre¬
cisely the same as in the original. They were written for me
by spirit-hands, in the presence of Miss Fox. I have had as
many as six of these cards written upon both sides at one
sitting, and most of my communications have been written in
this way.
“ ‘ My first experience was in February last. I have never
sat with any medium except Miss Catherine Fox, and up to
the time I first saw her I was not only a thorough sceptic, but
had taken no interest in the subject. The accounts of the
extraordinary manifestations published by Dr. Gray were
written by me at his request, in order to avoid any exaggera¬
tion which might creep into a verbal narrative. You may rely
upon the facts as being exact in every particular, the same
having been witnessed by Miss Fox, both of us being in a
normal condition. Each manifestation was promised by the
spirits, and the time appointed beforehand in their own hand¬
writing on cards. You are quite at liberty to state the facts
related by me to you, but for reasons which you understand
I beg you will .withhold my name. Wishing you a pleasant
voyage and safe return to your friends, I am, &c.,
B. Coleman, Esq. J. F. Livermore.’
“ ‘ April 30,1861,—I enclose herewith a facsimile of another
remarkable card,' written for me last night, which I have no
doubt you will be glad to have. I called at the St. Nicholas,
a few minutes after you had left, and regret that I missed
seeing you, as I should have liked to have shown you the
original. It is so near an approach to perfection in its execu¬
tion, not a word misplaced, &c. Another card was written at
the same time, purporting to come from Dr. Hull, a valued
friend of mine, and brother-in-law of Dr. Gray. Thus far
every promise has been literally fulfilled. One only has not
been as perfectly accomplished as I expected, namely, that
of conversing in familiar tones on the part of my wife. If
any further remarkable development occurs, I shall send an
account of ft to you,’ &c.
“ The card enclosed was neatly written on both sides, and in
the following terms:—‘ My darling,—We have much to
contend with, but we must be patient and abide God’s time,
which will, I know, be soon. When there is anxiety in your
mind, it is almost impossible to come near you, and therefore
I pray be not wishful or too anxious. I have been with you
to-day, and the past was vividly recalled when returning home
to the room where I had passed so many happy hours. Even
my last moments were made precious, a peace surpassing all
earthly power entered my soul while I waited for the bride¬
groom to come. God bless you, darling; bless you when you
rise in the morning, and bless you when you rest at night.
Thine shall be a happy future. Flowers are blooming in
heaven for me, and I am with the pure and holy. Live a pure
life.—Estelle. When can I meet my dear father ? Love
to him.—Estelle.’ ”
Mr. Coleman adds:—
“ I can imagine nothing more real than the earnest, affec¬
tionate, tone of these letters ; the anxious desire to be remem¬
bered by her father, to whom, I was told, she was especially
attached, is a peculiar feature of these communications. Be¬
lieving that I cannot relate anything which will interest the
reader more than Mr. Livermore’s experiences, though I have
yet in store something of a different character quite as mar¬
vellous, witnessed by myself, I shall continue the narrative,
and give the reader the information which has reached me
since my return to England, in letters I have received from
Mr. Livermore, and which, as will be seen, contain an account
of further most astounding manifestations, and present some
suggestions which will, no doubt, interest the scientific student
of spiritual philosophy.”
“ * New York, May 20,1861.
“ ‘ My dear Sir,—In compliance with your request to be in¬
formed of any further experience which I might have, I beg
to say that it has continued with such interesting and varied
developments that it is impossible for me, at this time, to
enter into anything like detail. We have now arrived at that
point where cards are written, with the date prefixed. The
first of this kind, headed “ Friday, May 3rd 1861,” was most
carefully and correctly written, and the identity of my wife’s
handwriting proved conclusively by minute comparison. You
have seen the cards of an earlier date, and hence it is un¬
necessary for me to speak further of them, except to say that
the spirit, style, and handwriting are positive proofs to my
mind of the identity of the writer, if the other more convinc¬
ing proofs still, which I have had, were left entirely out of the
question.
“ ‘ A portion of one of my last was as follows :—“ We have in
preparation for you, greater manifestations, greater develop¬
ments than you have yet witnessed ; do not forbear to give
them to the world. You must benefit others by your experi¬
ence.” I was requested, soon after you left, to procure draw¬
ing paper and material for “a picture.” Three sheets of paper,
about two feet square, and three large crayons were brought
and placed upon the table in front of Miss Fox and myself.
Each sheet was privately marked by me, the room carefully
closed, and all made secure. The light being turned down, a
selection was made by the spirits of one of the sheets of paper;
the other two were handed to me with the signal that they
should be laid aside. The crayons were asked for, and handed
to the spirits by me. For, perhaps, half an hour, we heard
them as though being used in drawing. At the end of that
time, they were again handed me, and the paper com¬
menced floating about the room, occasionally touching our
heads; Cards were called for, and written upon as usual.
The two crayons were also again called for, and taken from
my hand. A light was now struck, and upon looking for the
picture, neither it nor the two large crayons could he fownd.
Upon reading the cards, they explained as follows:—“Wehave
concealed the picture and crayons in the atmosphere of the
medium.” Notwithstanding the most careful search, I could
not find either paper or pencils.
“ Two evenings afterwards .1 went to Miss Fox, and that
there should be no mistake, I at once suggested going into
July 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
83
another room upstairs. I then locked the door, carefully
examined every nook and corner, and Miss Fox’s pockets as
well, and am positive that neither the paper nor pencils were
in the room. Upon sitting down and turning out the light, a
pair of scissors was called for, and placed by me upon the
table. In about fifteen minutes a spirit-form stood by me,
tapping me lovingly upon the shoulder. The two crayons mere
dropped one by one on the table from over my head, and the
rattling of the paper indicated that it also mas in the spirit's
hand. The scissors were now taken, and rapped out a com¬
munication by my side upon the table, and commenced cutting
vigorously the thick drawing paper, replying to my questions
when asked, and going on again immediately, cutting as
before. Nearly half-an-hour was thus employed, when the
fragments were dropped upon our heads and hands, and at
last the picture was placed in my hand.
“ ‘ Upon getting a light, we discerned a very pretty sketch of
a spirit, with the veil and rose in the hair, precisely similar to
the appearance as described to you of my wife. This was
about five inches square. The remainder of the paper was
cut into grotesque shapes and forms very ingeniously done,
many small hearts, &c., &c., which I have retained to show to
any of my friends. I have since had a beautiful large picture
done in colours, representing the removal of my wife’s spirit
from the earth, supported by angels, with others above strew¬
ing flowers in their path. I shall probably write you again,
but please not to mention my name, as I am not yet ready for
publicity. Very truly yours,
J. F. Livermore.
B. Coleman, Esq., London.’
“ ‘ New York, June 24th, 1861. .
“ ‘ My dear Sir,—I beg to acknowledge receipt of your
esteemed favour of 4th instant, and shall at all times be
happy to hear from you.
“ ‘ The very short time, during which my investigations in
spiritual phenomena have been made do not, perhaps, permit
me to speak authoritatively, yet the developments have been
to me so wonderful, that I should feel recreant to my sense
of duty were I to hide them under a bushel.
“‘You are, no doubt, correct in saying that anonymous state¬
ments carry less weight than when attested by a respectable
signature. In my case, however, the credibility of the witness
can be proved, first by your own testimony, as well as again
by that of Dr. Gray, to whom I am well and intimately known.
And here permit me to say, that I regard Dr. Gray’s opinions
on spiritual science as entitled to, perhaps, greater weight than
those of almost any prominent Spiritualist in this country. He
has an eminently comprehensive and practical mind, with great
analytical power, and is not likely to be unduly influenced by
imaginative minds. He is strongly opposed to what he con¬
siders the too great prevailing confidence in spiritual identities.
Dr. Gray fully understands the practical nature of my investi¬
gation; how I have receded step by step, from a state of
thorough scepticism, and therefore he attaches importance to
facts so important, which he knows are free from exaggeration.
My earnest desire was, above all, not to be deceived myself,
and now that my faith is impregnable, I wish to keep it pure
by a strict adherence to positive truth. From the first I have
kept a record, including the states of the atmosphere, direction
of the wind, &c. My experiences and observations prove that
the electric conditions, both of the atmosphere and of the per¬
sons receiving manifestations, are, if possible, more important
and subtle than mental conditions. I find that a perfect mani¬
festation can only be received under a combination of favour¬
able conditions—mental, physical, and atmospheric. A north
wind and clear sky are both desirable, but the greatest electric
phenomena (of lights) witnessecl by me was during a snow
storm, when the atmosphere had become highly electrical by
the action of the falling particles of moisture suddenly con¬
gealed by an extraordinary 'change of temperature to intense
cold.' Our atmosphere, you are aware, is ordinarily dry, while
yours is surcharged with moisture ; and I am satisfied it would
for that reason be difficult, if not impossible, to obtain as per¬
fect manifestations in London as in New York. As Miss Fox
says, she has never received such powerful ones with any other
person it would, perhaps, be proper for me to state that my
condition has always been highly electrical. The combing of
my hair elicits electrical sparks in profusion in dry weather, *
and I find no difficulty in lighting gas, by applying the end of
my finger to the burner, after having excited the electricity in
my system by friction of my feet upon the carpet. This, how¬
ever, is not an uncommon occurrence here, although I have
repeatedly tried it ili England without success. I give you
these facts, because I think it important to, look at all the
means, by which spirits are probably enabled to produce their
wonderful phenomena without transcending the laws of
nature.
“ ‘ You ask if I believe all the manifestations are from one
spirit. Most certainly not, for it has been repeatedly
explained, and I think proved, that the spirit made itself
visible to me through the powerful aid of other spirits. The
startling noises, I believe, were made by others for the purpose
of exciting the nervous system, and throwing off from the
body, of the medium and myself the electric fluid, which is
then seized upon and made available by the will of the active
spirit. This is my theory gathered entirely from observa¬
tion.
“ ‘ On the occasion of the first appearance, I was told that
the spirit of Benjamin Franklin had aided in producing the
electrical phenomena by means of which the spirit was made
visible. From that time he has invariably announced himself.
His identity it has been impossible for me to prove, except
upon his own affirmation confirmed by that of my wife. But
her identity has been established beyond the shadow of a
doubt. First by her appearance ; second, by her handwriting ;
and third, by her mental individuality, to say nothing of the
numerous other tests, which are conclusive in ordinary cases,
but upon none of which I have relied, except as corroborative
evidence.
“ ‘ The weather has of late been so warm and unfavourable,
that no further efforts have been made at crayon drawings,
beyond perfecting the one which I named to you. It is a
representation of the departure from earth of the spirit of my
wife, borne upon the shoulders of four angels, while others
above are scattering garlands of flowers. I send you enclosed
memorandum of an evening, when drawing paper, crayons,
&c., disappeared and reappeared in face of a most scrutinising
search. The facts are beyond any question ; and the expla¬
nation given by the spirits, is as follows :—“ The paper, &c.,
were concealed in the atmosphere of the medium, dissolved in
the air, and spiritualised by being in our presence.’ The
appearance of my wife has taken place several times since you
left, and I am now promised the appearance of another person,
an account of which, should it take place as promised, I will
send you. But it is not likely to occur until the fall, as during
the very hot weather Miss Fox will be absent from the city,
as well as myself, and the manifestations are not as successful
in such a temperature. She and her mother, after consider¬
able deliberation, concluded not to undertake the journey to
England, and have given it up, at all events, for the present.
I have had many wonderful experiences since seeing you, but
nothing particularly new. It is not uncommon now for the
spirit of my wife to come in form, and spell out messages
upon my shoulder, with repeated kisses and tokens of love,
so palpable that I could not, if I would,, avoid realising her
presence. The writing continues, and has become as perfect
as her handwriting in life. I enclose a card, as requested by
you. I do not wish to part with it, and shall, therefore, feel
obliged if you will return it after keeping it as long as you
wish. It may be difficult for me to send you a specimen of
her handwriting, as most of her notes and letters contain
private matter, which I would not wish to have made public.
I will, however, before closing this, search for something,
which can be sent without violating (what I consider sacred)
her private thoughts and feelings. I send this card because
it is a test. I had been that day at Greenwood Cemetery with
my sivster and Miss E -, and while looking at some flowers
planted upon my wife’s grave my attention was called by Miss
E  to some little birds which flew across (after stoppingjan
instant) to an adjoining copse of trees. I thought no more
of the birds until they were mentioned, as you will notice, in
the card. I have also lately received several cards written in
French. My wife was an excellent French scholar, and both
wrote and spoke the language, While Miss Fox does neither.
Should I have further drawings in the autumn, I shall be very
glad to send you a specimen, but you are of course aware that
they are not done with the same care and facility as those of
Mrs. French, which seem almost like photography.’
“ 1 June 25th.—I had written thus far, not supposing I should
have any new manifestations of interest during the warm
weather, but last night the wind, having suddenly changed to
the north-west with an unusually clear, cool, and pure air, I
went to see Miss Fox, and received the most Wonderful mani¬
festation it has ever been my lot to witness. My wife ap¬
peared to us in such glittering transcendent beauty and per¬
fection, as no human mind can conceive of ; and I have been
completely overpowered and overwhelmed at the recollection
of that glimpse of heaven. Do not, I beg of you, think me a
demented enthusiast—for such I am not. Miss Fox is in
raptures at what she conceives to have been the most
stupendous and wonderful of anything she has ever dreamed
or thought of.
“ ‘ I was requested to write a series of questions upon a card,
numbering each. This I did, keeping them entirely private.
No living person but myself knew what these questions were,
and I did not take them from my pocket until the light was
turned out. Yet the blank card was returned with every
question answered perfectly, with numbers corresponding.
Benjamin Franklin purports to have answered them ; and on
another card gave me a brief account of his life and purposes,
written in his peculiar style, terse and expressive.
“ I shall from time to time write you of any further develop¬
ments. I expect them. I feel great confidence that I shall
not be disappointed, as my spiritual promises have all been
kept. I will make enquiries respecting spiritual telegraphy
soon. I have received but three back numbers of the Magazine.
You will excuse the hasty imperfect style of my communica¬
tions, as they are necessarily written without care, from my
want of time.
With kind regards, I am sincerely yours,
J. F. Livermore.’
“ The card enclosed in this letter is three inches long, and
two inches wide, containing, on one side only, the following
interesting message, written in a very neat small hand, and
exactly like the natural handwriting of which a specimen for
comparison was also sent by Mr. Livermore :—
“ ‘ Heaven'Jbless you, my' dear Charley. In all your earthly
walks I glide by your side. Dear Charley, did you not notice,
as you were standing over the grave that now holds the re¬
mains of one you knew so well, that even the little birds seemed
conscious of the event ? They seemed to fly so noiselessly,
winging their way to less sacred groves. Oh 1 how I tried to
awaken you from your musings, and transport you from the
past to the present. Oh ! dear Charley, it gives me so much
happiness to talk with you, to write to you, to manifest to you
in every way. You are in no dream, dear Charley. Let no
dream of unbelief enter your heart.
“ ‘ Anguish- may drown the swelling hymn, may check the
voice of love, but faith shall burn more brightly.
“ | But, now, dear Charley, I must go. The harps of heaven
have already sounded. The invisible choirs have commenced
the song “ Hallelujah ” to our Father and our King. There is
rejoicing in our angelic hosts, rejoicing in the happy choir,
for a new seraph has joined our glittering files. Good night.
•Estelle.’
After locking the doors and taking the key, I locked the
drawers of the bureau, and examined every corner and
crevice, as well as the medium’s pocket, and having satisfied
myself that neither the picture nor the crayons were in the
room, I tied the medium’s hands, took them in mine, and put
out the light. At the end of half-an-hour, the rustling of
spirit-robes was heard. I turned my head in the direction
of the sound, when a hand was placed upon each side of my
head, turning it back to its former position. The rustling
indicated an approach to the table, at my left (the medium
being on my right), and gentle raps, as though made by the
knuckle, were made, the box of crayons was shaken, and its
contents turned upon the table. The paper was now heard
as though in a roll; it was unrolled, and placed against my
face. Holding the medium with one hand, with the other
I took the paper, and laid it upon the table, while raps upon
my shofilder spelled out as follows :—“ -Be careful mith the
picture, 1 mish you to have it copied.” The spirit was now
distinctly heard to walk to the other side of the table, to open
and shut the drawer after apparently making an examination
of its contents, and repeating the operation. For nearly
an hour, the spirit was in form by my side, during
which I was kissed audibly, probably twenty times.
During this time, at intervals, startling manifestations were
taking place. The heavy sofa was lifted up and down ; the
marble-topped bureau was pounded violently upon by a
daguerreotype case, by chance lying there, and a bunch of
keys was shaken about our ears. An effort was made to speak,
which was so far successful as to call me by name, audibly,
several times; but the medium, at this, became so nervous
that it could not be continued. A card was written upon, in
explanation of the former one, as follows :—“ The new seraph, ■
darling, was one not known to you. Daily and hourly we are
called upon to minister to the sick and dying. It'is our duty.
—Estelle.” Upon getting a light, the picture was found
completed, and the identical one which had disappeared. I
had put a private mark upon each, and from the extraordinary
examinations and care which I took I am positive that the
disappearance and reappearance have been entirely without.
human agency.’
“ ‘ Monday, June 2ith, 1861.—Locked the doors, placed the
key in my pocket, and made 'everything secure. Sat in quiet,
and was told not to ask questions. Then by raps, ‘ There will
be no failure to-night—I will come to you first.—Estelle.”
Soon a bright light followed a rustling sound, and appeared
near our shoulders, between us. The medium became nervous,
when I requested it to come to my left. This was immediately
replied to, by three raps upon my left shoulder, and a corre¬
sponding movement of the light to that side. Hands were
placed upon either shoulder, turning me a little to the right,
then upon my head, pushing it down till my forehead was
near the table. Three taps upon my head indicated that the
position was satisfactory, and I remained passive. The inten¬
tion was, evidently, to prevent my too earnest gaze. Vigorous
rustling was heard, and the light, now very vivid, rose to a
height of about three feet above the table (at the side). It
was so bright as to illuminate surrounding objects, and as it
approached, there seemed a heavy dark substance before it.
Reaching a point, about two feet from my eyes, the dark
shadow was lowered, revealing beauty, such as God only, in
his infinite goodness and power, could permit those in the
flesh to behold. A glimpse of heaven it was, and of an angel,
as bright as ever stood before His throne: —the spirit of my
wife, a white rose in her hair over the left temple, and her
loving eyes smiling inexpressible blessings. She appeared in
this manner six or seven times. The perfection of the ap¬
pearance was such that every feature, lineament, and expres¬
sion was as complete as a full blaze of light upon a face could
make it. A roll or veil surrounded her head, leaving a clear
space of about a foot or eighteen inches between it and the
hair, and this veil glittered like silver gauze. The whole scene
was transcendently beautiful, beyond the power of description.
About fifteen minutes afterwards, the light appeared Tn a
comer, illuminating the centre of the room, and a female
figure in full proportions stood before us, back towards us,
with a veil depending from the head to the feet, of silver
gauze, which glittered and shone almost like diamonds when
the light struck upon it. I asked if she would raise her arm
above her head, and my request was immediately complied
with. No pen can describe the exquisite beauty of what was
revealed this night to us. If heaven is half as bright or
beautiful, death should have no terrors. This appearance was
very much more vivid than any previous manifestation, and
each one seems more nearly perfect.’”
* A similar statement is made by the Rev. 0. H, Townshend, in his Facts
in Mesmerism; the passage appears to ns so interesting and suggestive in
this connection that we here describe it.—[Ed.]
He says:—“ I am of an electric temperament, so much so that long ago,
when a child, I used to amaze and even alarm my young companions by
combing my hair before them in the dark, and exhibiting to them the
electric coruscations. Of course, also this phenomenon takes place most
remarkably in a dry, and, therefore, non-conducting atmosphere. Now
between this electrical endowment and whatever mesmeric properties I
may possess, there is a perfect relationship and parallelism. Whatever
state of the atmosphere tends to carry off electricity from the body hinders
in so far my capacity of mesmerising, and whatever state of the atmos¬
phere tends to accumulate and insulate electricity in the body, promotes
greatly the power and facility kwith which I influence others mesmeri-
cally.”
“ ‘ June 12>th, 1861.—The object of this meeting was to finish
a picture, previously commenced upon a sheet of drawing
paper, about two feet square. This was unrolled and spread
upon the table, placing a book upon one corner, and a box,
containing twenty-four coloured crayons, upon the other. The
door of the room had been locked, and the key placed in my
pocket, and both of the medium’s hands were held in mine.
Soon, the box of crayons was rubbed against my hands, various
loud raps, &c., were made upon the table, during which the
paper was noiselessly taken from its position. Cards were
called for, and a written explanation returned as follows :—
“ My darling, I have taken the picture to perfect it, you shall
have it to-morrow, finished.” Upon’turning up the gas, the
paper and box of crayons had both disappeared. I made a
most careful examination of the room, no police detective
could have done it more thoroughly, and I am as positive
as I can be of anything that neither of the articles were in
the room. The medium did not leave the table; both her
hands were held by me, and there was no person but ourselves
in the house.
“ * Friday, June lith, 1861.—On this occasion, I determined
to make thorough work of my examination of the room, &c.
MESSRS. CROOKES &YARLEY ON SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., has published an article in the
Quarterly Journal of Science, entitled “ Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modern Science.’’ That article is hereunto
appended, together with some correspondence with Mr. C. F.
Varley, C.E., tb which it has given rise. Mr. Crookes is the
editor of the Chemical Nems; he is recognised as one of the -
most accurate observers possessed by the Royal Society, and
it was he who discovered the new metal “ thallium ” by the
aid of spectrum analysis. There are two leading features in
his article on Spiritualism; in the first place he acknowledges
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism to be true, and adds
that he does not at present know their origin ; in the second
place he sermonises upon the fact that all Spiritualists are not
scientific people. With reference to the latter circumstance,
it is doubtful whether the transformation of Spiritualists into
intellectual razors—into perfect mathematicians and into
unerring observers—would be advantageous to the religious
aspect of the movement, supposing we also acquired the
faults which too often accompany such really valuable acquire¬
ments, namely—a hard grinding disposition, supported by
intellectual pride, and accompanied by the loss of the taste
for flowers, poetry, and the cultivation of the affections.
Because Spiritualists are, for the most part, unacquainted
with the general tone of those private clubs, the learned
societies of London, the article written by Mr. Crookes is
bringing him rather more unpopularity than he deserves. But
remembering the moral forces by which he is surrounded, it
will be seen that it requires some boldness for an accurate
observer of established' reputation, to risk that reputation by
publicly stating that raps and motions of solid objects do
actually occur under certain conditions, and that the said
phenomena appear to be inexplicable by any laws at present
known to modem science. As Mr. Crookes risks a present
high reputation by what he has done, we are not disposed to
criticise in an unkind tone his decision not at present to grasp
a still higher historical reputation, by telling more of the facts
which all observers must know, namely, that the said raps and
motions spell intelligent messages, as demonstrated by obser¬
vation, entirely apart from any theory or hypothesis.
84
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1870.
Mr. Crookes - says that some Spiritualists ascribe the tardi¬
ness of scientific men to inquire into Spiritualism to “ un¬
worthy motives.” So far as we are concerned, we utterly re¬
pudiate any such imputation, and do hereby declare that we
have not as yet thought it worth while to give the time
necessary to accurately analyse the causes of their disinclina¬
tion to see certain classes of phenomena open to their
observation. Is it from a species of scientific fetishism?
Sir John Lubbock, who is a good scientific man—too good to
remain long outside the ranks of Spiritualism—narrates how
certain African savages are horribly afraid of seeing their
mothers-in-law (so are some civilised men for the matter of
that), and each brave crouches down behind his shield in
terror, when the dreaded woman passes. They are not simi¬
larly afraid of other women. Is it a similar feeling which
permits scientific men to observe such unreliable and erratic
phenomena as star-showers, but prevents them from observing
the erratic physical phenomena of Spiritualism ? However,
that is their business, and not ours. Perhaps the expression
“scientific men,” just used, is not accurate, and the words
should be “ scientific societies,” for many good scientific men
are there in our ranks, so situated that they cannot speak out,
not that they are cravens, but they have to consider their
wives and families.
Here is the article written by Mr. Crookes :—
“ Some weeks ago the fact that I was engaged in investigating
Spiritualism, so called, was announced in a contemporary;*
and in consequence of the many communications I have since
received, I think it desirable to say a little concerning the
investigation which I have commenced. Views or opinions I
cannot be said to possess on a subject which I do not pretend
to understand. I consider it the duty of scientific men who
have learnt exact modes Of working, to examine phenomena
which attract the attention of the public, in order to confirm
their genuineness, or to explain, if possible, the delusions of the
honest and to expose the tricks of deceivers. But I think it
a pity that any public announcement of a man’s investigation
should be made until he has shown himself willing to speak
out.
“ A man may be a true scientific man, and yet agree with
Professor He Morgan, when he says—‘ I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which would make unbelief impossible,
things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by a rational
being to be capable of explanation by imposture, coincidence,
or mistake. So far I feel the ground firm under me; but
when it comes to what is the cause of these phenomena, I find
I cannot adopt any explanation which has yet been suggested.
. . . The physical explanations which I have seen are easy,
but miserably insufficient. The spiritual hypothesis is suffi¬
cient, but ponderously difficult.’
“ Regarding the sufficiency of the explanation, I am not able
to speak. That certain physical phenomena, such as the move¬
ment of material substances, and the production of sounds
resembling electric discharges, occur under circumstances in
which they cannot be explained by any physical law at pre¬
sent known, is a fact of which I am as certain as I am of the
most elementary fact in chemistry. My whole scientific edu¬
cation has been one long lesson in exactness of observation,
and I wish it to be distinctly understood that this firm convic¬
tion is the result of most careful investigation. But I cannot
at present hazard even the most vague hypothesis as to the
cause of, the phenomena. Hitherto I have seen nothing to
convince me of the truth of the ‘ spiritual ’ theory. In such
an enquiry the intellect demands that the spiritual proof must
be absolutely incapable of being explained away ; it must be
so strikingly and convincingly true that we cannot, dare not,
deny it.
“ Faraday says, ‘ Before we proceed to consider any question
involving physical principles, we should set out with clear
ideas of the naturally possible and impossible.’ But this
appears like reasoning in a circle : we are to investigate
nothing till we know it to be possible, whilst we cannot say
what is impossible, outside pure mathematics, till we know
everything.
“ In the present case I prefer to enter upon the enquiry with
no preconceived notions whatever as to what can or cannot be,
but with all my senses alert and ready to convey infor¬
mation to the brain ; believing, as I do, that we have by no
means exhausted all human knowledge or fathomed the depths
of all the physical forces, and remembering that the great
philosopher already quoted said, in reference to some specula¬
tions on the gravitating force, ‘ Nothing is too wonderful to be
true, if it be consistent with the laws of nature ; and in such
things as these, experiment is the best test of such consis¬
tency.”
“ The modes of reasoning of scientific men appear to be gen¬
erally misunderstood by Spiritualists with whom I have con¬
versed, and the reluctance of the trained scientific mind to
investigate this subject is frequently ascribed to unworthy
motives.
“ I think, therefore, it will be of service if I illustrate the
modes of thought current amongst those who investigate
science, and say what kind of experimental proof science has
a right to demand before admitting a new department of
knowledge into her ranks. We must not mix up the exact
and the inexact. The supremacy of accuracy must be
absolute.
“ The first requisite is to be sure of facts ; then to ascertain
conditions ; next laws. Accuracy and knowledge of detail
stand foremost amongst the great aims of modern scientific
men. No observations are of much use to the student of
science unless they are truthful and made under test condi¬
tions; and here I find the great mass of Spiritualistic evidence
to fail. In a subject which, perhaps, more than any other
lends itself to trickery and deception, the precautions against
fraud appear to have been, in most cases, totally insufficient,
owing, it would seem, to an erroneous idea that to ask for such
safeguards was to imply a suspicion of the honesty of some
one present. We may use our own unaided senses, but when
we ask for instrumental means to increase their sharpness,
certainty, and trustworthiness under circumstances of excite¬
ment and difficulty, and when one’s natural senses are liable
to be thrown off their balance, offence is taken.
“ In the countless number of recorded observations I have
read, there appear to be few instances of meetings held for
the express purpose of getting the phenomena under test con¬
ditions, in the presence of persons properly qualified by scien¬
tific training to weigh and adjust the value of the evidence
which might present itself. The only good, series of test
experiments I have met with were tried by the Count de Gas-
parin, and he, whilst admitting the genuineness of the phe¬
nomena, came to the conclusion that they were not due to
supernatural agency.
“ The pseudo-scientific Spiritualist professes to know every¬
thing : no calculations trouble his serenity, no hard experi¬
* The Athenosum.
ments, no long laborious readings, no weary attempts to make
clear in words that which has rejoiced the heart and elevated
the mind. He talks glibly of all sciences and arts, over¬
whelming the enquirer with terms like ‘ electro-biologize,’
‘ psychologize,’ ‘ animal magnetism,’ &c.—a mere play upon
words, shoeing ignorance rather than understanding. Popu¬
lar science such as this is little able to guide discovery rush¬
ing onward to an unknown future ; and the real workers of
science must be extremely careful not to allow the reins to get
into unfit and incompetent hands.
' “In investigations which so completely baffle the ordinary
observer, the thorough scientific man has a great advantage.
He has followed science from the beginning through a long
line of learning, and he knows, therefore, in what direction it
is leading; he knows that there are dangers on one side,
uncertainties on another, and almost absolute certainty on a
third : he sees to a certain extent in advance. But, where
every step is towards the marvellous and unexpected, precau¬
tions and tests should be multiplied rather than diminished.
Investigators must work ; although their work may be very
small in quantity if only compensation be made by its intrin¬
sic excellence. But, even in this realm of marvels,—this
wonder-land towards which scientific inquiry is. sending out
its pioneers,—can anything be more astonishing than the
delicacy of the instrumental aids which the workers bring
with them to supplement the observations of their natural
senses?
“ The Spiritualist tells of bodies weighing 50 or 100 lbs. being
lifted up into the air without the intervention of any known
force ; but the scientific chemist is accustomed to use a balance
which will render sensible a weight so small that it would
take ten thousand of them to weigh one grain ; he is there¬
fore justified in asking that a power, professing to be guided
by intelligence, which will toss a heavy body up to the ceiling,
shall also cause his delicately poised balance to move under
test conditions. .
“ The Spiritualist tells of tapping sounds which are produced
in difEerent parts of a room when two or more persons sit
quietly round a table. The scientific experimenter is entitled
to ask that these taps shall be produced on the stretched mem¬
brane of his phonautograph.
“ The Spiritualist tells of rooms and houses being shaken,
even to injury, by superhuman power; the man of science
merely asks for a pendulum to be set vibrating when it is in a
glass case and supported on solid masonry.
“The Spiritualist tells of heavy articles of furniture moving
from one room to another without human agency. But the
man of science has made instruments which will divide an
inch into a million parts ; and he is justified in doubting the
accuracy of the former observations, if the same force is
powerless to move the index of his instrument one poor
degree.
“ The Spiritualist tells of flowers with the fresh dew on them,
of fruit, and living objects being carried through closed win¬
dows, and even solid brick-walls. The scientific investigator
naturally asks that an additional weight (if it be only the
1000th part of a grain) be deposited on one pan of his balance
when the case is locked. And the chemist asks for the 1000th
of a grain of arsenic to be carried through the sides of a glass
tube in which pure water is hermetically sealed.
“ The Spiritualist tells of manifestations of power, which
would be equivalent to many thousands of ‘foot-pounds,’
taking place without known agency. The man of science,
believing firmly in the conservation of force, and that it is
never produced without a corresponding exhaustion of some¬
thing to replace it, asks for some such exhibitions of power to
be manifested in his laboratory, where he can weigh, measure,
and submit it to proper tests.*
“ For these reasons, and with these feelings, I began an
enquiry suggested to me by eminent men exercising great
influence on the thought of the country. At first, like other
men who thought little of the matter, and saw little, I believed
that the whole affair was a superstition, or at least an unex¬
plained trick. Even at this moment, I meet with cases which
I cannot prove to be anything else; and in some cases I am
sure that it is a delusion of the senses.
“ I by no means promise to enter fully into this subject; it
seems very difficult to obtain opportunities, and numerous
failures certainly may dishearten anyone. The persons in
whose presence these phenomena take place are few in number,
and opportunities for experimenting with previously arranged
apparatus are rarer still. I should feel it to be a great satis¬
faction if I could bring out light in any direction, and I may
safely say that I care not in what direction. With this end
in view, I appeal to any of my readers who may possess a key
to these strange phenomena, to further the progress of truth,
by assisting me in my investigations. That the subject has to
do with strange physiological conditions is clear, and these in
a sense may be called ‘ spiritual ’ when they produce certain
results in our minds. At present the phenomena I have
observed baffle explanation ; so the phenomena of thought,
which are also spiritual, and which no philosopher has yet
understood. No man, however, denies them.
“ The explanations given to me, both orally, and in most of
the books that I have read, are shrouded in such an affected
ponderosity of style, such an attempt at disguising poverty of
ideas in grandiloquent language, that I feel it impossible,
after driving off the frothy diluent, to discern a crystalline
residue of meaning. I confess that the reasoning of some
Spiritualists would almost seem to justify Faraday’s severe
statement—that many dogs have the power of coming to
much more logical conclusions. Their speculations utterly
ignore all theories of force being only a form of molecular
motion, and they speak of Force, M after, and Spirit, as three
distinct entities, each capable of existing without the others ;
although they sometimes admit that they are mutually con¬
vertible.
“ These Spiritualists are certainly not much in advance of an
alchemical writer, who says—
/ “ ‘ I asked Philosophy how I should
Have of her the thing I would.
She answered me when I was able
To make the water malliable,
Or else the way if I could finde,
To mesure out a yard of winds';
Then shalt thou have thine own desire.
When thou canst weigh an ounce of Fire;
Unless that thou canst do these three,
Content thyselfe, thou get’st not me.’
“It has been my wish to show that science is gradually
making its followers the representatives of care and accuracy.
It is a fine quality that of uttering undeniable truth. Let,
* In justice to my subject, I must state that, on repeating these views to
some of the leading “ Spiritualists ” and most trustworthy “mediums ” in
England, they express perfect confidence in the success of the enquiry, if
honestly carried out in the spirit here exemplified; and they have offered
to assist me to the utmost of their ability, by placing their peculiar powers
ht my disposal. As far as I have proceeded, I may as well add that the
preliminary tests have been.satisfactory.—W.C.
then, that position not be lowered, but let words suit facts
with an accuracy equal to that with which the facts themselves
can be ascertained ; and in a subject encrusted with credulity
and superstition, let it be shown that there is a class of facts
to be found upon which reliance can be placed, so far, that
we may be certain they will never change. In common affairs
a mistake may have but a short life, but in the study of
nature an imperfect observation may cause infinite trouble to
thousands. The increased employment of scientific methods
will promote exact observation and greater love of truth
among enquirers, and will produce a race of observers who will
drive the worthless residuum of Spiritualism hence into the
unknown limbo of magic and necromancy.
“ If Spiritualists would but attend to the teachings of their
own prophets, they would no longer have to complain of the
hostile attitude of Science ; for hear what Thomas L. Harris
urges,* in his ‘ Lyric of a Golden Age !’
“ ‘ The nearer to the practical men keep—
The less they deal in vague and abstract things,
The less they deal in huge mysterious words—
The mightier is their power.
********
The simplest peasant who observes a truth,
And from a fact deduces principle,
Adds solid treasure to the public wealth.
The theorist, who dreams a rainbow dream,
And calls hypothesis philosophy,
At best is but a paper financier,
Who palms his specious promises for gold.
Facts are the basis of philosophy;
Philosophy the harmony of facts
Seen in their right relation.’ ”
Me. C. F.Yaeley, C.E., has forwarded us the two following
letters for publication ; the second of these letters is one which
he sent last Saturday to Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., and it
was called forth by the foregoing article by Mr. Crookes on
Spiritualism:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
“ Sir,—Mr. Crookes has sen£ me an article of his upon
Spiritualism. I have penned a note to him, a copy of which
I send you, with liberty to publish, if you think it worth a
place in your columns.
“ If you happen to know of any intelligent persons who, after
a careful examination of spiritual phenomena, have failed to
be convinced of the fact that these phenomena are connected
in some way with departed spirits, I should be much obliged
if you would give me their names and addresses, that I may
ascertain why they have arrived at their conclusions.!
“ I do not know a single instance. But Tdo know of numbers
who, though thoroughly convinced, have not courage to speak
out, and thereby incur the ridicule of those hosts who blindly
follow popular prejudice. C. F. Varley.
“ Fleetwood House, Beckenham, Kent.”
“ William Crookes, Esq. July 11, 1870.
“ My Dear Sir,—I am much obliged to you for your article
Spiritualism Viewed by the Light of Modern Science, in which
you appeal to those of your “ readers who may possess the key
to these strange phenomena ” to assist you. I see that on
page 317 you admit freely and fully the physical phenomena
of Spiritualism.
“It is now more thantwelve years since I firstbecame acquainted
with Spiritual phenomena, and for a long time I endeavoured
to ascertain something definite about the laws governing the
production of the physical manifestations, but up to this time
my evidence is almost entirely negative. In the absence of
positive evidence, negative is useful, in limiting the ground
over which one has to search, in a measure, in the dark.
“ I have scarcely ever been able to induce mediums, through
whom the physical phenomena occur, to consent to sit for
accurate investigation. In 1867, Miss Kate Fox, the well-
known American medium, agreed to sit with me in New York
during a series of investigations into the relations between
the known physical forces and the spiritual. Miss Fox, you
are doubtless aware, is the medium through whom the modem
spiritual manifestations were first produced in the United
States, and through her mediumship the most striking phy¬
sical phenomena I have ever heard of, were witnessed by my
friends Dr. Gray, a leading physician in New York, and by
Mr. C. F. Livermore, the banker, both of them shrewd, clear¬
headed men.
“ During my investigations, Mr. Livermorqand Mr. and Mrs.
Townsend sat with us ; Mr. Townsend is a New York
solicitor, at whose house the meetings of the circle were held.
A Grove’s battery of four cells, a helix eighteen inches in
diameter, electro-magnets, and other descriptions of apparatus
were procured by me. The plan of action was as follows :—I was to
go through a series of experiments, and the intelligences or
‘ spirits ’—as they are usually, and I think properly called—
were to narrate what they saw, and if possible to explain the
analogies existing between the forces I was dealing with, and
those which they employ. We sat eight or nine times for
this purpose, but although great efforts seemed to be made by
the spirits present to convey to my mind what they saw, it
was unintelligible to. me. The only positive results obtained
were the following;—As we sat in the dark,and the mani¬
festations were sometimes violent, I had taken the pre-
* Mr. Crookes omits to state that these lines are spirit-poetry, given
through a temporarily unconscious trance medium. We do not “ complain
of the hostile attitude of science.” If the majority of scientific men choose
to deny that certain natural phenomena take place, that is their business
and not ours. Mr. Crookes over-estimates the importance of scientific men;
they have no power to stop the spreading of accurate knowledge of this
subject among the public, and as such knowledge is diffused, respect for
some of the “ scientific men ” who have written letters on Spiritualism with¬
out investigating it, falls to the lowest ebb. When one or other of them
“speaks with authority,” after little or no investigation, be it remembered
that his right to take this tone has. never been admitted. Courtesy and
aid is given to those who sufficiently love truth to ask for facilities to see the
phenomena, but this is done to oblige them, and not because they are recog¬
nised as the great authorities which they often assume themselves to be.
Scientific men may take what “attitudes” they like, and Spiritualists will
look on with much amusement at their posture making. The facts of
Spiritualism are plenty strong enough to make them in a year or two leave
off “^attitudinising,” and look out pretty briskly after their own reputations,
in place "of gymnastic performances. These remarks do not apply to the
few philosophers in the scientific world who thoroughly investigateja tem¬
porarily unpopular subject first, and express opinions about it afterwards.
Should any scientific societies write and ask for facilities for the investiga¬
tion of Spiritualism, very likely our leading men will take the subject into
favourable consideration, and perhaps grant the boon, though doing so_would
involve much inconvenience and trouble. With all its faults, the scientific
world is more free from bigotry and intolerance than many other sections
of society, and we do not think it will be very long before it undertakes a
serious and fair investigation of Spiritualism, such as some of its leading
members are now making privately.—Ed.
t All the philosophically educated people known to us, who have inves¬
tigated Spiritualism, have become believers without an exception, and in
the list are included some members of the Institution of Civil Engineers,
of the Royal and other learned societies, and editors of standard scientific
journals. Many such investigators are so situated that they say they can¬
not, for the sake of their wives and families, risk their professional reputa¬
tion by speaking out as they wish to do.—Ed.
(Continued on Page 86.)
July 15, 1870,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
85
CHARGES FOB ADVEBTISEMENTS.
1. Adveriistments of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per sixth, of a
tolumn, or every portion of sixth of a column,
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a column, or
portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates willbe" displayed" so as
to occupy the full space paid for, but advertisements at the following rates
will be in closely set type:—
8. General Advertisements, B.alf-a-crown per first five lines or portion of
five lines, and Fomrpence for every line in addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling per first four
lines, or portion of four lines ; Threepence for every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or initial letters count
as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement are paid for,
twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertisement.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the Publisher, Mr.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lame, St. Paul's Church-yard, London, E.C.
Curaspttfrettfg.
All leters should be brief and to the point, as the amount of space avail¬
able for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by letter only, ad¬
dressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St
Paul's Church-yard, London, E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in Eng¬
land, together with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with the literary
work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will meet with careful considera¬
tion.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great freedom of ex¬
pression to all the different shades of opinion to be found among Spiri¬
tualists. There will therefore be very little uniformity in the ideas pro¬
mulgated in this journal, more especially in the correspondence columns.
Under these circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the right of reply
remains. This freedom of thought given to others, the Editor claims for
himself, and those who do not like the contents of leading articles cam write
against them in the correspondence columns. This plam is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a pale weak mediocrity,
by inserting only those contributions which please everybody. The preceding
remarks are not intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them here, for none
but those letters which are considered worth publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism should be
sent to the office several days in advance.
Co Sttfrsmlxers.
The first eighteen numbers of The Spiritualist will be forwarded regu¬
larly by penny post to subscribers, who remit six shillings in payment to Mr.
E. W. Allen, Publisher, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paid's-churchyard, E.G.
No notice will be taken of orders received unaccompanied by a remittamce.
When the day of issue- chances to fall upon a Sunday, this journal will
be published on the preceding Saturday.
FRIDAY, JULY 15, 1870.
SPIKITTXAIiISM AND INSANITY.
A little paragraph, will be found in another column,
setting forth how a young man in Melbourne com¬
mitted suicide in consequence of his brain haying been
turned by reading books on Spiritualism. The para¬
graph is taken from a country newspaper, but there
seems to be no good reason why the statements therein
should not be received as authentic. As people often
lose their balance of mind by giving too much attention
to particular religious and secular subjects, why should
they not be liable to do the same by giving too much
attention to Spiritualism? To be candid, excessive
thought about Spiritualism is rather more calculated to
turn the brain than too much thought upon any other
religious subject, because its phenomena are so un¬
accountable and strange, that few can witness powerful
manifestations for the first time, without feeling a great
strain both upon their nerves and thoughts, though
this feeling soon dies away as the novelty of the cir¬
cumstances wears off. When people of other denomi¬
nations lose their senses, the public seldom connect the
calamity with their religious convictions, but it is other¬
wise with the Spiritualist. If a Spiritualist eat too much
fruit and feel unwell, his illness is at once attributed
to his Spiritualism ; likewise, if by pressure of worldly
cares he become insane. Spiritualism is called in to
account for the circumstance. It is an established law
of nature, that whatever bodily organ is used most, is
most liable to be the first to decay, hence literary, scien¬
tific, and professional men, have a greater tendency than
most people—other conditions being the same—to the
early decay of the mental faculties. One advantage
gained by the inattention of Faraday to Spiritualism, is
that the decay of his mental faculties before his death is
now attributed to its true cause, which most assuredly
would not have been the case had he investigated
Spiritualism, and, as the inevitable result of such in¬
vestigation, recognised its truth.
When cool-headed people investigate Spiritualism^
and do not follow it up too rapidly at first, or think too
much about its phenomena, but relieve the mind by at¬
tention to other subjects, they are not mentally incon¬
venienced by the enquiry. But suppose the case of an
irrational mediumistie individual, thrown suddenly into
daily and nightly contact with the most striking mani¬
festations, and placed suddenly in close communication
with friends recently deceased : all these exciting things,
coupled with the shaking of many deeply-rooted theo¬
logical errors, must tend to throw the mind off its
balance. Although this is an extreme case, such
examples may be found, and the object of this article is
to urge all readers thereof, for the sake of the noble
cause they love, to persuade novices, who are exciting
their minds about Spiritualism, not to sit too often at
seances, or to read and think too much at first about the
subject. Many of the perplexities and difficulties which
beset new circles, in the shape of the unreliable cha¬
racter of the communications, may be avoided by taking
the most scrupulous care who is permitted to be pre¬
sent ; when all the members are persons of pure and
upright lives, this source of disturbance of mind will be
eliminated.
The services at the Cavendish Rooms have been carried on
since the departure of Mr. Peebles, by Messrs. H. D. Jencken,
C. W. Pearce, A. C. Swinton, J. Bums, and the Rev. P. R.
Young.
No general meeting of London Spiritualists has been
called during the past winter, to consider the present position
of the Spiritual movement in this country, and what organized
steps, if any, should be taken in the future. We have often
heard opinions expressed that a conference of this kind should
be held.
Field-Spobts.—Several newspapers are now giving space
to correspondence on “ The Morality of Field-Sports.” Spiri¬
tualists should set their faces against field sports, which in
time will be included in the same category of amusements
as cock-fighting and bull-baiting. There is great cruelty in
hunting, and the fact that the sufferings of animals are now
made a source of pleasure, shows that one of the links
binding our natures to those of our savage ancestors has not
yet been broken by the development of the race.
Mr. Disbaeli on “A Futube State.”—In his new
novel, Mr. Disraeli makes “Lothair,” the hero, indulge in
the following soliloquy :—“ Life would be perfect, if it would
only last, but it will not last; and what then ? He
could not reconcile interest in this life, with the convic¬
tion of another and an eternal one. It seemed to him
that, with such a conviction, man could only have one
thought and one occupation—the future, and preparation for
it. With such a conviction, what they called reality,
appeared to him more vain and nebulous than the
scenes and sights of sleep. And he had that conviction ;
at least he had it once. Had he it now? Yes ; he
had it now, but modified perhaps, in detail. He was
not so confident as he was a few months ago that he
could be ushered by a Jesuit from his deathbed to the society
of St. Michael and all the Angels. There might be long
processes of initiation — intermediate states of higher
probation and refinement. There might be a horrible and
apathetic pause.' When millions of ages appeared to be neces¬
sary to mature the crust of a rather insignificant planet, it
might be presumption in man to assume that his soul, though
immortal, was to reach its final destination, regardless of all the
influences of space and time. And the philosophers and dis¬
tinguished men of science, with whom of late he had frequently
enjoyed the opportunity of becoming acquainted, what were
their views ? They differed among themselves : did any of
them agree with him ? How they accounted for everything
except the only point on which man requires revelation!
Chance, necessity, atomic theories, nebular hypotheses, de¬
velopment, evolution, the origin of the worlds, human ancestry
—here were high topics on none of which was there lack of
argument; and, in a certain sense, of evidence; and what
then ?”
How to Spbead Spibitualism.—A few months ago a
meeting of the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists at
Clerkenwell, considered the subject of the best method of
spreading Spiritualism. The formation of local societies was
suggested, also that a book should be kept at all houses where
spirit circles are held, in which book enquirers who visit the
circle should be requested to enter their names and addresses,
so that they may be found at any future time, and aided in
their researches. Another suggestion was, that when a so¬
ciety is formed for spiritual investigation, the secretary or
manager should be always at his post on the evenings of the
meetings, to receive visitors ; nothing kills young and weak
movements so much as want of punctuality and energy on the
part of the chief working official, who should always be at his
post. It may be disheartening to him at first, to find that he
often has an attendance of but one Or two persons, but when
the members know that at a given time and place they can
always depend upon finding a medium and an active manager
of their society at their posts, it gives confidence, and they
gradually begin to bring visitors to the stances. We have
often seen this in connection with young movements. The St.
John’s Association of Spiritualists, which is now a strong and
active body, owes its present existence to the punctuality and.
perseverance of Mr. Steele, exerted in the manner just men¬
tioned, at a time when the association was weak. All spiritual
circles which meet regularly, should keep a book, in which a
summary describing the manifestations obtained should be
entered at the close of each evening, and the record should be
signed with the names and addresses of all the witnesses.
The progress and the time of development of each medium
belonging to the circle, should also be entered in the same
book. In future years, when spiritual phenomena will be
undergoing searching scientific investigation, such records of
facts witnessed will be of enormous value, since, they will
help to furnish data on which to establish laws and principles.
As to the formation of new societies, the movement is young
as yet, and no locality should attempt to start movements
beyond its strength to carry on steadily. There are in the
suburbs of London several booksellers and stationers, who
find by the demand for the spiritual periodicals, that an in¬
terest in the subject is springing up in their several neighbour-
hoods. Each of these booksellers would do well to bring the
scattered Spiritualists in his neighbourhood together, and to
make his own shop a house of call for them; in time he
might find it remunerative to let rooms or to himself start
public siances in his own house, and thus, without useless and
injudicious expense resulting in failure, the movement would
grow slowly, but strongly and safely.
(Eoxuspoxibrntt.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers}.
AMEBICAN SEIBITUALISTS.
Sib,—Mr. Peebles has in your last issue given me the “ un¬
truth it is needful therefore I reply. I excuse him some¬
what, because he is imaginative, and imaginative minds sky
their pictures—they have more of cloud-land than of earth-
land. I am so earthly as to require /acts for the grasp, not
bits of cloud.
It has been asserted by American platform orators that the
Spiritualists number “eleven millions ”—a bit of cloud I could
not grasp, and therefore threw out the question—“ If there are
several millions, where are they? What are they doing?”
The answer by Mr. Peebles is, “ Certainly America contains
several millions of Spiritualists, and t&et/ refuse to support
the orthodox churches with their cramping creeds and
dogmas, &c.” This assertion clears the ground—it 'excludes
the tens of thousands of Protestant and Roman Catholic
members and hearers who do support the orthodox churches.
Let us test this reckless assertion.
The population of the United States in 1869 is estimated at 34,500,000
Of thiat number, those under age number about .'    20,5o6,66o
Leaving the adult population     14,000,000
Out of these we have to take the 11,000,000 Spiritualists.
Let us generously knock off 4,000,000, and allow the “cer¬
tainly several millions,” to mean say 7,000,000 out of the
14,000,000. In other words—every alternate man and woman
in the United States is a Spiritualist “ who refuses to support
the orthodox churches, &c.” A statement utterly untrue. So
much for the rampant arithmetical exaggerations of those
platform men and women, who are ever calling on us to
believe in them, and their supernal vagaries. Again—
Mr. Peebles asserts that these “ certainly several millions
are busy erecting and leasing commodious churches and halls.”
My readings since 1855, and conversations with Spiritualists
and anti-Spiritualists from America, are point-blank the
opposite. One leading platform speaker told me, that hall
after hall in past years has been opened and shut up for want
of support. That chapels and halls are erecting in the United
States by Spiritualists at anything like the rate the “ cramped
creedists ” are, I at once deny, and call for the proof.
I now pass on to the literature. I stated, “ It may be said,
that the American serial literature consists of only one weekly
journal, with a weakly circulation.” That is true. “ It may be
said,” implies that “there may be others,” but so impotent
that they need not be named. I had in my mind The Banner
of Light, named by Mr. Peebles, once called The Spiritual
Telegraph. Well, let it have a circulation of say 15,000
weekly; what is that but a weakly circulation among “ cer¬
tainly several millions of Spiritualists,” compared with up¬
wards of 100,000 weekly in London by the Trinitarians alone ?
And as to monthly magazines, I know not of one in America
issued as a Spiritual magazine ; while in London alone, the
same “ cramped creedists ” have several, and sell at least
170,000 ; and as the population of America is about the same
as Great Britain, I presume the issue of magazines is about
the same in that country.
Mr. Peebles gives a list of some seven notables, who he
states are judges, and senators, and unorthodox Spiritualists^
of knowledge and power ; but what are they as to numbers,
compared with the 68 Senators and 243 Representatives—
with the glorious array of “ cramped creedists ”—whose intel¬
lectuality, knowledge, and spirituality, stand high amongst the
people, and whose names I could give by the score.
If the natural facts we can test, are so distorted by Mr.
Peebles and others in and from America; how incredulous
ought we to be, as to the verity of their “ supermundane,
supernal, divine revelations,” we cannot test, from Phytha-
gorus or Gimcrackodus, or other notables of “ the Ages ” long
since past.
Let us give the supernal “ notions ” of our itinerant platform
Spiritualists from America, a wide berth.’ Let us and them
become true Spiritualists. Let us adopt the plan I sketched
out in your June and May issues, and then we in England and
they in America will, by combining with the creedists, be
“ certainly several millions.” John Jones.
Enmore-park, Norwood Junction.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OE “BEVIVALS.”
Sib,—In your number of April 15th, you say, “ The
Revivalist preacher is, in fact, a powerful biologist, though he
may not know it himself.” I am of your opinion. I never,
to my knowledge, heard a Revivalist preacher but once, and
he certainly appeared to me to be a very powerful biologist,
indeed ; but that, in this instance, he was himself ignorant
of the fact, I am much inclined to doubt. The place where I
heard him may be considered an unlikely one for such a
scene, though personally I do not hold that view, because the
sermon was preached by one of a Church which has the credit
of despising not the means, provided the end is accomplished.
That Church, however, once made a mistake in the other
direction, and drove Mr. Home from Rome, and finally from
their communion, for which mistake they may be already
smarting. After what I have said I need hardly add that it
was in a Roman Catholic Church where I heard this
Revival sermon. The place, Naples ; the church, large ; the
congregation,, crowded with the poorer classes ; the time,
Vespers; and, as your “ matter-of-fact newspaper reporter ”
says of another gathering, “ the gas was half-mast high, and
the scene was very impressive.’’ Here were all the signs of a
psychological outbreak, “negatives” weeping and throwing
about their bodies in a surprising manner. The preacher,
seizing suitable occasions, would suddenly stop, and ask his
hearers a question. The ayes or noes were almost unanimous
throughout the congregation, where there must have been a
vast number of “negatives,” indeed, many of whom certainly
did not confine their answers to a monosyllable. I only re¬
gret that the sermon preached was in a Neapolitan dialect, of
which I could hardly understand a simple word; but, never¬
theless, I repeat, “ the scene was very impressive.”—W. R. T.
Spibitualism, and Insanity.—A chemist’s assistant in
Melbourne, named George Thompson, has destroyed himself
by taking prussic acid. The only reason his friends could
give for his desire to put an end to his life was, that his mind
had become affected in consequence of his having joined the
ranks of the “ Spiritualists.” The coroner’s jury adopted the
same view, declaring in their verdict their opinion that the
deceased was of unsound mind, “ brought on through reading
books on Spiritualism.”—Haverford/mest Telegraph.
86
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1870.
THE PROPHECY OP YALA.
This poem -was given by a spirit, -who gave the name of Edgar A. Poe,
through the mediumship of Miss Lizzie Doten. It is published in her in¬
spirational Poems of the Inner Life. W. White and Co., Boston. TT.S. The
style of composition of this poem is manifestly that of Edgar A. Poe, and as
a specimen of literary -work, it is finer perhaps than anything he wrote during
his earthly life, for it shows a clearer recognition of first principles. In his
other poems there is a musical flow of words which pleases the ear, but
does not appeal so forcibly to the higher feelings.
The Prophecy of Vala is founded on the Scandinavian mythology. Odin,
the great All-Father, is the sovereign power of the universe; Thor, a lesser
god, of whom it is said, “his mighty hammer smote thunder out of every
thing.” Baldur was a son of Odin and Frigga. He was slain by Horder,
his blind brother, who was persuaded to the act by LokiS, an evil spirit, cor¬
responding to the Hebrew or Christian devil. The Valkyrien were the genii
of the battle-field. The three Nomen were the Fates who watered the tree
Yggdrasill, at whose roots it is said that a dragon was constantly gnawing.
The Heimskringla was the circle of the universe. Vala was a seeress, or
prophetess, who was summoned from the dead by Odin, to tell of the fate
of Baldur; but on her appearance refused to do so, and to the astonishment
of all, prophesied the death of all the sons of Odin at the day of Ragnaroc,
which corresponds to the day of judgment, with the exception that it was
also the day of reconstruction, or renewal of the world. The Prophecy of
Vala, as given in the old Icelandic Edda, has been used with perfect free¬
dom, to present the idea that Q-ood, though apparently overcome of Evil,
should ultimately triumph.—Explanation by Poe.
I have walked with the Fates and the Furies ’mid the wrecks of the mighty
Past,
I have stood in the giant shadows which the ages have'backward cast,
And I’ve heard the voices of prophets come down in a lengthening chain,
Translating the Truth Eternal, and making its meaning plain;
Backward still, ever backward, ’mid wreck and ruin I trod,
Seeking Life’s secret sources, and the primal truths of God.
“ Tell me,” I cried, “ 0 Prophet, thou shade of the mighty Past,
What of the Truth in the future ? Is its horoscope yet cast ?
Thou didst give it its birth and being, thou didst cradle it in thy breast—
Show me its shining orbit, and the place of its final rest! ”
A sound like the restless earthquake! a crash like the “ crack of doom! ”
And a fiery fulmination streamed in through the frightened gloom.
I stood in the halls of Odin, and the great All-Father shone
Like the centre and sun of Being, ’mid the glories of his throne;
And Thor, with his mighty hammer, upraised in his giant hand,
Stood ready to wake the thunder at his sovereign Lord’s command.
“ Ho, Thor! ” said the mighty, Odin, “ our omens are all of ill,
For the dragon gnaweth sharply at the roots of Yggdrasill;
I hear the wild Valkyrien, as they shriek on the battle-plain,
And the moans of the faithful Nornen, as they weep over Baldur slain.
A woe to the serpent Lok€, and to Horder’s reckless ruth,
For Goodness is slain of Evil, and Falsehood hath conquered Truth!
Now call thou on mystic Vala, as she sleeps in the grave of Time,
Where the hoary age hath written her name in a frosty rime;
She can tell when the sun will darken, when the stars shall cease to burn,
When the .sleeping dead shall waken, and when Baldur shall return.”
A sound like the rushing tempest, and the wondrous hammer fell,
And the great Heimskrhigla shuddered, and swayed like a mighty bell.
There were mingled murmurs and discords, like the wailing of troubled
souls;
Like the gnomes at their fiery forges—like the bowlings of restless ghouls.
Then out of the fiery covert of the tempest and the storm,
Like a vision of troubled slumber, came a woman’s stately form.
There fell a hush as at midnight, when the sheeted dead awake,
And even the silence shuddered, as her words of power she spake
“Mighty Odin, I am Vala,
I have heard your thunder-call,
I have heard the woful wailing
, Sounding forth from Wingolf's hall
And I know that beauteous Baldur,
Loved of all the gods, is slain—
That the evil Lok6 triumphs,
And on Horder rests the stain.
But my words shall fail to tell you
Aught concerning him you mourn.
For the leaves that bear the record
From the Tree of Life are tom;
And while Hecla’s fires shall glow,
Or the bubbling Geysers flow,
Of his fate no one shall know—
Understand you this, or no ?
“ I will sing a solemn Saga,
I will chant a Runic rhyme,
Weave a wild prophetic Edda,
From the'scattered threads of time
Know, 0 Odin,—mighty Odin,—
That thy sons shall all be slain,
Where the wild Valkyrien gather,
On the bloody battle plain;
And thy throne itself shall tremble
With the stem, resistless shock.
Which shall rend the world asunder
At the day of Ragnaroc.
Other stars the night shall know,
From the rock shall waters flow,
• And from ruin beauty grow.
Understand you this, or no ?
“ Vainly shall the faithful Nornen,
Water drooping Yggdrasill, f
For the wrathful, restless dragon
At its roots is gnawing still.
Lokds evil arts shall triumph,
Horder’s eyes be dark With night,
Till the day of re-creation
Brings the buried Truth to light:
Then a greater god than Odin,
Over all the worlds shall reign,
And my Saga’s mystic meaning
As the sunlight shall be plain.
Out of evil good shall grow—
Doubt me not, for time shall show.
Understand you this, or no ?
Fare you well! I go—I go! ”
There came a voice as of thunder, with a gleam of lurid light,
And the mystic Vala vanished like a meteor of the night;
Then I saw that the truth of the present is but the truth of the past,
But each phase is greater, and grander, and mightier than the last—
That the past is ever prophetic of that which is yet to be,
And that God reveals his 'glory by slow and distinct' degree;
Yet still are the nations weeping o’er the graves of the Truth and Right;
Lo! I summon another Vala—let her prophesy to-night.
With the amaranth, and the myrtle, and the asphodel on her brow,
Still wet with the dew of the kingdom, doth she stand before, you now:
“Not with sound of many thunders,
Not with miracles and wonders,
Would I herald forth my coming from the peaceful spirit-shore;
But in God’s own love descending,
With your aspirations blending,
I would teach you of the future, that you watch and weep no more.
“God is God from the creation;
Trath, alone, is man’s salvation:
But the God that now you worship soon shall be your God no more
For the soul, in its unfolding,
Evermore its thought remoulding,
Learns more truly, in its progress, ‘ how to love and to adore! ’
“ Evil is of Good, twin brother,
Bom of God, and of none other:
And though Truth seem slain of Error, through the ills that men deplore,
Yet, still nearer to perfection,
She shall know a resurrection.
Passing on from ceaseless glory, unto glory evermore.
“From the truths of former ages,
From the world’s close-lettered pages,
Man shall Team to meet more bravely all the life that lies before
For the day of retribution
Is the final restitution ‘
Of the good, the true, the holy, which fhall live forevermore t
‘ Understand you this, or no ?
Fare you well! I go—I got’”
MESSRS. CROOKES & YARLEY OK SPIRITUALISM.
(Continued from, page 84.)
caution to place the battery and keys on a side table, and
led the wires from the * keys ” or commutators, to the appa¬
ratus on the tables round which we sat, so that I could, in the
dark, perform the yarious experiments I had arranged to try.
Whenever, by accident, my hands came in contact with one of
the wires, without my being aware which wire it was, I put
these questions;—‘ Is a current flowing through it 1 ’ and if
they said ‘ Yes,’ I asked * In which direction does it flow
through my hand?’ This experiment was repeated, if my
memory serves me rightly, not less than ten times. Each
time, directly after being informed of the direction of
the current, a light was struck, and in every instance I found
we had been correctly advised, if we assume that the current
flows from the positive to the negative pole.
“ The experirfientsjwith the helix were of two kinds :—First,
‘ What action had the electrified helix upon me when placed
over my head ?’ Secondly, ‘ When a piece of iron, or a
compass needle, was placed inside it, could the spirits affect
the magnetic action of the helix upon the iron or compass ? ’
Repeatedly during the investigations, and while we were in
the dark, I seized the opportunity of placing the magnetized
helix over my head, and immediately, on each occasion, the
spirits requested me not to do it, as it hurt me ; nevertheless,
I could feel no pain, or sensible action myself. As no one but
myself was aware that I intended to, or was placing, this
helix over my head, it is perfectly clear that the fact was
made known by some means inexplicable as yet by orthodox
science.
“ The result of my investigations in this direction lead me to
infer that there are probably other powers accompanying
electric and magnetic streams, which other powers are seen
by the spirits, and are by them mistaken for the forces which
we call electricity and magnetism. This is an hypothesis not
hastily arrived at. Whenever a current flowed through the
helix, the spirits declared that they did augment and diminish
the power of the magnetic field at will. My apparatus showed
no such variation of power. They persisted in the correctness
of their statement night after night, and time after time. I
insisted, on the contrary, that no action visible to me was
produced. One evening, when carefully repeating the ex¬
periments (my apparatus was not very sensitive) the idea
occurred to me to replace the little compass needle with a
small quartz crystal. The spirits described the crystal as a
fine magnet, and declared that they altered its magnetism at
will.
“ Mrs. Varley can often see similar light issuing alike from
steel magnets, rock crystals, and human beings, though in the
latter case the luminosity varies in intensity. Putting all
these things together, I think the spirits see around magnets
this light (which Baron Reichenbach has named Od force)
and not the magnetic rays themselves.
“About the existence of the ‘ flames of Od ’ from magnets,
crystals, and human beings, I have had abundant and con¬
clusive evidence from experiments with Mrs. Varley.
“ I have used the word ‘ spirits,’ well-knowing that the
world at large does not believe that we have any warranty
for assuming that our friends are able to communicate with
us, after the dissolution of the material body. My authority
for asserting that the spirits of kindred beings do visit us is—
1. I have on several occasions distinctly seen them. 2. On
several occasions things known only to myself and to the
deceased person purporting to communicate with me, have
been correctly Stated, while the medium was unaware of any
of the circumstances. 3. On several occasions things known
only to our two selves, and which I had entirely forgotten, have
been recalled to my mind by the communicating spirit, there¬
fore this could not be a case of mere thought-reading. 4. On
some occasions, when these communications have been made
to me, I have put my questions mentally, while the medium—
a private lady in independent circumstances—has written out
the answers, she being quite unconscious of the meaning of the
communications. 5. The time and nature of coming events,
unanticipated and unknown both to myself and the medium,
have, on more than one occasion, been accurately made known
to me several days in advance. As my invisible informants
told the truth regarding the coming events, and also stated
that they were spirits, and as no mortals in the room had any
knowledge of some of the-facts they communicated, I see no
reason to disbelieve them. Mrs. Varley very frequently sees
and recognises spirits ; especially is this the case when she is
entranced. She is a very good trance medium, but I have
little power over the occurrence of these trances; there is
consequently nearly as much difficulty in investigating through
her mediumship, as there is investigating that extraordinary,
unexplained natural phenomenon — ball-lightning — which
occurs in times and places unexpected, and beyond human
control.
“ My early religious education was received from that very
narrow-minded sect, the Sandimanians ; their teachings
wholly failed to satisfy my anxiety about the future.* It was
while edeavouring to get some information regarding the re¬
lations between man and the Deity, from some spirits who
were evidently more advanced than myself, that I received,
unexpectedly, a communication upon another subject which
had puzzled me much, namely, ‘ Why have not the more in¬
telligent spirits given us some scientific information in
advance of any yet possessed by man ?,’ As I think the ex¬
planation to be sound and logical, I mention it here, not asking
you to accept it, but to prepare you when the same question
occurs to your own mind.
“They told me that I myself had often experienced how im¬
perfect words were as a means of communicating new ideas ;
that spirits in advance of the great intelligences upon earth
do not use words in communicating with each other, because
they have the power of instantly communicating the actual
idea as it exists in their own thought, to the other spirit:
that when they telegraph to mortals, even through clairvoyant
and trance-mediums, who form by far the best channel for
messages of high intelligence, they put the thought into the
mind of the medium, for that mind to translate into words,
through the mechanism of the brain and mouth ; consequently
what we usually get is a bad interpretation of a subject
which the translator does not comprehend.
* Faraday was a Sandimanian, and preached sometimes. A letter pub¬
lished last February in The Spectator says“ In your review of ‘ The Life of
Faraday ’ ("Feb. 12), you state that he refused to bring to bear upon the highest
things those mental operations which he delighted to apply to very high
things, and that in religion he neither investigated nor reasoned. This is
quite true, and I am able to corroborate it from having heard Faraday ex¬
press himself in terms almost identical. A relative of mine, at whose house
Faraday was staying some years ago, put this question to the philosopher:
‘ How is it that you are a believer in the doctrines of your Sect ? ’ His reply
was, ‘ I prostrate my reason in this matter, for if I applied the same process
of reasoning which I use in matters of science, I should be an unbehever.’
Faraday was, as I have good reason to know, a practical Christian in every
respect.”—Ed.
“ The physical manifestations, wonderful and useful though
they be, are generally believed by experienced spiritualists,
to be chiefly produced by spirits of a less advanced nature
than the average men of civilised countries; of the general
truth of this I entertain no doubt.
“ I have failed at present to find a medium acquainted with
science, and therefore capable of translating into intelligible
language ideas of a scientific nature. This is not to be won¬
dered at, when we remember that there are thirty millions of
British subjects, while there are probably not more than a hun¬
dred known mediums in the whole kingdom, and very few of
these are well developed; this gives us one publicly known
medium to every 300,000 persons. Oat of the thirty millions,
I do not suppose there are as many as one thousand well
acquainted with natural philosophy, and accustomed to reason
thereon. If, then, but one in thirty thousand is a scientific
investigator, while there is only one medium to 300,000 per¬
sons, we can only expect one scientific medium for each ten
generations. Even if we assumed that there are 10,000 clear¬
headed natural philosophers in Great Britain, that would still
only give us one good scientific medium to a generation.
When it is further considered that the majority of our
mediums are females, who, from the mis-educatiqn of English
ladies, are rarely accustomed to accurate investigation, it is
still less to be wondered at that so little advance has been
made in the scientific branch of the subject.
“ I am highly gratified to "find that you have commenced a
series of investigations into this interesting subject. I can
promise you that it will repay you for your trouble, and I will
willingly afford you any help in my power.
“ There are many other points I should like to communicate,
but which I must defer to another occasion.
“I do not know a single instance in either the old or new
world in which any clear-headed man, who has carefully ex¬
amined the phenomena, has failed to become a convert to the
spiritual hypothesis. The abuse and ridicule we have to en¬
counter come only from those who have never had the
courage or the decency, to make an investigation before de¬
nouncing that about which they are entirely ignorant. In this
latter respect the world seems to have made absolutely no
progress during the last 1870 years. I am, my dear sir, very
truly yours, &c. Cromwell F. Varley.
Fleetwood House, Beckenham, Kent.”
The following letter has just been received from Mr.
Crookes :—
“20, Mornington-road, N.W.
July 13th, 1870.
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
“ Sir,—As I understand you are about to publish Mr.Varley’s
letter to me of the 9th inst., you may probably not obj ect to
let my reply to him follow it.
“As your excellent paper is now the recognised organ of the
educated class of Spiritualists, will you let me take this
opportunity of appealing to all who’ desire to further the
progress of truth for assistance in these investigations. A
good physical medium who would come at certain times-to
my laboratory, and would not object to let me experiment
in my own way, would probably do more for the cause which
we all have at heart—that of the truth—than all the trance
mediums who ever mistook hazy metaphysics for scientific
proof.—I remain, sir, your obedient servant,
William Crookes.”
The following is the reply of Mr. Crookes to the letter from
Mr. Varley:—
“ 20, Mornington-road, London, N.W.
July 13th, 1870.
“ Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive your
letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some points
alluded to in'my paper on “ Spiritualism viewed by the Light
of Modem Science.”
“ You have been working at’the subject for more years than
I have months, and knowing, as you do, the enormous diffi¬
culties in the way of accurate investigation—difficulties for
the most part interposed by Spiritualists themselves—you will
not be surprised to find that I only feel the ground firm under
me for a very short distance along the road which you have
travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experiments, the
more so, as I haye been working in a similar direction myself,
but as yet with scarcely a tangible result.
“You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I shall
not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal fearlessness
for the consequences, whatever convictions my investigation
leads me to—^whether it points to a mere physical force, or
makes me, as you predict, a convert to the spiritual hypothesis
—but I must let my convictions come in my own way, and if
I hold somewhat stubbornly to the laws of conservation of
force and impenetrability of matter, it should not be con¬
sidered as a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in
my scientific education.
11 have already had many letters,, both from Spiritualists,
and from leading men of science, saying that they are glad
I have taken up the subject, and urging me to continue the
investigation. In fact, I have been agreeably surprised to
find encouragement from so many scientific men, as well as
sympathy from the good friends I possess amongst the Spirit¬
ualists.—Believe me, my dear sir, very truly yours,
William Crookes.”
DR. NEWTOFS HEALIKGr MEDIUMSHIP.
In the last number of this journal was printed a list of 105
cases of relief or cure of sickness by Dr. Newton ; in collecting
those cases, it will be remembered that a species of selection
was exercised on the spot by our reporter. To obtain further
data as to the authenticity and permanency of these cures, the
following circular was posted to seventy-two of the patients,
who live in and near London :—
The Spiritualist Newspaper Office,
II, Ave Maria-lane, E.O., June IStti, 1870.
' Sir,—The Editor of The Spiritualist desires me to inform you, that ha
should be glad to hear from you as to the permanence of the relief de
rived from your treatment by Dr. Newton, as published in The Spiritualist
of this day. Also, if your cure is of a very remarkable nature, is your
ordinary medical attendant willing to write any certificate or comments on
the subject?—Very truly, yours, E. W. Allen, Publisher.
One object of sending out this circular was to ascertain how
many, if any, of the persons who said they were cured gave
false addresses. Six out of the seventy-two circulars were
returned through the Dead-Letter Office, and the following
were the cases :—
19. Mary Andrews, 69, Metropolitan Meat Market.
20. Robert Andrews, 69, Metropolitan Meat Market.
64. William Gage, 76, New Wellington-street, Holloway.
79. Ann Nicholson, 36, Liverpool-road, Islington.
83. Mary Ann Smith, 22, Gray’s-inn-lane.
102. Emma Ansell, 5, Compton-place, St. Pancras.
July 15, 1870
THE SPIRITUALIST.
87
The first two cases in the above list were taken down from
the lips of a man who gave the name of “ Robert Andrews
the man was sharp and intelligent enough in speech ; he gave
our reporter “ 59 ” as the number of his house, and the Medium
reporter “ 151 ’’ as the number; hence there is little doubt
that these two cases are nothing but unprincipled hoaxes.
The case of W. Gage may be a hoax, or insufficient address,
and the same may be said of the Ann Nicholson case. Mary
A. Smith said that she had just arrived in London from the
North of Englahd : we do not think this case to be a hoax ;
perhaps 22, Gray's-inn-road, is a lodging-house. E. Ansell
is a little child, whose mother, an Irishwoman, seemed to know
her home well enough by sight, but not byname. So far, then,
our list of authenticated London cases must be reduced from
seventy-two, to sixty-six. Case 70, taken from The Medium
newspaper, gives a wrong name to the patient; this cure is
the same as case 11. Cases.16 and 75 are also the same. This
reduces the total London list of good cases to 64.
We have received fourteen replies to the circular ; twelve of
the writers say that the relief or cure is real and permanent;
one of them says it is not so. One of them, Mrs. E. Fowler,
5b, Bedford-street, Bedford-square, says simply “not cured;”
but as the report said that she was only relieved and not cured,
her note gives no information in reply to the questions asked.
The following are the twelve cases of permanent relief:—
16. George Richards, 58, Earl-street East, Lisson-grove, farrier. Respect¬
ing this case we have received the follo wing letter:—“ 8, Upper Capland-
•street, Grove-road, St. John’s-wood. Sir,—On behalf of Mr. G. Richards, of
58, Earl-street, Edgware-road, in reply to your note of the 15th inst., I heg
to say it was entirely my persuasion that induced him to see Dr. Newton,
and I am glad to state that the relief he derived from the treatment by that
gentleman is permanent,\and the cure effected is of a very femarkable
nature. It Was a case of paralysis, he having been afflicted by the same for
three years, during which time he could not close his hand, and very fre¬
quently the pains in his hand and arm were such that to rest was quite im¬
possible. He can now close his hand, and has experienced no pain what¬
ever since his treatment by Dr. Newton. He has been under five medical
gentlemen, to one of whom he has shown his case since cured by Dr.
Newton. He was very much astonished, and also acknowledged his belief
in the cure. Mr. Richards wished me not to mention any names of the
medical gentlemen in this reply, as he is satisfied they did their best, and he
earnestly requests me to assure you that he shall ever feel grateful to Dr.
Newton for the benefit he has derived by his visit to this country.—I am,
on behalf of Mr. G. Richards, very truly yours, John Tomlin.'”
17. Ellen Short, Ohestnut-walk, Walthamstow, Essex. “ Contracted para¬
lysis ” for eight months. Permanently relieved, but not cured.
24. Edwin Cowper, 388, Edgeware-road. Lame, and obliged to use
crutches for five years. The power given by Dr. Newton to walk without
crutches still continues, but leg still weak. Has received benefit also from
Mrs. Olive’s healing mediumship.
57. Heniy Williams, 25, Warburton-street, Mayor-street, Hackney. “I
can see better than I could.” , •
58. W. Elliott, 103, Haggerstone-road, N.E. Deafness of one ear for forty
years. Can still hear with the cured ear nearly as well as with the other.
61. Jabez Thurgood, 7, Nelson-buildings, Remington-street, City-road,
wholesale butter-dealer. Not completely cured of blindness of one eye, as
stated, but can see better with it.
62. H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law, Kilmorey-house, Penge. We have
received the following letter“ Sir,—In reply to your circular respecting
the cure effected upon me by Dr. Newton, I have but to restate what I have
already publicly said—namely, that owing to the injuries I had received in
Spain, the vision of the left eye had become impaired. I consulted with
my brother, Dr. Jencken, who appeared to think that I was suffering from
a pseudo astigmatism, a form of disease very difficult to-cure; the symp¬
toms commencing, as was the case with me, with double vision and coloured
field of view. The cure effected by Dr. Newton was very rapid, and after
he had mesmerised rhe a second time, the eye entirely recovered its power
of sight.—Obediently yours, H. D. Jencken.—27th June, 1870.”
73. H. Wooderson, “ King’s Arms,” Hampton-court. Eczema. Cure per¬
manent.
74, Mr. Browning, Great Yarmouth-villas, College-avenue, Hackney.
Cancer, stiff-knee, and other ailments. Not out of bed for two months, and
after treatment by Dr. Newton, had his pains removed, and could take a
daily airing in the garden for a fortnight. Is now bad again, but very con¬
siderably better than before he saw Dr. Newton. The cancer is decreasing.
80. George Huckle, 18, Great James-street, Bedford-row, builder, the
conservative who was indignant at the abuse of Dr. Newton in The Standard
newspaper, writes:—“June 21st, 1870. Sir,—In answer to your note of
June 15th, I am happy to say that I have not had a pain in my hip-joint
since I was under Dr. Newton. There’s still a weakness in the leg; arising,
I think, from the leaders in my leg being drawn up, and the leg is and has
been, only about two-thirds the size of the left leg. As I told you, I have
had the disease in it for five years, and it was still getting worse. I am
thankful that I went to Dr. Newton. I have been under medical treatment
by my family doctor, and I have been to St. Bartholomew’s, King’s College,
and Royal Free Hospitals, and never got any relief from the pain. Wish¬
ing Dr. Newton every success in his good work, I am, yours respectfully,
G. Huckle.”
86. Sarah: Cole, 25, Warburton-road, London-flelds. Nearly blind of both
eyes, and could only just see to dress her children. The cure is permanent
and complete; she can now thread needles and read newspapers. The
doctors had previously told her that her complaint was “constitutional.”
She had been treated at the Opthalmic Hospital, Moorflelds, and by Dr.
Simmonds, of Hackney, but received no benefit. For ten months before
seeing Dr. Newton her eyes had been growing worse; they were very much
inflamed, and throbbed with pain incessantly. Wore a sunshade when she
went to Dr. Newton, because’ she could not bear the light. Dr. Newton
cured her instantaneously, and in walking home she had no pain, no inflam¬
mation, no dimness, no sunshade. Her cure is obvious to all who know her.
She says—“ This I know, before I went to Dr. Newton I was nearly blind,
but now I see.” Her husband also attests the truth of these statements, and
has sent us his signature appended thereunto.
101. John Palmer, 285, Gray’s-inn-road, refreshment-house keeper, writes
—“ 285. Gray’s-inn-road. Sir,—In answer to your desire to hear from me
with relation to my experience of Dr. Newton’s treatment for deafness, I beg
to say my hearing is considerably improved in consequence of visiting Dr.
Newton. As a proof, I tried several times previously to visiting Dr. N.
to hear the ticking of my watch, but could not do so; but to my great
surprise, and no less satisfaction, ever since the Doctor Has treated me, I
have been able to do so. In conclusion, I would say my deafness is of
twenty-five years’ standing, and I was a good deal sceptical as to getting any
relief, and in all honesty I will say, though not cured, I am a good deal
better, for which I am obligated to Dr. Newton.—Yours, most sincerely,
John Palmer.
In our list of 105 cases published last month, two of the
cases were authenticated and permanent, and we have received
an authentication of a Liverpool case, so in this place we call
attention to three more permanent cures.
,22. The Rev. F. R. Young, Swindon. Neuralgia of eleven years’ duration,
"Went from. England to New York in 1868 on purpose to see Dr. Newton,
who cured him at once. No return of the pains since. ’
23. W. Ashley, 5, Catherine-street, Liverpool, retired merchant. In. rapid
consumption, given over by the doctors, who told his wife to be prepared
for his death at any moment. Had not been out of his bed for five months,
and on Saturday, May 7 th, burst a blood vessel. On Sunday, May 8th, Dr.
Newton saw him, and in seven minutes brought him downstairs in such
good condition that he attended a public meeting the same evening. Next
day went out for a walk, ate a neat dinner, and drank ale with it. Has
since been examined with a stethoscope, and the doctors say that his lungs
are all right. He writes us:—“ Sir,—In reply to your letter of yesterday
respecting the cure by Dr. Newton, I can only add, that so far as I am able
to judge, the cure is a permanent one. Some days ago I was examined by
a medical man of standing in this town (not my own medical attendant)
who pronounced, after a careful examination, the lungs all right. After
this, I think, I need not add more.—^Respectfully yours, Wm. Ashley.”
97. George Wright, 10, Charlotte-place, Paddington, W. Gall-stones
three months. Permanently cured.
The Medium of July 8th, 1870, authenticates the permanency
of another of the cures by Dr.Newton, reported in our columns;
the following are the particulars :—
69. John Blackburn, Bottom Salterhebble, Halifax, Yorkshire, Nearly
stone blind for eight yqars; could only just tell day from night, and could
see nothing. After treatment by Dr.'Newton could see persons, houses,
writing, colours, and found *his eyesight nearly restored. As he is well-
known in his own locality as a blind medium and a public speaker, and it is
perfectly evident to everybody that now he can see, this case is causing
intense excitement in the district.
Here then are sixteen thoroughly authenticated cases of
cure or of permanent relief. In our list of 105 cases published
last week, 33 were quoted from provincial papers; we sent
circulars to a few only of these persons, and find that many of
those described as benefited, had received no benefit at all;
in fact these 33 cases have been collected in a very slipshod
manner, and are unreliable. The instances in which we have
letters saying that no relief has been derived, are Nos. 26, 93,
and 95 (Mrs. Wales); case 39 is “ insufficient address.” Thus,
although we only sent about ten circulars to these provincial
cases, four of the cases proved to be bad, and we have no ad¬
vices about the remainder. No. 26 is a very unfortunate case,
and here it is :—
26. Alfred Jeffries,Paul-street, Corsham, Wilts. “Dear Sir,—We received
your note this morning. You are desirous to hear whether I received any
benefit from Dr. Newton or not. I am very sorry to tell you that I received
no benefit at all; it cost me a great deal of expense and anxiety. In train¬
ing, I had to leave Corsham on Saturday, and I had to put up in an hotel in
Swindon, till Sunday. I thought I was a little better at the time, but T
think it was anxiety of mind. I have seen and heard of a good many, and
I have not seen or heard of any cures that he has made.. .. Very truly
yours, Alfred Jeffries.”
As already stated, one of the letters received in answer to the
seventy-two circulars posted to patients in the London district,
contained a contradiction of the published statement of cure,
and complained of the original statements having been inaccu¬
rately taken down. At the Cambridge Hall, a man who gave
the name of “ Samuel Chaston,” made to our reporter, and
others present, the following statement, which wp,s taken
down in shorthand, as the words fell from his lips, and printed
in the last number of this Journal:—
12. Samuel Chastou, 2, Harford-place, Drury-lane, cook. Had been
lame,' and unable to attend to his business for seven years, because of
chronic rheumatics and rheumatic gout. When he entered Cambridge Hall,
could only walk by the aid of two sticks; by Dr. Newton’s treatment had
his pains removed, and could walk without sticks. Had once been under the
treatment of Dr. Harley and others, atKng’s College Hospital. Dr. Johnson,
of King’s College Hospital, knew his case three years ago. Was once cook
to the 96th Regiment, but Dr. Armstrong, the surgeon, did not cure him.
He made other statements, which were taken down, but not
printed. In reply to our circular, he wrote the following
letter:—
“July 2,1870.
“ Sir,—I am constantly annoyed by letters and persons calling here to
ascertain if the report printed in the Spiritualist paper respecting Dr. New¬
ton’s cure of my affliction is correct. I beg you to understand there is not
an atom of truth in the report, I received not the slightest benefit, and have
been much worse since I saw him (not blaming him for that), as of course
such humbug as he performs is a mockery. It is disgraceful you should
publish such an article until you inquire into the truth of the case, and I beg
you will contradict it in toio. Your obedient Servant,
Samuel Ohaston,
2, Harford-place, Drury-lane, W. O.
Mr. E. B. Allen, publisher Spiritualist Newspaper.”
Mr. Allen, at our request, then wrote the following note :—■
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Mr. Samuel Ohaston, July nth, 1870.
2, Harford-place, Drury-lane.
Sir,—The Editor of the Spiritualist desires me to present his compliments
and to ask you whether anybody has falsely assumed your name and
address, either in making the published statement to the reporter of your
alleged cure by Dr. Newton, or in signing a letter which has been received
by me, denying that cure. The letter has your name at the end, and is
dated July 2nd, 1870. A promt reply will oblige. Yours, &e.
E. W. Allen.
To the foregoing note the following reply has been re¬
ceived :—■
Mr. E. W. Allen. July nth, 1870.
Sir,—In answer to your note just received, I beg to say that the letter
you had, dated 2nd July, 1870, and signed with my name, was sent by me,
and I repeat that Dr. Newton is neither more nor less than a humbug, and
all his followers of the same clique, and I think such a fellow justly deserves
punishment for his fearful blasphemy. If your paper has any circulation
1 am sorry for its readers, as their time should be better employed than
perusing such trash, and had I the means I should certainly make you pay
for making use of my name to such a barefaced lie. Yours obediently,
Samuel Ghaston,
2, Harford-place, Drury-lane, W.O.
P.S.—I have sent a copy of this to a daily paper, as also both your letters,
as publication may help to stop such imposition.
Since our last notice, Dr. Newton publicly healed many of
the sick poor gratis for a week, in the chapel of the Rev. Jabez
Burns, D.D., New Church-street, Edgware-road; as usual, four
or five were not benefited for every single person who was
cured or relieved. One man brought his son in, and Dr. New¬
ton at once said that he could not cure him, as his organs of
sight were destroyed; the father then began to abuse Dr.
Newton, and made such a noise in the chapel, that it was
found necessary to turn him out. The daily papers, of course,
made a terrible affair of this simple incident, and all through
the month told as much untruth as before about the Doctor,
the Echo as usual being the most untruthful and unscrupulous.
This paper, on its placards, called Dr. Newton “a miracle
worker,” which he is not, and never professed to be ; moreover,
Dr. Newton does not believe in miracles. However, such is
the morality of the London press, that a private individual is
unhesitatingly calumniated, if thereby a good line can be put
in the bills to push on the sale of papers. Some of the papers
got up an account (not true) of a desperate attempt to upset
Dr. Newton in a cab. Dr. Newton’s private secretary, Mr.
Watson, 34, Upper Park-road, Haverstock-hill, was in the cab,
and he tells us that when he read of the attempt to upset it, it
was all news to him. Then again every Sunday, when Dr. New¬
ton, as is his custom, is away from London healing the sick in
some country town, the papers always publish that he has
“ run away ” from the Metropolis because he has found it too
hot to hold him ; these paragraphs are printed regularly, -and
had better be kept in type, as they will do to use week after
week for a long time. The Rev. Dr. Bums is a Baptist minis¬
ter, not a Spiritualist, who having satisfied himself that Dr.
Newton actually cured Mr. Van Meter and others of their
diseases, offered him the use of his chapel for the healing of
the sick ; probably if Jesus of Nazareth came to earth again,
healing the sick and applying radical expressions to vested
interests, the only Christian place of worship where he could
gain admittance to carry on his work would be Dr. Burns’s
chapel, and he would be thoroughly abused in the newspapers.
However, Spiritualism and the Spiritual periodicals, are
now getting sufficiently well known to render the untruths in
the daily papers very harmless, as proved by the invitations to
Dr. Newton to visit country towns. He has been to Swindon,
Nottingham, and Halifax; he was least successful in curing
people in Nottingham than anywhere else, but got on well in
Halifax. Next Sunday he will heal publicly in the Temperance
Hall, Andover, Hants, and on the following Sunday will heal
the sick poor publicly at Maidstone, all free of charge as usual.
In the long account of the life and mediumship of Dr.
Newton, printed in the last number of this journal, we omitted
to state that several years ago the ordinary rapping mani¬
festations were obtained through his mediumship ; he rapidly
passed through this stage of development, but at the present
time, when his spirit friends have something very urgent to
tell him, they first call his attention by three heavy thumping
knocks, which are usually made upon the floor of the room.
The temporary formation of flowers and spirit hands are not
uncommon things at circles, as the literature of Spiritualism
abundantly testifies; real flowers and fruits are also often
brought in some strange way to circles by the spirits. Dr.
Newton and Mr. Watson tell us, that one night the spirits ,
brought out a full-blown geranium on a geranium flower-stalk,
which had previously had flowers on it, but w hich for three
days had been lying dead and dry on a shelf ne ar the bed of
Dr. Newton, in his house at Haverstock-hill. His spirits tell
him that they developed a dry bud during the night out of
the vital forces derived from his body. The flower is smaller
and redder than those previously on the stalk.
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists.—The annual
report of this Society, just issued by Mr. R. Pearce, the
secretary, sets forth that the receipts and expences about
balance each other, leaving a small surplus in band. The
Association was formed for the purpose of making known, as
far as lies in the power of its members, the truths of Spiritualism,
and for giving enquirers opportunities of investigating the
subject. During the past year it has been the means of giving
six free public lectures, and has held forty-four seances, and
two social tea-meetings. Donations and subscriptions from
friends of the movement will be thankfully received. The
treasurer is Mr. J. S. Steele, 36, Great Sutton-street, Clerk-
well.
Psychological Phenomena.—In a lecture delivered a
few days ago, by Mr. John Lewis, manager of the Pembroke¬
shire bank, at Haverfordwest, on the life and deeds of the
late Rev. D. Davies, a minister held in much respect in the
locality, the speaker narrated the following instance of the
partial development of the clairvoyant powers of the human
spirit, shortly before the death of the body :—“ During that
last, that fatal illness of Mr. Davies, the tone of his conversa¬
tion was often peculiar and startling. He would often dis¬
course on some of the abstruser and more difficult doctrines
of religion, and appeared to take a peculiar delight in linger¬
ing over them. A friend having made some remarks on
atheism, he replied, ‘ There is more religion in the world than
such men can imagine or understand. God has written upon
the heart of man, and on the works of His hand, the know¬
ledge of Himself. I believe it. I believe that deep down
in the heart of man, there is an unconscious recognition of
His existence. It is this which prevents our world from
becoming a hell. But for this restraining, but in most
cases unrecognised knowledge, our world would be the
habitation of fiends, and I believe that could we blot out this
uuconscious knowledge of God from the heart of man, we
should do more harm to God’s world than if we were to
destroy all the churches and chapels that exist.’ At another
time he said, ‘ Oh ! that I were allowed to preach some half-
dozen sermons more, I think I could discourse clearly now on
truths, the meaning of which I but dimly perceived before.
Ah! this near approach to an eternal world purges the vision
from many of its former impurities, and makes clear what
was before doubtful and obscure, but the obscurity was in us,
not in the truths,’ He then in a strain of joyous transport
gave utterance to that which startled those who listened
to them, as if in a vision he could see clearly great realities.
1 They come to me at night, hut not a dream.
Those revelations of realities,—
Just at the turning moment, ere mine eyes
Are closed to sleep, they come, clear sudden gleams,
Brimful of truth like drops from heaven’s deep streams
They glide into my soul.’
At these times, truth in its essence seemed to lie buried before
him. On another occasion he said, ‘ Ah this, lullaby religion,
what mischief it has done in the Church and in the world. I
don’t believe it. Tell them, when I am gone, that I was no
believer in the lullaby religion, which sings men to sleep.
Privileges ! Let a man do his duty and he will want none
to talk to him about his privileges. Duty will bring its own
rewards, for worh is worship." Of the father of this dying
minister, Mr. Lewis said :—“ On the Friday evening previous
to the Sabbath on which he last preached, he completed his
arrangements for the Sunday,—had selected his texts, pre¬
pared his sermons, after which he retired to rest. During the
night, he dreamed that he was preaching to his congregation
a sermon different from either he had prepared, and from a
different text; so vivid were the impressions made on his
mind, that awakening he remembered the entire sermon.
He mentioned his dream to his Wife, saying at the same
time that he so distinctly remembered the whole arrange¬
ment and wording of the sermon, that he should shortly
preach it ; not, however, on the morrow. During the
whole of Saturday, however, he could not escape the
impressions produced by that sermon, they became more
and more powerful as the day drew on, until at length ‘ he
could not get that sermon out of his mind.’ On the Sabbath
day he found a difficulty in conducting his morning service,
the thoughts and words of the sermon in his dream were con¬
stantly arising, until out of positive necessity he was con¬
strained to preach that sermon on the Sabbath evening. The
text was that beautiful passage in the 20th Acts, 24th verse,
‘ But none of these things move me, neither count I my life
dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy,
and the ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to
testify the gospel of the grace of God.’ That sermon, the last
that he ever preached, was the means of his son’s conversion.
We do not intend to philosophise on this dream, but simply to
state the fact; it reminds us, however, of the well-known
dream of Coleridge, in which he composed the famous ‘ Kubla
Khan,’ of all his poems perhaps the most rythmical and melo¬
dious. But if the dream of Coleridge produced his ‘ Kubla
Khan,’ which every lover of poetry delights to sing, the
dream of Benjamin Davies produced his last sermon.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. L.—We can say nothing for or against the publication of anything
until we have seen it. Can you give the titles and authors’ names
of the hooks mentioned?
P. Dublin; B. Southampton; A. C. S. Kilbum. The pressure of
news causes unavoidable delay in the publication of your com¬
munications, which are suitable for any date.
T. V., Haverfordwest.—In reply to your note asking for more de¬
tailed information about the religious teachings of spirits, it may
be stated that a man is only a ghost, with a little clay plastered
over him. When this material covering dies, the man is the same
man he was before in religion, education, morals, and everything
else, except that his spirit-body has clairvoyant and other powers,
which the earthly body, in its normal state, does not possess.
The.butterfly has powers which the caterpillar has not.. Some
spirits change their religious views a little, and others a great
deal, soon after they begin their duties on the next plane of exis¬
tence. Hence, when you ask, “ What religions do spirits out of
the body teach ? ”—a tolerably fair answer is, “ The same that
spirits in the body teach.” A Buddhist spirit would still uphold
the life of Buddha on earth, as a good example for men to follow,
and the Christian spirit still upholds the life ©f Jesus, as an ex¬
ample which should be followed. The ignorant and brutal man
exhibits his brutality after “ death,” if he gets the chance of com¬
municating at circles; the good and philosophical man, is a philo¬
sopher still, after his earthly body is dead. See the paragraph
printed in italics on the next page.
88
THE SPIRITUALIST
July 15, 1870.
FACTS FOB. NON-SPIBITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Bach individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUAXISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was the affidavit of Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E.,
F.R.G.S., M.R.I..
“ I, Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—
“ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one. years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
. Company.
“About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and communications,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
& possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“ Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.
“ The subject of course offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and Thave
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to an extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Europe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me¬
diums whose cases I have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty.
1 0. F. VABIiHY.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr., Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred B. 'Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, R.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, JS'.W.: Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.O.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Grosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfield, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says :—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a maimer which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me."
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of Ne w York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject ’ and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
■ First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘ Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Spiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The stattments of a
spirit are but the assertions of am, individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, amd to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more thorn we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SFIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most Satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter-
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands.
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
8. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
aorid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
m general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud speH us out a
message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
'■ to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle.
There are in England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. When any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-halt in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece oi music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Yery beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
“THE NEWSPAPER PRESS ’’—THE PRESS ORGAN
THIS JOURNAL is the adopted and re¬
cognised Representative of the Newspaper in¬
terests, and the medium of intercommunication between
Proprietors, Editors, Reporters, Correspondents, Pub¬
lishers, Printers, and all parties associated with News¬
papers. '
Subscriptions, 4s. per annum,'post free, payable in ad¬
vance.
London: E. W. Allen, Publisher, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
HUMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Recent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. James Bdkns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holborn, London, W.O.
T
HE PROGjRESSIYE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Reading-Room supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Room for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Rooms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is21s.per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Blanchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“Home1 for Spiritualism” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C.
The spiritual magazine, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
MAGAZINES for SALE, besides several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND CO., 335, STRAND, W.C.
Where also may be obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, and the Spiritualist on day of
Publication, Wholesale and Retail.
JOSEPH BARKER’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
Now ready, neatly bound in cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Teachings of experience; or,
Lessons I have Learned on my Way through
Life.
London: James Beveridge, 9, 10, 11, Fullwood’s-rents,
Holbom, W.C.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Heywood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
The only Cheap Weekly Horticutupal Journa.
2d. Weekly; and in Monthly Parts, lOd.
THE GARDENER’S MAGAZINE for
Amateur Cultivators, Collectors, and Exhibitors
of Plants, Flowers and Fruits, for Gentlemen’s Gar¬
deners, Florists, Nurserymen, and Seedsmen; for Na¬
turalists, Botanists, Bee-keepers, and Lovers of the
Country. Conducted by Shirley Hibberd, Esq.,
F.R.H.S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
And by Order of all Booksellers and Newsagents in
Town and Country.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT, the Chief
Weekly Newspaper on Spiritualism in the United
States, may be ordered through Mr. James Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
The west London spiritual in¬
stitute, 1, MARYLAND-ROAD, HARROW-
ROAD, W. (Opposite Lock Hospital). Spiritualists and
Inquirers, are invited to the Developing and other Circles,
on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings, at 8 p.m.
Conducted by Mrs. Olive and other Mediums. Further
particulars, or any information relative to Spiritualism,
by addressing, Mr. J. Olive, 1, Maryland-road, Harrow-
road, W. (Opposite Lock Hospital):
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Virp- Pairnnsi •
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, KIT.
Her Grace the Duchess of ArgyU.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noaifles.
The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer: .
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.Cj
Honorary Secreta/ry:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to ladies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been, any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have alreadyavailed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea axe
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
"IVTO. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
_Lv ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that the facts of Spiritualism are true. It contains it
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
Society by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first,
and should be ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
the possession of the early friends of the movement^
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Cover*,
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Mariar-lane, E.O.; or J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C. ■
(Contents.
The Mesmeric Infirmary 81
Remarkable Spiritual Manifestations 81
Messrs. Crookes and Varley on Spiritualism  83
Leader:—Spiritualism and Insanity   85
Correspondence:—American Spiritualists; The
Psychology of “ Revivals ”  85
Poetry :—The Prophecy of Vala ...*   86
Dr. Newton’s Healing Mediumship  86
Paragraphs :—Field Sports, 85; Mr. Disraeli on
“A Future State,” 85; How to Spread Spiri¬
tualism, 85; Spiritualism and Insanity, 85; St.
John’s Association of Spiritualists, 87; Psycho¬
logical Phenomena, 87.
Answers to Correspondents  87
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridgb, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St George the Martyr, London, and published by E.
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
