A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREff Of THE fCIEJMCE /ND ETHICS OF $PIF(ITU/jLJjSM.
No. 20.—Yol. I.
LONDON: SATUEDAY, APRIL 15, 1871.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
MR. OTTO GOLDSCHMIDT.
The Editor expresses his unfeigned regret for having
in the last number of this paper, under the head of
“ Woman’s Rights,” given circulation to certain state¬
ments derogatory to the character of Mr. Otto Gold¬
schmidt. He admits that the insertion of these statements,
particularly with the addition that they might be “ true
or false,” was wholly unjustifiable and without excuse.
He , has tendered, and now publishes, his unqualified
apology to Mr. Goldschmidt for the pain and any other
injury caused by the article in question. Our readers
will have already learned, from the reports in the
Times and other papers of the late trials at Kingston,
that the statements were singularly without foundation
in every particular, and that the Printers and Pub¬
lishers of three other papers which had inserted similar
statements have been cast in damages amounting in all
to <£2,000 besides costs. The Editor thanks Mr. Gold¬
schmidt for his forbearance in not taking'similar pro¬
ceedings against this paper, and - allowing^ him an
opportunity for the insertion of this 'contradiction' and
apology. ' —
HOW THE “SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER
LIBELLED MR. OTTO GOLDSCHMIDT, f ’
NEWSPAPER EDITORS, PROPRIETORS, AND PRINTERS, AND
THE LAW OE LIBEL.
By the Editor.
A craeZ libel,,without a vestige of foundation in truth,
about Mr. Goldschmidt, the husband of Jenny Lind, was
published in a New York paper, from which it was
copied into Public Opinion, and thence into other journals,
including the London Reader, the American Register,
the Haverfordwest Telegraph, the Spiritualist, and how
many more, if any, I know not. In the philanthropic
work of advocating the cause of “ Woman’s Rights,’’
the paragraph was quoted into this journal from the
Raver for divest Telegraph. I did not know its unreliable
American origin.
At the Kingston Spring Assizes, on the 30th of last
month, before the Lord Chief Justice, Mr. Goldschmidt
brought three actions for libel, and the Kingston jury
awarded damages as follows:—Mr. Wyman, of Public
Opinion, £750; Mr. Spottiswoode, of the American
Register, £750; and Mr. Stiff, of the London Reader,
£500; total, <£2,000. In the case of Public Opinion,
the Solicitor-General (specially retained), Mr. C.. Pol¬
lock, Q.C., and Mr. Thesiger were for the plaintiff;
Mr. Sergeant Ballantine and Mr. Holt were for the
defendant.
After the appearance of the quotation in this journal,
a lady reader brought it under the notice of a friend
of Mr. Goldschmidt’s, and when the latter saw it he
placed the matter in the hands of his solicitors, who
wrote:—
“ We are instructed to commence legal proceedings against you
Immediately unless you undertake to insert in your next number an
apology in terms to be previously settled by us on behalf of Mr.
Goldschmidt, accompanied by a full report from the shorthand
notes (with which we will furnish you) of the recent trials, and
unless he is also indemnified against any expenses with reference to
your paper.”
When it was pointed out to Mr. Goldschmidt that
the filling of this number of the journal with long law
reports of trials would spoil it for its readers, he at once
waived that one point out of the three.
After the apology at the head of this column reached
me, I wrote to the solicitors as follows :—
“ With some curiosity to know what a legal apology was like,
I have read the one you have sent, and after carefully considering
it sentence by sentence, I find I agree with the principles involved
in each, there never having been any intention on my part to
libel Mr. Goldschmidt, and he being more than entitled to have the
matter put right in this journal. As no two people write alike, the
style of composition is not mine, but that is a small matter, so I
accept, adopt as my own, and will publish the said apology. With
reference to the shorthand notes Mr. Goldschmidt had taken, to
print as a pamphlet for private circulation: if he wishes to have
them distributed, and would like to present them to the readers of
this journal, I shall be very pleased to issue his pamphlet as a
supplement with the Spiritualist next month, if he will send copies
for the purpose.
The above is all I have to say about this celebrated
Goldschmidt libel case, and now change the subject to
make known what, for some years past, printers, and
others connected with newspapers, have considered to
be “ grievances ” in the law of libel, and a man with a
grievance is always an object of popular interest.
In the first place, if an editor libel anybody, the law
permits the person injured to recover damages from the
printer, or the publisher, or both. I know one printer
who has been nearly ruined three times in his life, for
the printing of libels he knew nothing about, and he says
he would not have known them to be libels had he seen
them before they were printed. The Printers, Register
calls attention, among other cases, to one in which an
eminent printer was put on his trial for libelling some
one of fwhom he had never heard, and on searching for
proofs of .his own guilt, he found it at last in the follow¬
ing,thrilling entry in one of his books :—
A two-sheet demy octavo tractate.”
The guilt of the publisher in the same case, consisted in
his having been made a trade agent without his know¬
ledge or consent, by a customer at a distance.
Even if-those printers or publishers who issue, say a
dozen newspapers weekly, kept a literary lawyer on the
staff to examine them for libels, it would often be im¬
possible for the said intelligent supernumerary to tell
what was and what was' not a libel, without knowing
all the facts of the .case..
Should a printer ora .lawyer’s, clerk be held respon-
sible for the acts of;his principal ?” • ^
This is no laughing matter.: It is one which often
threatens men of high character with ruin. It would
be well, perhaps, for some of the chief newspaper pro¬
prietors in Eleet-street to call a meeting to consider
these things, and to pass, resolutions thereupon for sub-‘
mission to the government.
But a few months ago the House of Commons was
employed in revising the law of libel, and it decided
that a newspaper editor should no longer be prosecuted
for libel for truthfully reporting a speech containing a
libel, he not knowing it to be such, but that .he should
be bound to print a contradiction of the slander directly
after being informed of its nature, the speaker of the
libel being alone held responsible for the consequences
of his acts. The inference therefore is, that the House
of Commons holds the opinion, not yet .expressed in
law, that if one English newspaper incautiously make
a truthful quotation of a libel from another English
newspaper, saying where the quotation came from, the
first English newspaper uttering the libel, shall stand
on the same footing as the person who speaks a libel.
The two cases should be parallel in law. I say “ the
House of Commons ’’ passed this good and just law. It
may have been maimed or thrown out by the House of
Lords. Really I have no knowledge whether it is now
the law of the land or not. It never having been my
intention to libel anybody, and a knowledge of Acts of
Parliament being worthless to the possessor after he
quits the body, manifestly the acquiring of more
knowledge of them than is necessary for temporary
needs, is waste of time. "With scientific knowledge, the
ease is just the reverse.
As the law now stands, supposing a libellous quotation
to find its way'into newspapers half printed in London,
there at once is ground for legal action against some
hundreds of newspaper proprietors, and a thorough
going British jury might award the same damages (for
they could hardly award different ones) in each case,
amounting altogether to some hundreds of thousands of
pounds.* .
If public men or women,once great popular favourites,
fall into great distress in later years, is it for the general
good that such facts should be mentioned in newspapers ?
Clearly, “ Yes,” and for three reasons :—1. Because it
tends to arouse popular sympathy to help them out of
their affliction. 2. Because if the said trouble be
caused by some legal or social error, publication helps
to remove one of the sources of pain to the community.
3. Because secrecy in anything whatever is a mistake
and unnatural. It is a thing which can only exist
while the people in the world, having passed through
the phase of physical barbarism, are savages and can¬
nibals in morals, ever warring with each other.
Children have no secrets, unless cunning be hereditary
in the family, or the ways of the world be forced upon
them in early age by bad parents. Spirits also can
read each other’s thoughts, and mediums while in the
trance or clairvoyant state, very often read off the
present thoughts and past lives of those in the room.
In a few years each reader of these lines will be where
his friends or enemies can by means of the wonderful
natural powers possessed by spirits read off all the acts and
thoughts of his life, so the sooner we all of us try to help
I each other in everything, and begin to have no secrecy
or privacy down here, the better. We do not know why
disembodied human beings have such powers, any more
than we know how waves of light, after setting in
motion the wonderful “ pegs ” on the surface of the
retina of the eye, produce by such mechanical action
the sensations called “vision.”
THE “DAILY TELEGRAPH” ON SPIRITUALISM.
On. Good Friday, last, week, the Daily Telegraph
published the following, which is one-of a series of
articles on “ Unorthodox London,” now being issued in
that journal. It contains, perhaps, more truthful infor¬
mation about Spiritualism than has ever before been
published officially by any London daily paper: —
“ To the uninitiated inquirer the line of demarcation
between Swedenborgianism and modern Spiritualism—
or Spiritism, as it is now called—must of necessity be
shadowy arid ill-defined. It would. appear, at first
sight, that the position assumed by. Swedenborg, as the
prophet of the New Jerusalem, Church, would almost
oblige that Church to recognise the so-called revelations
claimed by the Spiritualists. To a certain extent this
is the case: that is, the Swedenborgians are prepared
to admit—what a. great many of us cannot admit—not
only the genuineness of the phenomena, but also their
spiritual source ; nay, they advance a step further, and
even identify the ..communicating spirits. It is here,
indeed, they part company with the professed Spirit¬
ualist, and, approach very nearly, without quite reach¬
ing, the; position assumed by the. ordinary orthodox
mind on the subject—that is, when orthodoxy does not
go .the length of denying the facts altogether. Where
Jffiessjfaets .are, admitted, wholly.ior:‘partially;; IJieom-
■tiqngle usually .appended: is .that)their <soui;ce; is; a; diab.Qr-
lical one.; The Swedenborgians I a'dopt s this j theory in
spirit,[though varying the: letter,rand.couching it in
their own'peculiar phraseology. They , claim finality
for the revelation of .Emanuel'Swedenborg. The Spi¬
ritualists, then, are in the position of. a kind of Sweden-
borgian Nonconformists. The .question of the legitimacy
of Spiritualistic communications has, in fact, gone far
towards forming an open schism in the New Church.
If the Spiritists may be correctly described as Sweden-
borgian Dissenters, the New Church, in its turn, is but
an established, formulated, orthodox Spiritism.
“ The announcement, then, which appeared recently,
that Professor Tafel would lecture at the New Jerusalem
Church, Cross-street, Hatton-garden, on ‘ Mesmerism
and Spiritism, as viewed by the light of the New Jeru¬
salem Church,’ offered an irresistible attraction to one
who, like myself, has made it his business to examine
the nicer shades of religious belief. I must confess
that I expected to find the New Jerusalem Church
thronged with the Spiritualistic celebrities of London.
I have got to know them pretty well by sight; but to
my amazement I did not recognise one in Cross-street,
Hatton-garden. Is it that the Sunday evening services
of Mrs. Emma Hardinge,; at Cleveland Hall, demand
the undivided attention of the faithful; or—gently be
it insinuated—do the Spiritualists lean to £ mutual
admiration’ and avoid the possibility of hearing their
creed roughly handled? They would certainly have
done so had they been present at Cross-street; but, as
I said, there certainly was not a Spiritist of any stand¬
ing there on the occasion of Professor Tafel’s sermon.
“ The congregation was by no means so large as might
have been expected, seeing the sermon had been freely
advertised. Beyond one or two gentlemen armed like
myself with note-books, and seemingly bent on business
rather than, edification, the assembly appeared to consist
of the regular attendants at the church. The service
was exceedingly short, being composed of a few prayers
and two hymns only, after which Professor Tafel
plunged in medias res. It was a new sensation to hear
such a topic broached by one arrayed in the familiar
clerical attire of surplice and bands, though mounted
withal on the rostrum of Nonconformity instead of the
orthodox pulpit. The question could not but occur—
Why do the clergy not handle such topics as these ?
Spiritualism is emphatically a question of the hour, and
has been fairly described by one of its adherents to be
‘ either a gigantic delusion or the most important sub¬
ject that can possibly be broached.’ Gamaliel’s argu¬
ment may be sound enough—that, if the thing be not
from God, it will come to nothing; if it be from God
154
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 15, 1871.
■we must not fight against Him. Still, people have a
perverse habit of thinking, that if a subject is avoided,
it is because it. cannot be grappled with. This, how¬
ever, by the way. Professor Tafel grappled with it
hand to hand, beyond a doubt. He had read, as the
‘lesson from the Word,’ Deuteronomy xviii., which so
emphatically denounces i an enchanter, or a witch, or
a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a
wizard, or a necromancer; ’ and these denunciations he
proceeded at once to apply to the modern Spiritualists.
“ He spoke with alarm of the growing numbers of these
people, whom he alleged to be counted by the hundreds
of thousands. The men of science were aghast. This
tilting of tables, if authenticated, entirely destroyed
their theory of gravitation. These responses of invisible
beings by raps on the table, or by the hand of writing
mediums, distracted the minds of those who believed
that man/was going to rise again with his physical body,
and who located the soul in the interim in some non¬
descript place, either below or above the earth. The
men of science believed in material existence only, and
either denied the facts, or, admitting some of them, said
they were beyond the pale of science, because they could
not be explained by natural causes. In the meantime
the Spiritualists went their way unembarrassed, and
their principles spread more widely day by day. The
‘theologians of the old school’ again, he said, were
powerless. They went to the Bible to prove that it was
wrong to consult diviners, yet they themselves, in the
face of the Bible and of reason, taught the doctrine of
the resurrection of the body. Science and theology were
alike powerless to stem the rising tide of Spiritualism.
The danger had, in one respect, abated of late. Common
sense had begun to judge Spiritualism by its fruits, and
these were anything but satisfactory. It had been
found to have a bad effect on the mental and bodily
health. Nevertheless, a rational explanation and ex¬
hibition of its dangers was still a desideratum. It was
incumbent, then, on the ‘ New Church ’ to supply that
want. The works of Swedenborg bearing on the
question had been written between 1747 and 1772,
just one hundred years ago. The phenomena of modern
Spiritualism were evidently not permitted by God until
the corrective came in the revelations of Swedenborg !
“ The teaching of the New Church, said the Professor,
was that every phenomenon in the natural world is due
to a spiritual cause. All objects in the three kingdoms
of Nature—the mineral and vegetable, as well as the
animal—-are produced and ,animated by corresponding
objects in the spiritual world. Since God was in the
human shape, so all the spiritual world was in the
human form; and the tendency to assume this form was
inscribed on all nature. The New Church taught that
the spiritual world keeps the natural world in order by
influx. The Church, therefore, did not a -priori declare
the phenomena of Spiritualism impossible. It viewed
them in an affirmative state of mind. It believed in
the immortality of the soul—that when the body dies,
the soul enters at once into the spirit world. This spirit
world it believed—-with the Spiritists—to be in and
around the natural world, and therefore, it acknowledged
the possibility of men in this world conversing with the
departed. The New Church, however, held it impossible
to see the departed with the natural eyes. Those only
could see whose eyes were opened by the Lord, and who
were introduced by the Lord into the spirit world.
Emanuel Swedenborg’s eyes were thus opened, and the
Lord Himself so introduced him, commanding him to
write down what he saw.
“ The Professor here went deeply into the arcana of
what is termed general and particular influx, to appre¬
ciate which a previous acquaintance with the works of
the Swedish seer is indispensable. Man he represented
as in equilibria between the influence of angels and
spirits—presumably bad spirits—with his will left free.
This is, in fact, the orthodox position, stated with
technical differences of expression only. In a word,
the revelation of the Spiritists were traced to the (bad)
spirits, and those of the New Church to the angels;
which, of course, every Spiritist would set down as
simply | begging the question.’ Einally, the preacher
dwelt at great length upon Swedenborg’s writings, and
read voluminous extracts to prove the untrustworthy
nature of spiritual communications ; a position which, I
fancy, all but very bigoted Spiritists indeed would
freely concede. The spirits, he remarked, were ‘ fond
of making up stories.’ Swedenborg was | not allowed
to believe them.’ They were always ‘ inventing lies.’
Then, again, man reacted on the communicating spirits,
until those spirits really fancied they were the individuals
they personated. These facts, he remarked, were
written down by Swedenborg one hundred years ago,
when he had little idea how far the ‘ talking with
spirits ’ would extend. The only means of revelation
as to God and the spirit world was the written word.
Every other method was | disorderly.’ Surely it must
have struck the preacher that he was here almost
quoting the ‘theologians of the old school’ and the
‘ men of science ! ’
“ Such, however, is the light in which the New Church
regards modern Spiritism. Mesmerism was not touched,
though included in the announcement. A final ob¬
jection was couched in the somewhat broad assertion,
that almost all Spiritualists held Christ to be mere man;
after which the relations of Spiritualism and the New
Church were summed up thus: Both recognised the
existence of the spirit world in and around the natural
world; be th admitted that man enters the spirit world,
and lives, immediately after his departure from the
natural world. The Spiritualists made the revelations
of spirits their criterion of truth; whereas the New
Church said that there is only one criterion, the Word
of God; and if man studies this prayerfully, he is led
into the ‘state of illustration.’ When new revelation
is required, he said a | vessel ’ was chosen, and the
work was not entrusted to ‘ low spirits.’ Swedenborg’s
mind was prepared from childhood, and, whilst he read
the Scripture, he was so illuminated that he was enabled
to formulate his revealments ‘ in an orderly and rational
manner.’
“As the distinguishing feature of Swedenborg was
unquestionably the cacoethes scribendi, so is his disciple
not altogether free from the cacoethes loquendi. The
sermon was long but lucid, and no analysis can quite
do it justice. I have endeavoured to lay it fairly
before the public, remembering that my office in these
papers is to describe, not to discuss, and so leaving them
to say what amount of ‘ light ’ the New Jerusalem
Church of Emanuel Swedenborg throws on the con¬
fessedly dark—and, to some, the ‘ uncanny ’—subject
of modern Spiritualism.
SCIENCE AND SPIRITUALISM.
The religions of savages, or rather the beliefs of
savages touching the supernatural, which of late years
have attracted so much attention, are to the student of
Spiritualism matter of peculiar interest. From them
are gathered a not unimportant part of that vast accu¬
mulation of testimony borne by all nations and all ages,
from the earliest records of the human race, to the
occurrence of apparitions of the dead. Some minds far
from allowing weight to the belief of savages in this
respect, regard it as telling rather against than in favour
of the alleged facts, but this notion appears to arise
from a confusion of two things entirely distinct. How¬
ever incapable, may be the brains of savages of drawing
correct conclusions from what meets their senses, their
senses themselves are undeniably as acute and as trust¬
worthy as our own, and their belief in apparitions rests
solely on the evidence of their senses, on the simple
fact that, as they affirm, they see them. What adds
greatly to the value of their testimony in this matter is
that from knowledge of the ideas of existing savage
races, we are, as ethnologists have pointed out, enabled
to infer what must have been the ideas prevalent at
the same stage of development in primitive times. From
the fact that savages in the present day believe that
they are visited by spirits of the departed, and on that
ground anticipate a future state of existence, we are
warranted in concluding that such must have been the
belief .of our primeval ancestors. Study of the re¬
ligions of savages, of which so complete an account has
been given by Sir John Lubbock in his work on “ The
Origin-of Civilisation,” affords no doubt abundant proof
of the low and childish nature of the savage idea of a
future state: an idea not connected with hope of reward,
or fear of punishment, not extending further than to
expectation of a certain prolongation of life beyond the
grave. So widely, indeed, does it differ from that idea in
the mind of civilised man, that some observers of savage
fife have not recognised the radical identity of the two,
yet do they differ surely only as the conceptions of a
low mental period must differ from those of one im¬
measurably more advanced, only as 'the rudimental
differs from the developed. Then be it regarded as
founded on fact or on delusion, belief in apparitions of
the dead has been, it appears,—strangely as the words
may fall on some ears,—the starting point of belief in
the immortality of the soul.
Another point of the Spiritualist creed—the belief
that some persons are endowed with an organisation
peculiarly fitting them to enter into communication with
the spirit world—receives support from facts occasionally
turning up, and carelessly noted in fields of scientific
research. Of this an instance occurs in a striking
passage of an eminent writer’s “ Lectures on the Science
of Religion.” After enunciating the opinion that the
influences under which men in primitive times formed
themselves into a people were language and religion,
but that religion was even a more powerful agent than
language—after observing that this opinion is not one
“ of philosophers only, but of historians, and more
particularly of students of the history of law, of whom
those who look below the surface have quickly perceived
that ancient law derives its authority, its force, its very
life from religion,”—Mr. Max Muller proceeds to remark
that “ the belief that the lawgiver enjoyed some closer
intimacy with the Deity than ordinary mortals pervades
the ancient traditions of many nations.” Now, bearing
in mind that in primitive times the term Deity meant
merely spirit, and was applied to the departed spirits of
mighty men as equals of the highest spirits of nature,
how strikingly significant is this observation! Considered
in connexion with the context, it contains recognition
not only that, in the infancy of society certain persons
were held to be in communication with the spirit world,
but that, as the founders of law, they have exercised
the most powerful influence for good over the human
race ; in'a word, as the inevitable deduction from high
authoritative showing, it would surely seem that just
as belief in apparitions of spirits of the departed appears
to have been the starting point of belief in the immor¬
tality of the soul, so reverence for the injunctions of
exalted spirits of the departed, communicated as it was
believed through privileged persons, has been the starting
point of civilisation.
It is gratifying to behold science, while averting her
eye from Spiritualism, still, unconsciously, from her
effulgent lamp, shedding light on that which corroborates
the facts on which it is founded.
It will doubtless be objected, that though scientific
research has produced testimony to the existence, at the
the earliest period, of belief in the supernatural, and
to its important action on the progress of mankind,
it has yet adduced no proof of the reality of the alleged
facts on which that belief is grounded. The questions
however arise: Can belief, of which the results have been
thus beneficial, have been caused by imposture and
delusion ? Is there indeed in the false such force for
good ? Is there not something in those results which
gives additional weight to the testimony of thousands of
educated, and of not a few eminent persons, as to phe¬
nomena proceeding in the present day from the spirit
world ? Something suggesting with peculiar force the
idea that, in the words of an earnest truthseeker,
“ Perhaps, nay, probably, some mystic law, centring
deep in our nature, and touching far distant spheres of
‘ untried being,’ runs through these undefined pheno¬
mena; which, if it ever be ascertained, will throw not
a little light upon the past beliefs and actions of mankind,
perhaps add to our assurance that there is an immaterial
and immortal part within us, and a world of relation
beyond that now pressing upon our senses.” These
words are those of one but just departed from a life of
long and eminently useful labours; of one who for many
years had investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism
with close attention, and with characteristic freedom
from passion and prejudice : they are the words, in his
admirable paper on “ Testimony,” of Doctor Robert
Chambers. J. H. D.
SPIRIT LIGHTS.
At every large spirit-circle which sits in the dark,
there are almost sure to be two or three observers
present, who experience symptons of seeing-mediumship,
and see lights of more or less brilliancy flashing to and
fro in different parts of the room. There are some
mediums, however, in whose presence luminous phe¬
nomena are produced, visible to the normal eye, and
seen by all the observers at once; manifestations of
this kind have recently been common at the seances of
the well-known medium, Mrs. Everitt. Recently we
saw these lights. Sometimes they were stationary, and
then they usually appeared two or three feet above her
head; they sometimes first became visible as a mere
point, and gradually enlarged to the size of a shilling,
then contracted again and disappeared, all in the course
of perhaps one-third of a minute—sometimes more,
sometimes less. In most cases they were in rapid
motion, and not stationary, so as to produce the optical
illusion of being a streak, instead of a spot of light.
Sometimes these streaks or flashes were only three or
four inches long, and sometimes a yard or two, making
graceful curves, from within a few inches of the ceiling,
down to near the centre of the table, which was sur¬
rounded by perhaps a dozen observers. The lights were
unaccompanied by the slightest noise or smell of any
kind. They had a lambent phosphorescent appearance,
but gave off not the slightest trace of smoke, either
luminous or otherwise, and they had a cold bluish-white
colour. They cast no illumination upon any material
object; perhaps they did not approach near enough to
any such object to do so. Mr. Everitt says they are
reflected by a looking-glass, when one is in the room
and in the right position. Although they were visible,
and brightly visible at times, to everybody present,
some saw them before and after others, and to such
seers they were larger and more brilliant when they
reached their maximum size. This may indicate that
what is called the “ normal state ” of human vision
may not be a fixed point, but a sliding scale.
Some members of Mr. Stokes’s circle, 29, Kings-
down-road, Upper Holloway, told us a few days ago,
that Mrs. Everitt was once at a seance there, that the
lights were produced, but presently one of them gave
a brilliant flash which lit up the room, accompanied by
a slight explosive noise, of a crackling nature. John
Watt, the spirit, afterwards made his voice heard, and
said that the spirits around Miss Kate Stokes, after
seeing the lights made, tried to make them too, and by
accident produced the explosion; the conditions whereby
the lights were produced were such, he said, that the
accident attending the experiment might have injured
Mrs. Everitt.
So far, there is nothing very strange in supposing
Apeil 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
that beings who have some powers over matter which
we have not, can make lights which shall be visible to
the physical eye. But now comes an element of per¬
plexity. Mr. E. Bird, of 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton, is a seeing medium, and seems likely to prove
to be a very good test-medium. When the lights seen
at Mrs. Everitt’s circle were described to him, he said
that he always saw such lights before he saw spirits.
The lights appeared to him to be openings in a dark
atmosphere ; they grew larger and larger, till at last, in
the illuminated opening, he saw spirits. Some of them
were of exquisite beauty, but at a great distance, and
in the brightest part of the light; but those nearer to
him were commonplace sort of people, and some of
them the very reverse of those he saw in the distance.
Now as spirits, by acting upon the organs of vision,
often give seeing-mediums symbolical teachings, by im¬
pressing picture-scenes upon their minds, these constant
experiences of Mr. Bird may have been meant to teach
him that the lower'spirits are nearer the earth and
nearer to earthly conditions, while the higher ones are
further removed from us. But the remarkable thing is
that, in a letter recently published in The Spiritualist,
Miss Nisbet, of Glasgow, told how one of the lights, pro¬
duced through Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship, was seen to
expand into a spirit-form. Now Miss Nisbet and Mr.
Bird have made their statements independently, neither
at the time having any knowledge of the experiences of
the other.
ME. HOME IN RUSSIA.
Me. Home returned to London again a few days ago, from
St. Petersburg, where the Emperor of Russia attended some
of his seances. The Standard a day or two ago published
much newspaper abuse about him, written by the St. Peters¬
burg correspondent of that journal, who managed to pick up
some hearsay rumours about what had been going on. The
following is a portion of the abuse in question :—
“ The success he had met with in the salons of St. Peters-
burgh appears to have turned his head. Judging the Russians
by those who believed in him, he expected to find them all
equally credulous, and in an evil hour he offered to exhibit
his manifestations before a committee of scientific men. The
challenge was accepted, the committee stipulating that the
locality should be chosen by them; that instead of an ordinary
table one of glass (should be substituted, and that Home
should not enter the room before the time fixed for the experi¬
ments. To these conditions Home consented. Six gentlemen,
principally professors, met in a room prepared for the purpose
at the University of St. Petersburgh. Home came at the
appointed hour, expressed himself satisfied with the arrange¬
ments, and the party formed the chain round the table,
and waited patiently for the usual rappings. A
lamp, with a powerful reflector, prevented the possi¬
bility of any trickery under the table passing un¬
noticed, and for some time there was no indication of
the appearance of the spirits. At length Home pretended
to be aware of their presence by the wavering light of a
candle on the table; but this was explained as being caused
by the ventilator, which was immediately closed, and the
candle burned steadily. Then he declared that the arrival of
the spirits was announced by a peculiar rushing noise, which
was heard by all present; but on searching for the cause, it
was found that a hot air pipe had been left open, and on its
being shut, the noise ceased. Rather out of countenance by
the failure of the experiment thus far, Home next drew atten¬
tion to the rapidity of his pulse; but this was shown to be the
effect of the heat of the room and the excitement of straining
the attention for such a length of time; moreover, one of the
gentlemen present had exactly the same number of pulsations.
Though baffled and confused, Home did not wish to give in,
and offered to change the weight of any object in the room.
For this the committee were prepared. A pail was placed in
a pair of scales, and there it remained without moving the
balance in the slightest degree. These experiments took up a
great deal of time ; everybody was tired; the trial was at an
end; but, not wishing to acknowledge himself beaten, Home
offered to meet the committee again on a future day. It must
not be supposed that Home’s dupes are merely fashionable
loungers in want of excitement; some of them are superior
men, and many are reasonable enough on other matters, but
when they talk of Spiritualism they really seem to have taken
leave of their senses. Home’s first wife was a Russian, and he
is again going to marry into a Russian family.
Assuming that there were some fragments of foundation for
the foregoing story, the reason of the failure is plain, and may
be gathered from the information about “ conditions ” given
to Professor Tyndall on another page. Supposing some of
these men to have been intellectual “ Gradgrinds,” with more
cf the porcupine or the fox than of the dove in their natures,
what sympathy could there have been between them or their
spiritual surroundings, and a medium of an affectionate
nature, with a taste for poetry and flowers.
Here is Mr. Home’s reply to the newspaper abuse, which
reply was published in the Standard:—
“ Sie,—In a letter headed ‘ Russia (from our own corres¬
pondent), St. Petersburgh, April 7,’ and published by you this
evening, I find myself spoken of in a manner so utterly at
variance with the truth that I must request the publication of
this my reply.
“ I did propose to meet some scientific gentlemen, but it
was my stipulation not to see the room previous to the seance.
It is untrue that ‘ a lamp was arranged with a powerful
reflector ’ (not that I would in the least have objected to any
such arrangement). It is untrue that I or any one ‘ pretended
to be aware of any presence from the wavering light of a
candle.’ It is untrue that I, or any one ‘pretended to be
aware of the arrival of the spirits by a peculiar rushing noise,
which, on search being made, was found to proceed from a
hot-air pipe being left open.’ It is untrue that I offered to
change the weight of any object in the room, and that a pail
was placed on scales.
“ I am not certain that the latter part of his letter may not
be treated as libel; that it is an unwarranted and most
gross falsehood is certain.
“ I had a sapphire ring presented to me by his Majesty the
Emperor, and one of trifling value from an old friend. In the
latter was an emerald worth some two or three pounds, and
this is the only erherald I had.
“ I had remained in Russia six weeks longer than I intended,
and for four weeks had accepted no invitations excepting with
a proviso, my presence being required elsewhere.
“ I left with the understanding that I am to meet the same
gentlemen (one of whom is Professor Butleron, my future
brother-in-law) next winter in St. Petersburgh, and I may be
allowed to express a hope that you will by that time have
found a correspondent who can furnish you with the truth
when he writes, and who will not insult men of whom he
knows nothing.—Your most obedient servant,
“ D. D. Home.
20, North Audley-street, Grosvenor-square, April 13.
SPIRITUALISM IN WOOD GREEN.
(Abi idged and amended from last Saturday’s North Londoner.')
A fortnight ago, at a meeting of the Wood-green Literary
Society, the subject chosen was that of ‘ Spiritualism.’ Mr. Rees
presided. Although the general rule is to hear the positive side
prior to the negative, yet on this occasion the reverse was adopted.
Mr. Townsend opened the subject by reading his paper against
“ Spiritualism.” He gave copious extracts similar to those
contained in The Spiritualist, and other publications of the
class. The passages translated by Mason, from the Greek,
respecting, man being a triune being, were adduced. According
to that idea man possesses a body, soul,’ and spirit. The body
is material; the soul and spirit are immaterial, and as distinct
in nature from the body as hydrogen is different from oxygen ;
but whether man is so constituted as to be able to obtain a
glimpse of the spiritual world is a question which has occupied
the attention of men in all ages. In nearly all the ancient
civilised countries Spiritualism had been believed in ; it is even
carried out at the present time in India, but there they practice
“ devil worship.” We may account for the origin of Spiritualism
from the time that, in the days when the angels mingled their blood
with that of the human race, mankind may have been raised to a
standard which enabled them to hold communion with spiritual
beings; that standard man has never reached since nor ever will
again. Although astronomy kept its watch for ages over Chal¬
dea, and the priesthood seemed long to have retained some of the
wisdom of the angels, yet, as to the apparent supernatural powers
possessed by the priests may they not be ascribed to other causes?
True, diseases of the epileptic class were oftentimes cured without
the aid of medicine, but is it not a fact that magnetism has occa¬
sionally a most beneficial effect on patients of this class ? The
Spiritualism of modem times, however, appears somewhat different
to the Spiritualism of other ages. At the seances it is alleged
that the mediums can and do converse with the spirits of those
who have passed from earth; information can also be obtained
of the “ hidden life beyond the grave.” Writers inform us that
modern Spiritualism arose in New York in 1834. At the present
time there are said to be from five to eleven millions of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States. In 1855 modern Spiritualism was
introduced into England, where we believe it is spreading, if we
may judge of it from its increasing literature and places of
meeting. The paper then went irito a description of the effects
produced by electro-biology, animal magnetism, and clairvoyance.
The writer ridiculed the idea of the moving of substances or the
elevating of tables by spirit power ; as for spirit-painting, it was
absurd to think that spirits would come on the earth to make
sketches, they might do something more useful. Again, Spiri¬
tualism was said to be useful in rousing the sceptic, but how is
this to be done when the Great Teacher has said—“ If they hear
not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though
one rose from the dead.” It may be asked if it is right to con¬
sult spirits. He (the writer) would say, “ No.” God in His
word forbids it—“ Regard not them that have familiar spirits.”
He did not think Spiritualism was necessary, nor did he think
that God’s Word approved of it. He therefore entered his protest
against it.
On account of the indisposition of Mr. J. T. Taylor, that gentle¬
man’s paper on the positive side of Spiritualism was read by the
hon. secretary (Mr. Sutcliffe). To those unacquainted with it,
the alleged phenomena might appear untrue, indeed many per¬
sons judged of the possibility of a thing from their own standard
of knowledge. When the sailor told his mother that he had seen
a flying fish, the old lady at once rejected the assertion as impos¬
sible, but when he spoke of their having fished up the wheels of
Pharaoh’s chariot in the Red Sea, she at once believed it as being,
in a sense, something within her own experience. The number
of flying fishes in the world had been very numerous ; geology,
astronomy, indeed almost every discovery in science had been
accepted by the world in the same spirit as Jack’s mother accepted
the intimation that there were fishes which occasionally made an
aerial voyage. Sir Walter Scott ridiculed the idea of supposing
that a town could be lighted by gas ; and he, the essayist, had
heard Sir David Brewster argue against the possibility of ob¬
taining a correct portrait by means of the camera obscura. In
like manner electricity and spectrum analysis had had their day
of adversity, and Spiritualism was now passing through the same
phase. He spoke at some length on the laws and value of testi¬
mony, and the reasonableness of accepting or distrusting the evi¬
dence of the senses, and referred to Faraday’s assertion that there
was no trusting our senses unless the judgment had been largely
cultivated for their guidance, showing that if this principle were
adhered to in everyday life, there would exist no such a thing
as commercial or social confidence. He also spoke of Faraday's
principle in the investigation of phenomena, viz., that before pro¬
ceeding to consider any question involving physical principles, we
must set out with clear ideas of the possible and the impossible.
But if nothing were to be investigated until its possibility were
known, by what means was its possibility to be known unless by
investigation ? In the case of a table being lifted from the floor
without the contact of the hands of any of those surrounding
it, Faraday would say that as it was impossible, therefore it never
happened, no matter how many witnesses attested the contrary.
Had they been trained to habits of scientific observation, they,
would have found that the table was not raised because it could
not be. He then proceeded to give them the testimony of some
of the first scientific men of the day in support of the proposi¬
tion that the alleged Spiritual phenomena were real, and were
not the product either of hallucination or imposture. Mr. William
Crookes, F.R. S., the editor of the Chemical News and the Quar¬
terly Journal of Science, had borne public testimony to its reality.
Mr. Cromwell Varley, whose discoveries in electrical science are
of the most brilliant and useful character was cited as one who
had repeatedly testified to the truth of Spiritualism. Lord Broug¬
ham, Professor De Morgan, Dr. Robert Chambers, Mr. Alfred
Wallace, the naturalist, Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall, William and
Mary Howitt, Thackeray, Lord Lyndhurst, Lord Adare, the Earl
of Dunraven, Archbishop Whately, N. W. Senior, late Master in
Chancery, and many other names of persons eminent in science,
literature, and art were mentioned among those who had not
merely given in their adhesion to the new faith, but who had
written in its behalf, and quotations were given from the writings
of each of those mentioned. Mr. Taylor had often seen Spiri¬
tualistic phenomena of the most astounding nature; he had not
merely seen material bodies of the most ponderous character
freely moved about without being so much as touched by any
one in the room, but he had been present when, without any con¬
tact of any of them, elaborate drawings and writings of a high
character had been produced in an incredibly short space of time.
These had been done in presence of artists, and scientific and
literary men of the highest reputation, who could not possibly be
deceived as to the reality of what was taking place. These
things he had seen repeatedly, and what was more, they could be
seen by every person present who desired it. Concerning me¬
diums, many spoke loudly because three or four made a profes¬
sion of it and took payment for their services. But what of the
thousands of spiritual teachers of another kind, who took payment
and high payment too for their services ? Ought they all to
descant on spiritual things for the mere love of it ? If they
asked the Archbishop of Canterbury for his opinion of such a
doctrine, it would be given in no uncertain manner. “ Much,”
he said, “ has been said concerning the suspicion that must neces¬
sarily attach to dark seances, and some have unthinkingly averred
that what has been alleged to have been effected or performed in
the dark, could, if it were true, also be done in the light. Those,
however, who make such a statement have but a very superficial
acquaintance with the nature and power of light. In. the mean¬
time and pending the efforts now being made to discover the law
under which spirits can, with the majority of physical mediums,
manifest better in darkness than in light, let me observe that in
such a matter of fact science as chemistry, light is recognised as
a powerful agent in inducing change. For example, if I form
iodide of silver in a room from which light is excluded, it will
differ in a most important degree from that formed in even a
feebly lighted room ; if I mix together chlorine and olefiant
gas in a glass globe or bottle, they will remain together so
long as they are kept in the dark ; but the instant that light,
even that from a luminous taper, is allowed to fall upon the mix¬
ture, they combine chemically with a loud explosion like the
report of a pistol. If pure chloride of silver be sealed in a glass-
tube, and then be exposed to light, it will acquire a violet colour ;
but if it be taken in a dark room, it will regain its white colour;
even the influence of a beam of sunlight in putting out a fire is
recognised by many. Now seeing that these things are so, how
absurd it is for people to prate with a volubility in the inverse
ratio of their knowledge, about the conditions under which spiri¬
tual force should be exerted. The superficial wits of fifty years
ago indulged in unrestrained merriment, accepted by some as
reason, at the bare idea of the light radiated from a human
figure ever being able to record the appearance of that figure,
and yet photography is now a recognised and widely practised
branch of science. Some experiments of a scientific nature made
by me, warrant me in asserting that it is by no means impossible
that the presence of a spirit form, either in a dark or a light
room, may yet be rendered visible to the ordinary eye of sensei
The reason for this will be discovered in the following, to which
I invite special attention. Light, as many of you are aware, pos¬
sesses a threefold property: that of rendering material bodies
luminous, that of heating, and that of inducing chemical change.
Now it is possible to so separate these properties as to fill a room
With one to the exclusion of the others. For example, I could
flood a chamber with light taken directly from the sun, which
should be quite luminous, permitting us to see every object as we
could outside of the house, and yet which should have all the
chemical power entirely abstracted. No chemical phenomenon
depending upon the agency of light, such as the taking of a pho¬
tograph, could possibly take place in such a light. Then, con¬
versely, I can flood a chamber with light which to our eyes shall
be total darkness. The room may be so dark as to render
it utterly impossible to distinguish any object whatever, even a
white object on a black ground, and yet that room shall be so
luminous in a chemical or actinic sense as to permit the persons
sitting there to be photographed. To the eye of the camera the
room shall be full of light. I think it very probable that the room
in which a dark seance is held may be lighted by light which to the
officiating spirits may be darkness, but which shall permit us to see
all that transpires, and when I next have leisure to resume
my investigations into the physics of Spiritualism, I purpose try¬
ing some experiments which I expect will prove exhaustive.”
One great use of Spiritualism was the affording of demonstrable
evidence that there really was a life beyond this—a kind of evi¬
dence that, at the present time, was much wanted, even in the
Churches, in which there was much practical materialism, and
the majority of the ministers of which were utterly incompetent
to grapple with the great questions of the day. A little Latin
and less Greek were but poor weapons for the man who had to
parry the thrusts of Huxley, Darwin, and thinkers of that class.
If they were wise, they would accept the powerful aid of Spiri-'
tualism, which rightly understood and used, might yet restore to
them the influence as teachers that they had now undoubtedly
lost, and would permit the occupant of the pulpit to descant with
a power that is now unknown, on the problems of man’s destiny
and happiness. In the course of the paper, the essayist instituted
a comparison between the Spiritualistic phenomena recorded in
the Bible, and those taking place around us at present, and
directed attention to the marked similarity that existed between
them. Spiritualism taught that God inspires men now as in
former times—that He is not exhausted, and that religion con¬
sisted not in words, but in acts ; that man’s state hereafter
depends upon his actions, and not upon his theological belief.
The interest aroused was such that an adjourned meeting was
resolved upon for the purpose of discussion, and at that meeting
Messrs. Rees, Fitt, Emerson, Mackenzie, Orr, Taylor, and
Townsend, spoke. A report of the discussion will be found in
the North Londoner, of April 8th, and that paper remarks—■
‘‘The arguments on the Spiritualistic side seemed to carry weight.”
We are informed that in consequence of the vigorous action of
Mr. Taylor, several of the preachers in Wood-green have since
been delivering sermons against Spiritualism.
Mr. J. J. Moese, trance-medium, lectured last Thursday
night, under spirit influence, on “ The Philosophy of Spiritual¬
ism,” to the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists,” Corporation-
row, Clerkenwell. The public were admitted free.
The Zouave Jacob.—The present address of the “Zouave
Jacob ” is 39, Dorset-street, Portman-square, W. He will pro¬
bably return to Paris as soon as the throat-cutting there, and
other murderous work, resulting from selfish legislation and
popular ignorance, are over. We have not heard of any-
sudden and remarkable cures effected by him in London, such'
as Dr. Newton performed, but in some cases speedy recovery
has resulted. For instance, see the letter by Mr. Collen, of
St. Alban’s, in another column.
156
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Apeil 15, 1871.
PROFESSOR TYNDALL AT A SPIRIT CIRCLE.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENTIFIC MEN.
Professor Tyndall has just brought out a new book,
published by Messrs. Longman, entitled “ Fragments of
Science for Unscientific People,” in which he devotes a
chapter to “ Science and Spirits.” The said chapter is
in fact a reprint of an article he published several years
ago in the Reader newspaper, and we now quote it here
in its entirety, making comments as we go along:—
“ Their refusal to investigate ‘ spiritual phenomena ’ is often
urged as a reproach to scientific men. I here propose to give
a sketch of an attempt to apply to the ‘ phenomena ’ those
methods of inquiry which are found available in dealing with
natural truth. •
“ Some time ago, when the spirits were particularly active
in this country, a celebrated philosopher was invited, or rather
entreated, by one of his friends to meet and question them.
He had, however, already made their acquaintance, and did
not wish to renew it. I had not been so privileged, and he
therefore kindly arranged a transfer of the invitation to me.
The spirits themselves named the time of meeting, and I was
conducted to the place at the day and hour appointed.”
The gentleman who entreated Faraday to attend a
seance, was not a Spiritualist, but Sir Emerson Tennent,
F.R.S. Faraday, great and good man as he was, un¬
fortunately for his historical reputation, wrote an uncivil
and ungentlemanly letter at Mr. Home, to Sir Emerson
Tennent, of which letter Mr. Home took no notice.
Dr. Tyndall, however, is here speaking of some other
seance.
WHAT IS MEANT BY “HARMONY” AT SPIRIT CIRCLES.
“ Absolute unbelief in the facts was by no means my condi¬
tion of mind. On the contrary, I thought it probable that
some physical principle, not evident to the Spiritualists them¬
selves, might underlie their manifestations. Extraordinary
effects are produced by the accumulation of small impulses.
Galileo set a heavy pendulum in motion by the well-timed
puffs of his breath. Ellicot set one clock going by the ticks of
another, even when the two clocks were separated by a wall.
Preconceived notions can, moreover, vitiate, to an extraordi¬
nary degree, the testimony of even veracious persons. Hence
my desire to witness those extraordinary phenomena, the
existence of which seemed placed beyond a doubt by the
known veracity of those who had witnessed and described
them.”
The latter statement is a graceful admission. As a
part of the instruction and education we intend to impart
to Dr. Tyndall in this article, on the branch of natural
philosophy known as Spiritualism, we begin by telling
him that a knowledge of the laws of synchronous
vibrations is useful, analogically, in the investigation of
Spiritual phenomena. When the spirits who wish to
communicate are mentally and spiritually “ in harmony”
with the spirit and mind of the medium, they can com¬
municate with ease; the more they differ from him in
nature, the greater is their difficulty in communicating,
and the more pain do they inflict upon him by the
process. If the persons in the circle be also of the
same spiritual and mental nature as the medium, then
do “ harmonious ” communications flow with greater
ease; also, good physical manifestations are more easily
produced. The presence of one or two antagonistic
persons may not much weaken the manifestations,
except with some media, like Mrs. Everitt for instance; j
others, like Mrs. Mary Marshall the younger, are not
so sensitive to repelling influences. Mr. Home is very
sensitive to them.
THE RELATIVE POSITIONS OF MEDIA, INVESTIGATORS,
AND SPIRITS.
“The meeting took place at a private residence in the
neighbourhood of London. My host, his intelligent wife, and
a gentleman who may be called X., were in the house when I
arrived. I was informed that the ‘ medium ’ had not yet
made her appearance ; that she was sensitive, and might re¬
sent suspicion. It was therefore requested that the tables and
chairs should be examined before her arrival, in order to be
assured that there was no trickery in the furniture. This was
done ; and I then first learned that my hospitable host had
arranged that the se<mce should be a dinner-party. This was
to me an unusual form of investigation ; but I accepted it, as
one of the accidents of the occasion.
“ The ‘ medium ’ arrived—a delicate-looking young lady,
who appeared to have suffered much from ill-health. I took
her to dinner and sat close beside her. Facts were absent for
a considerable time, a series of very wonderful narratives sup¬
plying their place. The duty of belief on testimony was fre¬
quently insisted on.”
The medium was “ sensitive.” So are some reflecting
galvanometers used by physical philosophers, and if
the needle be disturbed, the operator must wait till it
settles at zero before he uses the instrument to get
accurate indications.
It is bad policy to narrate wonderful stories to
enquirers about to attend a seance, so as to unduly raise
their expectations; it is best to tell them that the
manifestations are not under human control, and that,
perhaps at the coming sitting, the spirits may not be
able, or may not choose, to manifest themselves.
Possibly there are persons living to whom certain
spirits see no reason why they should trouble them¬
selves to demonstrate, scientifically, the reality of a life
beyond the grave ; many new attendants at circles talk
as if it were a great favour that they should be present
to accept such an enormous boon. Once we were
present when an important gentleman of this tempera¬
ment put, in an authoritative way, many questions
which he had prepared in writing beforehand, to the
spirit “ John King.” John, who slightly loses his temper
sometimes, said, “ Shall I give you a piece of advice ? ”
“Yes,” was the reply. “ Hold your tongue,” said
John, and he took no notice of the important gentleman
all the rest of the evening. There are some of Dr.
Tyndall’s associates in the Royal Society, as well as out
of it, who are perfectly well aware, from personal
knowledge, of the existence of the John King aforesaid,
as a disembodied spirit. Whether they express their
knowledge is another matter. Some of them would,
perhaps, put on a look of blank unconsciousness if
questioned on the subject, and speak very learnedly
about a “ new force ”—which speaks with an audible
voice, sometimes of deafening intensity, and, in rare
instances, with a “ volume ” much the same as if the
bellows of a cathedral organ took the place of
lungs.
As Spiritualism can give scientific evidence to
enquirers, to prove its facts, there is no necessity to say
anything to uninformed novices about the duty of
belief on testimony.
THOUGHT-READING.
“ X. appeared to be a chosen spiritual agent, and told us
many surprising things. He affirmed that, when he took a
pen in his hand, an influence ran from his shoulder down¬
wards, and impelled him to write oracular sentences. I
listened for a time, offering no observation. ‘ And now,’ con¬
tinued X., ‘ this power has so risen as to reveal to me the
thoughts of others. Only this morning I told a friend what
he was thinking of, and what he intended to do during the
day.’ Here, I thought, is something that can be at once
tested. I said immediately to X.—‘ If you wish to win to
your cause an apostle, who will proclaim your principles to
the world without fear, tell me what I am now thinking of.’
X. reddened, and did not tell me my thought.”
Dr. Tyndall is unfortunate in writing about a scien¬
tific subject on which, he has no knowledge. Many of
the difficulties in the way of giving him what he asked
are perfectly well known, but would require a column
of space to explain. Here is one difficulty as a sample.
The spirits around Dr. Tyndall—and he, like everybody
else, has plenty about him—may have been perfectly
invisible to the spirits around the medium, and living
in altogether a different mental and spiritual sphere.
If so, how could they get at the medium ?
IS IT RELIABLE?
“ Some time previously I had visited Baron Reichenbach, in
Vienna, and I now asked the young lady who sat beside me,
whether she could see any of the curious things which he
describes—the light emitted by crystals, for example ? Here
is the conversation which followed, as extracted from my
notes, written on the day following the stance.
“ Medium—‘ Oh, yes ; but I see light around all bodies.’
“ I—‘ Even in perfect darkness?’
“ Medium—‘ Yes ; I see luminous atmospheres round all
people. The atmosphere which surrounds Mr. R. C. would fill
this room with light.’
“ I—‘ You are aware of the effects ascribed by Baron
Reichenbach to magnets ?’
“ Medium—‘ Yes; but a magnet makes me terribly ill.’
“ I—‘ Am I to understand that, if this room were perfectly
dark, you could tell whether it contained a magnet, without
being informed of the fact V
“ Medium—‘ I should know of its presence on entering the
room.’
“I—‘How?’
“ Medium—‘ I should be rendered instantly ill.’
“ I—‘ How do you feel to-day ? ’
“ Medium—‘ Particularly well; I have not been so well for
months.’
“ I—‘ Then may I ask you whether there is, at the present
moment, a magnet in my possession?’
| The young lady looked at me, blushed, and stammered,
‘No; I am not en rapport with you.’
“ 1 sat at her right hand, and a left-hand pochet within six
inches of her person contained a magnet.''
Assuming the absence of error in this report of a
conversation, tbe medium was a little loose in her state¬
ments.
the Value of scientific education.
“ Our host here deprecated discussion, as it ‘ exhausted the
medium.’ The wonderful narratives were resumed ; but I had
narratives of my own quite as wonderful. These spirits, in¬
deed, seemed clumsy creations, compared with those with
which my own researches had made me familiar. I therefore
began to match the wonders related to me by other wonders.
A lady present discoursed on spiritual atmospheres, which she
could see as beautiful colours when she closed her eyes. I
professed myself able to see similar colours, and more than
that, to be able to see the interior of my own eyes. The
medium affirmed that she could see actual waves of light
coming from the sun. I retorted that men of science could
tell the exact number of waves emitted in a second, and also
their exact length. The medium spoke of the performances of
the spirits on musical instruments. I said that such perform¬
ance was gross, in comparison with a kind of music which had
been discovered some time previously by a scientific man.
Standing at a distance of twenty feet from a jet of gas, he
could command the flame to emit a melodious note ; it would
obey, and continue its song for hours. So loud was the music
emitted by the gas-flame, that it might be heard by an
assembly of a thousand people. These were acknowledged to
be as great marvels as any of those of spiritdom. The spirits
were then consulted, and I was pronounced to be a first-class
medium.”
This is the very best paragraph in Professor Tyndall’s
article, and the one of which he will be least ashamed
when he has more knowledge. He, and men like him,
can teach most Spiritualists a very great deal, just as
Spiritualists can give him, and men like him, very much
which they require. Some dozens of Dr. Tyndall’s
listeners on the red benches of the Royal Institution,
already oscillate between his lectures and those of
the redoubtable John King and other spirits; such
listeners have many a quiet laugh at the want of
knowledge of the learned lecturer, whenever he makes
allusions to the absurdity of the spirits playing such
irreverent pranks with the respectable old law of
gravitation.
WHAT DR. TYNDALL DID “ NOT ” DO AT A SPIRIT CIRCLE.
“ During this conversation a low knocking was heard from
time to time under the table. These were the spirits’ knocks.
I was informed that one knock, in answer to a question, meant
‘ No ;’ that two knocks meant ‘ Not yet;’ and that three
knocks meant ‘ Yes.’ In answer to the question whether I
was a medium, the response was three brisk and vigorous
knocks. I noticed that the knocks issued from a particular
locality, and therefore requested the spirits to be good enough
to answer from another corner of the table. They did not
comply ; but I was assured that they would do it, and much
more by-and-bye. The knocks continuing, I turned a wine¬
glass upside down, and placed my ear upon it, as upon a
stethescope. The spirits seemed disconcerted by the act;
they lost their playfulness, and did not quite recover it for a
considerable time.”
So Dr. Tyndall beard knocks coming from a table
under his nose, without finding out where they origina¬
ted. Such is scientific investigation.
If there is one thing firmly established in Spiritualism,
it is that the sitters at a circle should be “passive
observers,” but they may be as intelligent as they
please. Yet for want of this elementary knowledge, ;
Dr. Tyndall sat trying all kinds of clever things—
turning wine glasses into stethoscopes, and wagging his
legs, as we shall see further on.
a delicate part of the story.
“ Somewhat weary of the proceedings, I once threw myself
back against my chair and gazed listlessly out of the window.
While thus engaged, the table was rudely pushed. Attention
was drawn to the wine, still oscillating in the glasses, and I ■
was asked whether that was not convincing. I readily granted
the fact of motion, and began to feel the delicacy of my
position. There were several pairs of arms upon the table,
and several pairs of legs under it; but how was I, without
offence, to express the conviction which I really entertained ?”
If he thought it to be unconscious muscular action,”
or anything else unconscious, there was no difficulty in
saying so. Really, in these days of libel actions, he and
Messrs. Longman had better be cautious, and consult
Mr. Spottiswoode before printing sentences like this.
A REMARKABLE BUZZING NOISE.
“ To ward off the difficulty, I again turned a wine-glass up¬
side down and rested my ear upon it. The rim of the glass
was not level, and the hair on touching it, caused it to
vibrate, and produce a peculiar buzzing sound. A perfectly
candid and warm-hearted old gentleman at the opposite side
of the table, whom I may call A., drew attention to the
sound, and expressed his entire belief that it was spiritual.
I, however, informed him that it was the moving hair acting
on the glass. The explanation was not well received ; and
X., in a tone of severe pleasantry, demanded whether it was
the hair that had moved the table. The promptness of my
negative probably satisfied him that my notion was a very
different one.’’
Professor Tyndall will shortly give a series of lectures
at the Royal Institution on “ Sound.” Should he then
repeat this experiment, and with the hair of his head
make a wine-glass buzz like a humble bee, the per¬
formance will be viewed with breathless interest.
THE MECHANICAL POWER EXERTED BY SPIRITS.
S The superhuman power of the spirits was next dwelt upon.
The strength of man, it was stated, was unavailing in opposi¬
tion to theirs. No human power could prevent the table from
moving when they pulled it.”
This statement is not accurate. Is Dr. Tyndall
quite sure that he reported it correctly ? Usually the
spirit power in this way is very weak. With very good
physical media it is common enough for spirits to pull (or
move) objects with a force equivalent, say, to ten or fifteen
pounds. In some very rare and exceptional cases much
greater force than this has been exerted by disembodied
spirits.
WHAT DR. TYNDALL “ DID ” DO AT A SPIRIT CIRCLE.
“ During the evening this pulling of the table occurred, or
rather was attempted, three times. Twice the table moved
when my attention was withdrawn from it; on a third occa¬
sion, I tried whether the act could be provoked by an assumed
air of inattention. Grasping the table firmly between my
knees, I threw myself back in the chair, and waited, with
eyes fixed on vacancy, for the pull. It came. For some seconds
it was pull spirit, hold muscle ; the muscle, however, pre¬
vailed, and the table remained at rest. Up to the present
moment this interesting fact is known only to the particular
spirit in question and myself.
“ A species of metal scene-painting, with which my own
pursuits had long rendered me familiar, was employed to
figure the changes and distribution of spiritual power. The
spirits were provided with atmospheres, which combined with
and interpenetrated each other, considerable ingenuity being
shown in demonstrating the necessity of time in effecting the
adjustment of the atmospheres. In fact, just as in science,
the senses, time, and space constituted the conditions of the
phenomena. A re-arrangement of our positions was proposed
and carried out; and soon afterwards my attention was drawn
to a scarcely sensible vibration on the part of the table.
Several persons were leaning on the table at the time, and I
asked permission to touch the medium’s hand. ‘ Oh, I know
I tremble,’ was her reply. Throwing one leg across the other,
I accidentally nipped a muscle, and produced thereby an in¬
voluntary vibration of the free leg. This vibration, I knew
must be communicated to the floor, and thence to the chairs
of all present. I therefore intentionally promoted it. My
attention was promptly drawn to the motion ; and a gentle¬
man beside me, whose value as a witness I was particularly
desirous to test, expressed his belief that it was out of the
compass of human power to produce so strange a tremor. ‘ I
believe,’ he added earnestly, ‘ that it is entirely the spirits’
April 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
157
work.’ ‘ So do I,’ added with heat, the candid and warm¬
hearted old gentleman A. 4 Why, sir,’ he continued, ‘ I feel
them at this moment shaking my chair.’ I stopped the
motion of the leg. 4 Now, sir,’ A. exclaimed,4 they are gone.’
I began again, and A. once more ejaculated. I could, how¬
ever, notice that there were doubters present, who did not
quite know what to think of the manifestations. I saw their
perplexity ; and, as there was sufficient reason to believe that
the disclosure of the secret would simply provoke anger, I
kept it to myself.”
Professor Tyndall was fortunate, witli his absence of
knowledge of what takes place at spirit circles, in
himself not only producing a manifestation which really
does occur at seances, but in misleading experts.
Sometimes these vibrations extend to the ceiling. Can
Dr. Tyndall do that by “muscle-nipping?” People
unacquainted with Spiritualism often speak with the
easy flow of eloquence, incidental to want of knowledge
of facts, about the frequency with which the manifes¬
tations are produced by spirits in the body ; therefore
it will be very satisfactory to them to be able for once
to prove their statements, by quoting the above piece of
undeniable evidence.
Let not the inference be drawn, however, that all
persons connected with the Spiritual movement are
immaculate. Now that Spiritualism is becoming re¬
spectable and fashionable, imperfect spirits in the body
will have an inducement to attempt to make manifesta¬
tions, and considering the present state of society, there
is too much reason to fear that the law of supply and
demand will work in its usual way.
THE GENERAL CHAUACTEK OF THE SEANCE.
4 ‘ Again a period of conversation intervened, during which
the spirits became animated. The evening was confessedly a
dull one, but matters appeared to brighten towards its close.
The spirits were requested to spell the name by which I am
known in the heavenly world. Our host commenced repeating
the alphabet, and when he reached the letter ‘ P ’ a knock
was heard. He began again, and the spirits knocked at the
letter 4 0.’ I was puzzled, but waited for the end. The next
letter knocked down was 4 E.’ I laughed, and remarked that
the spirits were going to make a poet of me. Admonished
for my levity, I was informed that the frame of mind proper
for the occasion ought to have been superinduced by a perusal
of the Bible immediately before the seance. The spelling, how¬
ever, went on, and sure enough I came out a poet. But
matters did not end here. Our host continued his repetition
of the alphabet, and the next letter of the name proved to be
4 0.’ Here was manifestly an unfinished word; and the
spirits were apparently in their most communicative mood.
The knocks came from under the table, but no person present
evinced the slightest desire to look under it. I asked whether
I might go underneath; the permission was granted; so I
crept under the table. Some tittered ; but the candid old A.
exclaimed, 4 He has a right to look into the very dregs of it,
to convince himself.’ Having pretty well assured myself that
no sound could be produced under the table without its origin
being revealed, I requested our host to continue his questions.
He did so, but in vain. He adopted a tone of tender entreaty;
but the 4 dear spirits ’ had become dumb dogs, and refused
to be entreated. I continued under that table for at least a
quarter of an hour, after which, with a feeling of despair as
regards the prospects of humanity never before experienced,
I regained my chair. Once there, the spirits resumed their
loquacity, and dubbed me 4 Poet of Science.’ ”
The seance was a weak and poor one, made worse in
consequence of non-compliance with the condition of
passivity. Raps are often obtained with people under
and around the table. Messages obtained through
physical manifestations are commonly very unreliable,
and especially so when there is a want of harmony in
the circle, though the expression 44 Poet of Science,” in
this case, was true and appropriate.
ASSEKTIONS.
44 This, then, is the result of an attempt made by a scientific
man to look into these, spiritual phenomena. It is not en¬
couraging ; and for this reason: the present promoters of
spiritual phenomena divide themselves into two classes, one of
which needs no demonstration, while the other is beyond the
reach of proof. The victims like to believe, and they do not
like to be undeceived.”
Question.
44 UNIFOBM EXPERIENCE” AND SPIRITUALISM.
44 Science is perfectly powerless in the presence of this frame
of mind. It is moreover a state perfectly compatible with
extreme intellectual subtlety and a capacity for devising
hypotheses which only require the hardihood engendered by
strong conviction, or by callous mendacity, to render them
impregnable. The logical feebleness of science is not suffi¬
ciently borne in mind. It keeps down the weed of superstition,
not by logic, but by slowly rendering the mental soil unfit for
its cultivation. When science appeals to uniform experience,
the Spiritualist will retort,4 How do you know that a uniform
experience will continue uniform ? You tell me that the sun
has risen for 6,000 years: that is no proof that it will rise to¬
morrow ; within the next twelve hours it may be puffed out
by the Almighty.’ ”
Spiritualism appeals to uniform experience. The
sacred books and secular histories of all nations abound
overwhelmningly with records of spiritual manifesta¬
tions. Mr. E. B. Tylor proved this conclusively one
night in a lecture at the Royal Institution, while Dr.
Tyndall sat and listened to him. The records just men¬
tioned may not all be reliable ; some of them are mixed
up with fable and superstition, whilst others are pure
forgeries.
SPIRITUALISM.
“Taking this ground, a man may maintain the story of
4 Jack and the Bean-stalk ’ in the face of all the science in
the world. You urge, in vain, that science has given us all
the knowledge of the universe which we now possess, while
Spiritualism has added nothing to that knowledge. The
drugged soul is beyond the reach of reason. It is in vain
that impostors are exposed, and the special demon cast out.
He has but slightly to change his shape, return to his house,
and find it 4 empty, swept, and garnished.’ ”
Spiritualism gives scientific demonstration of man’s
immortality. Is this 44 nothing f'j It proves that the
grave need not necessarily separate us from those we
love. It shows, as a spirit once said through the lips
of Mr.' Morse, trance-medium, 44 If a man cultivate
either his animal, his intellectual, or his spiritual facul¬
ties, to the neglect of one or both of the other two, the
triangle of the brain is thrown from its balance, and
the man is imperfect.” If Earaday had been impressed
with this idea respecting the enormous importance of
cultivating the affections, he would never have thought
it beneath his dignity to give some of his valuable time
to the exposure of what he may have thought to be a
clever imposture. He would have exposed and ex¬
ploded it out of a loving desire to protect his less gifted
and more credulous brethren. Because he had not this
spirit in perfection, one dark blot in his life will go
down with his name to posterity in all history—except
the two histories written by Dr. John Tyndall, and Dr.
Henry Bence Jones. Those histories will not be looked
upon as perfect a century hence, in those portions which
deal with Faraday’s treatment of Spiritualism.
There is nothing about those facts in nature—love and
affection—in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal
Society. Many business men, statesmen, and others, are
very imperfectly informed on these two subjects, and
Spiritualism will educate them in the cultivation of
these two important virtues more than anything else.
MORAL.
"When scientific men write authoritatively on scientific
subjects of which they have not the most elementary
knowledge, it is for the good of the public that the in-
competency of their teachers on that particular subject
should be made known, otherwise the followers of the
great men aforesaid may be led into a quagmire.
The logic of the above moral will probably be admitted
to be as unquestionable as the statement that the cir¬
cumference of a circle is everywhere equi-distant from
its centre.
The Royal Society.—At the soiree recently given by
Major General Sabine, K.C.B., to the Royal Society at Bur¬
lington House, perhaps the chief objects of scientific interest
exhibited on the occasion were contributed by the two well-
known Spiritualists, Lord Lindsay and Mr. C. F. Yarley.
The photographs of the last eclipse, taken by Lord Lindsay at
Cadiz, were exhibited ; also the large reflecting telescope with
which he did the work. This telescope was made by Mr.
John Browning, F.R.A.S. Mr. Yarley exhibited, in the
Library, some very beautiful experiments, tending to explain
the nature of luminous electrical discharges in rarefied atmos¬
pheres ; he also exhibited an experiment in which that
exceedingly rare phenomenon, ball-lightning, was produced
on a small scale. Mr. Spottiswoode, Treasurer to the Royal
Society, exhibited some interesting experiments, making
visible to the eye the vibrations and nodal points in musical
strings ; and Dr. Norris showed some remarkable experiments
relating to the motion of blood corpuscles. Among the gen¬
tlemen present on the occasion were General Sabine, President
of the Royal Society ; Professor Tyndall; Professor Tennant;
the Earl of Sheffield; Professor Owen ; Professor G. G. Stokes;
Major-Gen. Sir A. Scott Waugh; Admiral Sir J. Hay;
Colonel Lane Fox; the Netherlands Minister; General
Lefroy ; Professor Adams ; Mr. Justice Keating; Dr. J. H.
Gladstone; the Lord Mayor; Lord Cecil; the Prussian
Minister (Count Bernstorff) ; Mr. Frank Buckland ; Dr.
Rolleston ; Captain Moncrieff ; Mr. William Crookes, Author
of 44 Spiritualism Viewed by the Light of Modern Science
Lord Chelmsford; Sir Travers Twiss : Sir Henry Holland,
President of the Royal Institution ; Mr. Hepworth Dixon ;
Mr. J. Norman Lockyer; Mr. St. George Mivart; Mr. Ral-
stone; Mr. Spottiswoode; Sir Henry Rawlinson, K.C.B.,
F.R.G.S.; and Mr. Harrison.
Spirit Drawings and Paintings.—Among drawing and
painting mediums are some who, with no knowledge of draw¬
ing, produce pictures of rare beauty and excellence. Mr.
Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood, has
some remarkably fine specimens, executed by Mrs. Mapes, wife
of Professor Mapes, the celebrated American chemist; he also
has others, of nearly equal excellence, by Mrs. Wilkinson.
Such pictures are very useful for ornamental purposes. Other
drawing and painting mediums execute elaborate works of art
under spirit influence in pitch darkness under test conditions ;
among the Glasgow Spiritualists is one medium who has this
power in perfection. This form of mediumsbip, therefore, is
useful, because the drawings are executed under such con¬
ditions, as to give scientific proof to strangers that some
abnormal influence is at work. There are other drawing and
painting mediums, who waste their time year after year; by
drawing or painting incomprehensible things under spirit
influence, which things are of less use to the world, than if
they had spent the same time in knitting stockings, or sweeping
a street crossing. For the benefit of the many mediums who
have thus sacrificed their independence and right of private
judgment to disembodied spirits, these words are published as
a delicate hint, because their palpable waste of time brings
discredit upon themselves and upon Spiritualism. Any spirit,
in or out of the body, who assumes the absolute control of any
other spirit, cannot be a high one, for such a line of action
cannot be justified. Whenever mediums have sacrificed their
own independence in money or any other matters, to disem¬
bodied spirits, they have usually suffered in consequence, and
very properly too. It is told in Mrs. Hardinge’s book how
Mr. Koons helped the spirits for years, but because he yielded
up to them his common sense, and right of private independent
judgment, he was commercially ruined. We have seen much
waste of time over drawing mediumship, so hope that those
who waste time and money over the lower forms of this gift
will break off at once their present line of action. The value
of anything must be measured by its use, and Swedenborg has
pointed out that the angels in heaven are happy in proportion
to their usefulness.
The publication of The Spiritual News is suspended
during the summer months.
Mr. J. J. Morse’s public seances, held every Friday
evening at 15, Southampton-row, W.C., are very interesting.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge will leave London in May, on a
lecturing tour in the provinces. There are rumours that Mr
J. M. Peebles will shortly visit England once more.
The Royal Institution.—Professor Max Muller, M.A.,
gave a Friday evening lecture at the Royal Institution, on
March 31st, on 44Mythology.” Sir Henry Holland, Bart.,
M.D., F.R.S., presided. There was a crowded audience in
which rank and intelligence were well represented, and many
leading Spiritualists were among the listeners. The lecturer
explained how mythology was the necessary result of the
growth of language, but as he spoke chiefly of the mythologies
of the ancients, his discourse had not the same interest as the
four lectures of his once reported in these pages. He said
that the history of philosophy is a history of one constant
battle with mythology. Mr. Spottiswoode recently lectured
at the Royal Institution, and many of the leading philosophers
of the day were present. He exhibited some magnificent ex¬
periments with the electric lamps and two great Iceland spar
prisms, on the circular polarisation of light. In these novel
experiments the light was reflected from a polished plate of
silver, placed between the polarizer and the analyser.
Reincarnation.—The reincarnation doctrines of Allan
Kardec so largely accepted by French Spiritualists, and so
generally rejected by Spiritualists in other countries, seem to be
based on the assertion—44 If it were so, it would explain much
that is incomprehensible relating to the justice of God.” This
may be true, but still the question remains—44 Is it so?” and in
the vast quantity of speculations some of our contemporaries
have printed on the subject, we have seen scarcely a single
scrap of evidence in support of the great volume of assertions.
Under what conditions, through how many mediums, and at
what French circles, have the speculations been broached ?
Spiritualism Among the Quakers.—Spiritualism is
beginning to spread among the Quakers, more especially in
Yorkshire, and at Messrs. Herne and Williams’s siance last
Saturday, held at 61, Lamb's Conduit-street, Holborn, a
Quaker lady and gentleman were present. Friends and
Spiritualists have much in common, since both bodies at present
consist of very friendly people, who can manage to govern
themselves without the intervention of law or policemen. The
chief difference between a Friend and a Spiritualist, is that the
former is more unnatural, and dislikes music, flowers, paint¬
ings, dancing, bright colours, and good taste in dress. A
Quaker Deity would never create all the glories of a sunset at
sea, but would substitute drab and slate colours for the
gorgeous yellow and crimson hues of the clouds. A
sunset always tempts a Quaker to say—44 Friend sun, thou art
too gaudy!” Now that Spiritualism is fast becoming re¬
spectable and fashionable, we Spiritualists may possibly, as a
body, become so changed as scarcely to know ourselves, just
like a tadpole changed rapidly into a frog. In such case the
present resemblance between Friends and Spiritualists may,
to a large extent, cease to exist. Most Quakers cultivate
the spiritual at the expense of the intellectual and
animal faculties. Many men of science cultivate the
intellectual faculties at the expense of the spiritual and
animal. A very large proportion of the general public cultivate
the animal faculties at the expense of the spiritual and intel¬
lectual. The best plan is to try to reasonably balance all these
faculties, in due proportion to each other.
Messrs. Herne and Williams’s Mediumship.—For the
past year or two. so far as we know, there has been no paid
medium for physical manifestations in London, and this has
been a great disappointment to sincere enquirers, who have
been unable to see manifestations because of the pressure upon
private circles. Messrs. Herne and Williams, however, have just
set up as paid mediums, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, High
Holborn. They get usually raps and tilts in the light, and
spirit-voices, spirit-hands, flowers, spirit lights, and levitations
of heavy objects in the dark. A report of some wonderful
manifestations observed in their presence is printed in the last
number of the Spiritual News. Last Saturday, at an evening
party in their rooms, a planchette stood on end in a bright
light, and tapped against the toe of one of the boots of our
reporter, as though it had been a live animal. Mrs. Guppy,
the well-known medium, was also present on the occasion. On
the previous Saturday, in the course of the dark stance,
about fifteen witnesses sat round a large oval table,
with Mr. Herne at one end of the table, and Mr. Wil¬
liams at the other. Our reporter had hold of Mr. Herne’s
hand, and behind Mr. Herne’s chair was the fender. A rattle
was heard among the fire-irons, something passed with a whiz¬
zing noise between the head of our reporter and the head of a
sceptical government official on his left. This proved to be
the tongs, which then flew round and round the room like a
bat, snapping its jaws all the time. The witnesses present
were persons holding responsible stations in life, and there is
no difficulty in the way of getting their names and addresses.
Mr. Williams says that the manifestations are weaker with
him when Mr. Herne is absent, and Mr. Herne by himself
sometimes gets very good manifestations, and sometimes none
at all. Together they usually get very powerful manifesta¬
tions, but occasionally have a failure. Before they recently set
up in business as paid mediums, they had two very kind
friends, who gave them much aid in making their powers
known to the public, namely, Mrs. C. Berry and Mr. C. P.
Alsop, of 2, Great Turnstile, High Holborn. The exceedingly
wonderful manifestations these mediums usually obtain, are
sure to gain for them a large amount of public support.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A. F. Liverpool—The communication has been already published.
F. J. T. Trelawney-terrace, Hendon— Too late for this number.
J. M. P. New Jersey, U. S.—The report received. If you are about to
visit England again, cannot you bring over a good test-medium?
S. Wolverhampton—This correspondent sends information that the
abuse of Mr. Home recently published in the Standard, has been
quoted into a Birmingham paper from the Russian Academical
Gazette.
For the first time the Spiritualist has not come out on the proper
day of publication. The uncertainty for some days whether or not
this number would be filled with law reports so disturbed our
arrangements that this paper could not be brought out till the
evening of Monday the 17th April.
Two correspondents write from different towns in the country
complaining that they have ordered the Spiritualist, and the
Spiritual News, over and over again, without being able to obtain
them. There are trade interests among some few vendors of
spiritual periodicals, and those of the general public who cannot
get any periodical they want of the dealers in question, can pro¬
tect themselves by ordering the said periodicals through some
other booksellers. We print this simply to let readers know of
the artificial check.
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 15, 1871.
poetrg.
OUE LITTLE ONE.
All day long the house was glad
With the patter of little happy feet;
Never was stranger’s face so sad,
But it brightened to see a thing so sweet:
Hither and thither all the day,
Here did our little one laugh and leap,
Till his eyes grew dim and the world grew gray,
And in his little bed he lay,
Tired, tired, and fast asleep.
But all the house is very still,
And the world looks awful beyond the door;
All is still, all is chill.
And our little one will wake no more.
Yet it does not seem that he is dead—
His slumber does not seem so deep;
’Tis only dark because day has fled,
And he is lying on his bed,
Tired, tired, and fast asleep.
Alas! he smiles as if he dreams!
Can Death indeed be such as this ?
He lies so prettily, it seems
That I could wake him with a kiss.
’Tis like the nights that used to be—
Only I wring my hands and weep,
And the night is very dark, and see!
There on his little bed lies he,
Tired, tired, and fast asleep.
From “ Poems of the Country Life."
(S^rrespontiena.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE ZOTJAYE JACOB, THE HEALING MEDIUM:.
Sie,—On the 20th of December last I took a young lady,
about twelve years of age, to M. Jacob. A few years ago she
suffered much from a broken elbow, and latterly from weak¬
ness and pain in one of her knees; all that various medical
men could do was done, but she was left upon crutches, with¬
out which she could not get about. Having represented to
her parents what I Anew as having been effected by M. Jacob’s
influence, they acceded to my wish to make the visit as above.
M. Jacob’s manifestation is very gentle, almost passive ; she
left his apartments on her crutches, used them on the follow¬
ing day, but on the second morning they were laid aside, and
have not been used since. She gradually acquired the power
of walking freely, and I this morning received a letter from
her mother, in which she says, “ that she (the daughter) never
feels her knee at all now, and that her general health is excel¬
lent.” I am sure you will be glad to make so marked a case
of M. Jacob’s great and beneficent gift of healing known as
widely as possible. Henry Collen.
St. Albans.  
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE.
SIR,—Having just received a paper from Mr. Peebles, who
recently visited England as American Consul at Trebizond,
which paper, called 27te Troy Daily Press, was addressed to
“John Watt, care of T. Everitt,’’ and there being reports of
some lectures in it given at Apollo Hall by Mr. J. M. Peebles,
I think a few extracts would be • interesting to your readers,
as that gentleman is well known among them.
After speaking at some length of the different phenomena
he had witnessed at various seances, he says;—“ I think I
have seen more wonderful manifestations in England than in
America, owing probably to the different conditions of the
atmosphere, the greater density of it, and perhaps the greater
perseverance of the English Spiritualists.” In another part
he says :—“ A great many people argue that the advancement
of Spiritualism will have a tendency to supersede the Bible.
I thought so once myself, but I am convinced now that the
truths contained in that Holy Book are eternal, and all the
powers of darkness and earth combined could not blot out any
truth. I have a firmer faith in the Bible to- day than I had in
years agone, because I have a more thorough knowledge and
understanding of heavenly and spiritual things. Now I come
to the Bible proofs of Spiritualism.
“According to the ancient Bible accounts, very soon after
mortals began to pass into the immortal world, angels and
immortalized spirits commenced holding converse with men
on earth. To this end three angels appeared to Abraham
while he sat in the door of his tent, and he conversed with
them and set food before them; Gen. xviii. When Hagar
and her child were perishing with thirst, an angel of the Lord
came and showed her a living spring ; Gen. xvi. The angels
appeared to Lot, and he bowed his face to the earth before
them ; Gen. xvii. Jacob, in vision, beheld a ladder set upon
the earth, and the top reached to heaven, and he beheld the
angels of God ascending and descending ; Gen. xxviii. 12. An
angel appeared to Moses in a flame of fire from the midst of
the bush ; Acts vii. 35. As Jacob was journeying on his way
he met three angels ; Gen. xxxii. 1. As Elijah was sleeping
under a juniper tree, an angel touched him, ‘and said unto him,
Arise and eat’; 1 Kings xix. 5. The prophet Daniel says,
While 1 was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom
I had seen in the vision . . . tended me ; Dan. ix. 21. Angels
and spirits appeared to the Marys at Jesus’ tomb. Matthew
says the stone was rolled away by the angel of the Lord ; but
Mark, referring to the same thing, calls the angel a young
man clothed in a long white garment. See also Job iv. 14,
15, 16; Fear came upon me and trembling, which made my
bones to shake ; then a spirit passed before my faceit stood
still, but I could not discern the form thereof, and I heard a
voice, saying, Shall mortal man be more just than God. Eev.
xkii. 8, 9; ‘And I John saw these things and heard them,!
and fell down to worship at the feet of the angel that showed
me these things. Then said he unto me, See thou do it not,
for I am thy fellow-servant, and of thy brethren the prophets.
Worship God.’ Rev. iv. 1; ‘After this I looked, and behold a
door was opened in heaven, and I heard a voice talking, and
it said, Come up hither.’ Acts xxiii. 9 ; ‘And there arose a
great cry, and they said we find no evil in this man, but if a
spirit or an angel hath spaken with him, let us not fight
against God.’ Luke ix. 30; ‘And behold there talked with
him two men who were Moses and Elias.’
“ These texts declare in the most positive manner that the
man Gabriel touched the prophet Daniel ; that Samuel from
the spirit-world appeared and held converse with Saul; that
a spirit passed before Job’s face, and he heard the voice ; that j
an angel conversed with John, which proved to be his fellow-
servant ; that an angel or spirit spake to'Saul, and that Moses
and Elias appeared and talked with Jesus in the presence of
Peter, James, and John, on the mount. In fact, the Bible
abounds in spiritual appearings, visions, trances, dreams, and
wonders, and the living facts of to-day confirm those ancient
facts.”
I will take this opportunity just to say that we have received
a letter from Mr. Peebles addressed to John Watt, and which
I have no doubt he will answer some day.
To show your readers the high appreciation he has of J. W.,
I will conclude with an extract from his Year-Book of Spirit¬
ualism. Mr. Peebles says ;—“It is a pleasure, as well as jus¬
tice done, to say that the controlling intelligence of this circle,
John Watt, is a most exalted and truthful spirit. It is heaven
on earth to converse with him upon life and scenery in the
world of spirits. He dwells in the love-sphere of immor¬
tality, and has fully proved himself worthy the appellation of
ministering angel." M. A. Everitt.
A SPIRITUAL SEANCE UNSOUGHT.
Sir,—It is generally so insisted upon by Spiritualists that
rigid conditions are necessary to establish communications
from the spirit-world, that I am induced as briefly as possible
to send you the following short account of what transpired at
my house last Sunday evening. My friends, Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt were staying with us simply for a healthful change.
Mrs. Everitt not being very well, we held a short seance with
our own family circle as usual, in which one of my little boys
was entranced by a spirit purporting to be John Watt. It is
not my object now to call attention to this sitting further.
The children had retired for the night, and we were sitting
round the fire chatting on various matters of daily life.
Suddenly Mrs. Everitt was entranced, rose from her chair,
and with eyes shut walked round to the other side of the
dining-table, where she placed a chair, and made a feint of
writing. Pencil and paper were supplied, when she wrote
quickly, “John Watt is coming; he wishes to speak to you
to-night.” Mrs. Everitt then walked, carefully avoiding
chairs and other articles of furniture, into the drawing-room,
and sat down in a corner of the room. We followed, and sat
promiscuously about the room, shutting the door to create
darkness. Scents and lights came immediately in profusion,
and then John Watt quietly addressed us. He came chiefly,
he said, to remove a false impression he saw we were enter¬
taining. The voice through our little boy was not his own,
but from one in his society, and he wished to correct us. He
then spoke for about half-an-hour, and wishing us “ Good
night,” departed. We returned to our former seats round the
fire, and Mrs. Everitt in her somnolent state, returned, awoke,
and told us she had been in the other room, and seen our
little spirit group playing about us, with two adults, who by
description I recognised as my father and mother. On show¬
ing my father’s photograph, Mrs. Everitt immediately con¬
firmed our impression.
Much more she had seen and described, but seemed herself
mystified b w she had been in another room with them and
us, and yet was now in the same seat as before her trance. It
was as perfectly unsought by us all as it was pleasant, and
will probably interest your readers as a seance not only un¬
sought, but,absolutely determined beforehand, out of regard
to Mrs. Everitt’s health, not to be held.
Hendon, March 31,1871. Morell Theobald.
THE MESSAGE PROM E. M. DENNYS.
Sir,—In No. 18 of the Spiritualist, Miss F. J. Theobald, of
Hendon, published an extract from a message said to have
been given by Edward N. Dennys, the author of Alpha,
through her mediumship, which reads as follows : “ The
fatherhood is universal, but it is a truth I did not grasp that
it ultimated fully in the Spirit of Christ His Son.”
In No. 19 of the Spiritualist, Mr. A. C. Swinton, of Kilbum,
“ as the intimate associate of the late Edward N. Dennys,
impugns the affirmation that Edward N. Dennys is the author
of the passage quoted, because of the “ irrationality of the
ideas conveyed, and their utter antagonism to those of that
great humanitarian thinker.” In an editorial note appended
to A. C. Swinton’s letters you ask, firstly, “ What is the
evidence that it is Dennys who communicated ?” Secondly,
“ To what extent are the messages warped by the opinions of
the medium ? ”
As the communication from which the above-written ex¬
tract is taken was made in my presence, and as I have
received benefit from the profoundly thoughtful writings of
E. N. Dennys, I determined to test further the authorship.
To this end I went to Mr. Bird, of 98, Lothian-road, Brixton,
who is one of the best test mediums known to me. I did not
tell him the ultimate object of my visit, but asked him to
consider me as an investigator coming for the first time to
investigate. When the tilts of the table signalled the presence
of a spirit, I asked Mr. Bird to inquire who was present,
whereupon the name of Edward N. Dennys was spelt. As
Mrs. Wood, who is an excellent seeing medium, was in the
room, I asked her if she could see the spirit and describe him.
She then described E. N. Dennys accurately.
He then told me he was the author and communicator of
the message we had received through the mediumship of Miss
Theobald, that the idea he wished to convey to us was in
the message, although it was of a necessity clothed in the
medium’s form of expression. Three successive times did I
make the same enquiry through Mr. Bird, under similar con¬
ditions, and with similar results. On two occasions Mr. Bird,
together with Mrs. Bird, saw and described E. N. Dennys
whilst he was answering my questions. Mrs. Bird saw the
replies as E. N. Dennys passed them through the table, and
confirmed them. Twice during the time which elapsed be¬
tween my first and last visit to Mr. Bird’s I had the privilege
of sitting en seance with Mrs. Everitt, through whom E. N.
Dennys several times has communicated. On each of these
occasions I put the same questions to him with the same pre¬
caution as exercised at Mr. Bird’s, and with the same result.
I made the same enquiry, three separate times, in my own
circle, where our communications are equally reliable, and
with the same result. Dennys has also confirmed to me per¬
sonally ' what he told me through the mediumship of the
ladies and gentleman now named.
I give you this information, as a reply to your first ques¬
tion, “What is the evidence that it is Dennys who communi¬
cated?” The second cannot be so easily answered, and as
you yourself have raised the question, you will be willing to
print the message, from which the extract was made, in its
completeness, which will enable those so disposed to judge
it as a whole.
“ . .. But pray let me beg you will not make me a prominent
leader, as it were, of a new sect. I wish truth to disseminate,
but not to be prominently brought forward, for it not I as an
individual who teach these truths, truths mixed with error,
which I pray God to weed away. On earth I was a
medium for the sphere here ; I am so still, becoming more
and more so, because of the embodiment of my thoughts in
books. They draw me. ... Be true to your own consciences.
It is true error creeps in,—for the want of truth is error, as the
absence of light is darkness,—but God, head over all, is
willing to set all individual minds at play, and each mind
must germinate fresh thoughts within, and out of—thoughts
which will tend to elucidate truth. God the Infinite is the
only infinitude of truth, because the only centre of perfect¬
ness or perfection.,.. The Fatherhood, the God, is universal;
but it is a truth I did not grasp, that it ultimated fully in the
spirit of Christ His Son. ... It is true great heroes have lived,
who had the Christ-life in them ; the full in-germination of
the essence of Divinity ; but in Christ alone did God in the
flesh walk this earth.. . . He was the great medium for inter¬
communication with the centre of Divinity. Other mediums
received but the ‘ ray of light,’ dropped, or gleaming through
the minds of the higher or lower spirits. This constitutes the
one great difference... . He stands alone as only a son can.
His sonship is involved in the Fatherhood, as the Fatherhood
would not—could not—be complete without the sonship.
Christ is the visible presence of this centre of Divinity, and as
such He was embodied in your material frame, which differed
in a very material degree—very etherial degree from the
ordinary humanity. . .. Mary, His mother, was the actual
medium for the material body... . Let these thoughts ger¬
minate ; resist them not.”
I cannot think my friend, Mr. A. C. Swinton, has read this
communication, or he would not have penned the letter which
appeared in your last, wherein he clearly shows, in his post-
scriptum that his antagonism was against the God-denying
doctrine of the vicarious sacrifice, or atonement, which he
feared might be involved in the teaching of the extract, and
against which life-destroying doctrine Edward N. Denny
ever fought, and continues still to fight.
No such doctrine appears in the message.
6, Cambridge-road, The Junction, C. W. Pearce.
Kilburn, N.W.
[With reference to the questions Mr. Pearce put to Dennys, how did he
put them ? Did he make a statement, and ask Dennys to say “ yes ” or
“ no ” to it, or did he, instead of thus putting “ leading questions,” leave
Dennys to tell his own tale? Much depends upon the way in which questions
are put, to obtain an unbiassed statement of what is in the mind of the
respondent. We have often seen statements thus placed in the mouths of
spirits by irrational questioning.—Ed.]
THE BERNERS CLUB.
Sir,—In your last number youinvited a discussion on the sub¬
ject Commonly known as “ Woman’s Rights.” Much as I dislike
the name, and regret the unfavourable publicity into which the
movement has forced many wise and excellent, as well as some
foolish, women, I am among those who feel that as long as our
sex is denied that justice at the hand of the law, and that in¬
dividual freedom in social and domestic life which has hitherto
been considered the right of men only, it is the duty of all
true women to use what influence they may have in demand¬
ing the one and in extending the limits of the other.
In connection with this subject, I venture to send you a
sketch of the women’s club, which was instituted about two years
ago in Newman-street, but which is now removed to 9, Berners-
street, Oxford-street, arid is designated the Berners Club.
The object of the club is to afford a resting and dining-place
to ladies engaged in teaching, or in the study of art or litera¬
ture. and for those who may come some distance into London
for shopping ; and to provide, in the evening, a suitable place
of resort and recreation for those engaged in various kinds of
business during the day. It contains a dining-room, where
refreshments are provided at a nominal price; a reading-
room, supplied with newspapers and periodicals, besides a
small permanent library, and a drawing-room, where members
can meet and receive their friends. The subscription is 10s.
yearly, with an entrance fee of Is. The club has, at present,
between 200 and 300 members, but twice that number is
necessary to make it self-supporting. In the meantime, many
ladies of independent means have become members, chiefly
for the sake of increasing the funds ; and among the list of
contributors by donation or annual subscription are the
names of Sir John and Lady Coleridge, Professor Huxley,
Mrs. P. A. Taylor, Mrs. Westlake, and others equally weR-
known. The best service, however, that friends can render
the club, is to make it more widely known, for the comfort
and benefit to those whom it concerns are so obvious that it
cannot fail to be appreciated by all who are introduced to
it. I especially recommend it to those engaged at private
milliners, lace houses, and others of a similar description,
where only a few are employed, and consequently, a change
of society is necessary. ,In the larger establishments of
linendrapers and silk mercers, a certain amount of recreation
and means of improvement are, I believe, generally provided
within doors; but even to some of these the different a tmos-
phere of the club might be beneficial. Anyone wishing to
become a member must give a satisfactory reference as to
respectability, unless introduced by one of the committee.
I hope in time to see similar clubs established in other parts
of London, as it is of course desirable that they should be
within easy reach of those who frequent them.
Adamanta.
ALLEN KARDEC’S REINCARNATION THEORY.
(Reply to the Editor of Aurora, Italian Spiritual Journal.)
Sir,—There is no inclination to “ burk ” reincarnation ;
there is no desire to contend about reincarnation ; there is no
belief in the truth of reincarnation by British Spiritualists;
therefore, as to us it is a tale of imagination, continentalists
need not be surprised at the almost total silence you so much
feel.
The British, as a people,, allow no despotic mind to control
them. Their leaders may read, and think, and judge; but the
people will not follow unless those leaders can give satisfac¬
tory reasons grounded on facts. On the continent the reverse
appears to be the case.
Taking your article copied from The Aurora, published at
Florence, and forwarded to me, as the basis on which the
assertions I am about to make are made; I find you admit that
“ a lack otphysicalphenomena exists in France and Italy, which
we in England possess, but that you have the teachings from
high spirits, through a trusted human mind (Allen Kardec),
and therefore we in Britain ought at once to accept his in¬
spirational teachings.” You are wrong. Your position is weak.
We in Britain not only have powerful physical phenomena,
but we have inspired communications from ethereal beings ;
and as they confirm their existence, and individuality, and
teachings by signs and wonders; we have greater reason to
trust than you who, have only the declaration without the cre¬
dentials—Miracles.
The British leaders of Spiritualism have been practical pro¬
ducers of clairvoyance and biology, and of sympathies of taste
and thoughts, by means of negative minds; and have and can
produce any kind of theory on any subject by means of the silent
will. They therefore required and still require, that inspira¬
tional information should be free from the possibility of human
April 15, 1871
THE SPIRITUALIST.
159
action, conscious and unconscious. Moreover, they require
that it be accompanied by phenomena superior to the power
of man, under like conditions. These have been fully given
to us in England, and as under them no announcement of re¬
incarnation has been made, do not be surprised at our apathy,
our stolidity. J
Negative minds, or mediums, are often influenced at stances,
and their utterances confused by the mesmeric action of
positive minds, where trance developments only are produced.
The idea that spirits are ever busy plunging into semi-fluid
bodies called human, losing, as a rule, all remembrance of their
prior existences, for say fifty to seventy years each plunge, has
something so funny, so absurd in it, as to cause a smile, except
when the deductions drawn seem to excuse lax morality.
Then uprises in the mind of the Briton, the Protestant energy
and the vigorous antagonism displayed by some of our
writers.
We of Great Britain have, by spirits (no doubt high, though
we do not boast of them as such), through wonderful
phenomena, been taught that our individuality commenced at
birth—that when we pass out of our semi-fluid bodies, we
continue to remember all our past life with its incidents and
associations, recognise all those who have gone before, see all
those still in human form; watch over, protect, and help them
mentally and physically. That these spirit human beings are
sometimes seen, sometimes not seen, till we, too, leave the
body, and more intimately associate together as etherial
beings; having increased perceptions of principles and powers,
and by using them, increase in knowledge and usefulness.
There is, to our thinking, a simple natural course of con¬
tinuous conscious existence, ever learning, yet never coming
to a full knowledge of the Infinite mind—God.
Our “ New Testament ” is our platform of principles, and
its unequalled miracles its credentials. Some Spiritualists
recently changed from Atheism and Deism to belief in the
existence of God, and of angels, and of their own personal
continued existence after flesh death, do not fully accept
that book as their text-book, or “ our Saviour ” as their leader
in Divine knowledge of our future state of life and duties; yet
are ever using the sayings of “ The Book,” and its phenomena.
Of one thing be assured, that God the Infinite, the director
of pure etherial beings, is wisely ordering the manifestations
of power for the good of men of all nations; and as many
peoples and languages, embracing millions upon millions of
individualized human beings, are under the British rule, He
is ordering all things well for us, as a large section of the
human family. John Jones.
Enmore Park, Norwood Junction, London.
ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND THE HUMAN BODY.
Sir,—In the Spiritualist for February 15th is a letter from
Mr. Varley with the above heading, on which, with the greatest
respect for his attainments in science, I feel obliged to make
a few remarks, as it appears to me that the conclusions drawn
from the experiments described are rather hasty, and the
enunciation of them even somewhat dogmatical. I am quite
sure that with Mr. Varley’s love of truth, and his moral
courage in confessing it, he will not be averse to repeating
experiments, and re-considering the subject of the connexion
of electricity and magnetism with the human body.
The vulcanite comb mentioned jby Mr. Varley is by no
means a necessary adjunct for producing the electric sparks
when applied to the hair of the head, as I have several times
been called by my wife to listen to the crackles (seen as sparks
in the dark) when she has been brushing her hair with a hair
brush, these not being “ dissimilar imperfect conductors ”—no
doubt the same effect may be produced by loose hair and a
vulcanite comb, because these are such conductors.
As I have never worn a silken shirt, I cannot speak of the
effect produced on pulling it off rapidly, but in my younger
days I have often, on pulling off silken stockings after a dance,
heard the electric snappings, and seen the sparks. Now, I
submit that the effect produced by the removal of either shirt
or stockings is due to the insulating quality of the silk, in
consequence of which the electricity in or on the body cannot
pass off to other conductors as it usually does ; if not, how is
it that this effect is never observed with woollen or cotton
clothing? If the silk is moist, it of course loses its insulating
quality in proportion to the moisture ; if really wet, it is no
longer an insulator.
I am well acquainted with a lady who is very sensitive to
electrical influences, knows when a thunder-storm is approach¬
ing, and cannot remain in a room in which an electrifying
machine is in action ; being also a medium for spiritual com¬
munications, I induced her, on one occasion, to sit completely
insulated, as I wished to know what effect, if any, would be
produced. The insulation was effected by a large sheet of
india-rubber cloth. But she soon complained of very uncom¬
fortable sensations, and I was obliged to remove it. Does not
this look like an interruption to the natural discharge of the
accumulated electricity from the human body ? If accumu¬
lated in the human body, how and why? The answer to
the how, I offer in this wise, premising that “ no chemical
action can take place without a development of electricity.”
Now a chemical action takes place in the lungs when the in¬
haled air comes into contact with the blood, the oxygen
uniting with the effete carbon of the venous blood, and thus
forming the carbonic acid of exhalation. What part the nitro¬
gen plays, who knows ?—it is enough, however, for our purpose,
that there is- a development of electricity within the human
body, and we may be sure it is not there without a purpose.
With regard to Du Bois Raymond’s beautiful experiment
with the galvanometer, I hope Mr. Varley will be induced to
go over the experiments again; I am now precluded from
having that pleasure, but I remember well that on repeatedly
squeezing and relaxing the hand, I have sent the needle up to
90 degrees in fourteen efforts, and have seen a man, much
more robust and magnetic than I ever was, do the same in
three.
In making the experiment, it is absolutely essential that the
water in the basins should be exactly of the same quality and
temperature; but if chemicals are5introduced, such as ammonia
and nitric acid, it is at once vitiated, and then truly the “ cur¬
rents are (may be) simply due to electro-chemical action.”
The experiment suggested with the four-pound weight does
not prove that the brain is not the source of power, if its
duality is taken into consideration ; or, even without this,
only goes to show that the muscles are no longer in a condition
to receive the slowly given orders of the brain—slow as com¬
pared with the rapidity of signal given from France to Ame¬
rica. The question is not, however, whether the brain is the
source of the power conveyed by the nerve to the muscle, but
whether the power is in any way connected with electricity.
In a lecture given by Du Bois Raymond at the Royal Insti¬
tution, April 13, 1866, he says that “ every attempt to identify
it (the nervous agent) with the electric current as it circulates
in a telegraph mire must appear hopeless.” He also says,
“Yet it would be rash, as the matter stands, entirely to dis¬
miss the notion of electricity being concerned, and even play¬
ing a prominent part in the internal mechanism of the nerves.”
The human body is so complex in its construction, the actions
going on within it so infinitely delicate, and we are so
totally unconscious of many of them, that it appears to be by
no means certain that true conclusions can be arrived at, but
it is very certain that other and more refined means are
required in making an attempt to detect these actions and the
causes of them, than suffice for rendering evident the weakest
current through a copper wire.
The nerve may be a very bad conductor compared with a
Copper wire of the worst quality, and the sheath of the nerve
may be a very poor insulator, when compared with a coating
of gutta percha, but may still have sufficient insulating power
to preserve to the slowly conducting nerve its weak current of
electricity.
Investigators of such recondite phenomena as are presented
by the human body, especially those connected with the
nervous system, should be very cautious in announcing as
positive the results of one set of experiments, in contradiction
to those of quite another class. Great as has been the advance
in the acquirement of knowledge with regard to the nervous
system, in consequence of the researches made by Sir C. Bell,
Gall, and the electro-physiologists, it cannot for a moment be
supposed that all is known; but that, on the contrary, the
utmost patience in investigation is required before another
step is made.
The experiments in America are so evidently the results of
frictional electricity, arising from “ dissimilar imperfect con¬
ductors,” that although they are curious from their intensity,
caused by the extreme dryness of the atmosphere, &c., they
are beside the question of human electricity. How few years
have passed since the patient and ardent investigator, Fara¬
day, showed that all the various substances which had been
submitted to experiment (so many, that it is almost safe to
say, all in nature) were under the influence of the magnet,
and liable to be classed as magnetics, or dia-magnetics—man
among the rest 1 and yet who at present can say what is the
effect of dia-magnetic repulsion on bodies ? The magnetic
substance becomes itself magnetic, with an attractive power ;
is there no equivalent effect produced on the dia-magnetic
substance ? Is there not an electric condition set up in the
dia-magnetic body while in its equatorial position between
the poles of the magnet ? Should the answer be in the affir¬
mative, then man must be electrical, placed as he is between
the poles of the great magnet, the earth. These, and many
other such-like questions, will be answered satisfactorily,
sooner or later ; and we may wait patiently for what may
prove to be a key to the difficulties attaching to mesmerism,
and analogous subjects—and it may hereafter be proved that
the forces by which mesmeric actions are produced are elec¬
tricity and magnetism.
I most sincerely hope that what I have said may not only
not deter, but urge forward Mr. Varley and others, in this
grandest of all paths of discovery ; that it is so, the late Mr.
Faraday expressed himself as convinced, when he wrote that
the discovery of the causes of mesmeric phenomena “ would
be the greatest that could be vouchsafed to man.”
St. Albans. Henry Collen.
[In the brush experiment mentioned in this letter, the element of friction
is introduced, and the brush probably had an insulating handle. Other
than silk shirts do sometimes produce the effects described by Mr. Varley,
when worn by dry-skinned people; if they acted as insulators, they would
continually be giving off feeble sparks, but it is only after friction that the
said sparks are actually obtained. The probable presence of feeble elec¬
tricity in closed circuits in the human body, wherever there is fluid friction
or chemical action, is one thing, and the emission- of electricity or magne¬
tism from the human body to the enormous extent supposed by some
Spiritualists is another, and the latter question has been very conclusively
answered. If the body gave off these forces to such an enormous extent, it
would be impossible for the clerks to work the Atlantic Telegraph. One
practical fact mentioned by our correspondent is interesting, namely, the
large deflections of a galvanometer he obtained (partly, however, by “ accu¬
mulation”), and the circumstance that some persons can give greater
deflections than others. These experiments require repeating and verifying
by many persons before they can be accepted as proved, and then the force
is only weak galvanic electricity, which does not pass through air to the
distance of say one-millionth of an inch from any human body. 'With
enormously sensitive instruments, perhaps the most sensitive in the world,
Mr. Varley only obtained feeble indications of electrical action, but it cannot
be gathered from his article whether he tried the hands of anybody but
himself.—Ed.]
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—The statement made by Mr. Towns, in your last, about
a spirit who gave the name of “Uncle James,” is not quite
accurate. It is true he has often personified a spirit who
gives the name of “John Bunyan,” but he has always been
detected, whilst the latter has given tolerably satisfactory
proofs of identity. , A. C.
THE DIFFICULTIES OF INVESTIGATORS.
Sib,—I am much disposed to give my adhesion to Spiritual¬
ism, because I think that the evidence in its favour is stronger
than anything which I have seen adduced against it, but
when my mind is all but made up to its reality, the puerile,
foolish, and contradictory messages which appear in some
spiritual publications make me hesitate to accept it; and in
this I know that I am not singular. In the account of the
recent stance at Kilburn, we had the spirit of Mr. Dennys
telling us of beautiful trees, shrubs, a splendid apartment, a
distant city, a benevolent spirit in elegant attire, &c. Is it
possible that this can be a reality ? Why did not the spirit tell
us of the locality which he described, or why was he' not inter¬
rogated about it ? Was it in a planet of our system or in that
of another ? Wherever it was, we are led to believe that it
was in remote space. How is it that we don’t obtain some¬
thing really worth knowing from those who in the body
cultivated astronomy and the kindred sciences, and who, in
revisiting this earth, must pass through our solar system, and
yet so far as I know say nothing about its glory. _ I think it
is much to be regretted that those who investigate in a proper
spirit do not publish the result of their observations on a
subject of so much interest. If they could be induced to do so,
it would not be necessary to give names if the reports were
authenticated by an intelligent and trustworthy person.
Were persons like that accomplished man and distinguished
philosopher Mr. Yarley to do so, Spiritualism, I feel certain,
would command attention in quarters where it is now ridi¬
culed, and educated men might be induced to assist in un¬
veiling the mystery in which it is now enveloped.
Edinburgh. A. B. 0.
[So far as we know, the few scientific people connected with Spiritualism
are quite insensible to the ridicule of the uninformed, and if any educated
persons elect to stand aloof from Spiritualism, they have a right to do so,
if they like. Why should we interfere ? If, after being told in a kindly way
of the facts, they choose ignorance rather than knowledge, that is their
business, and not ours. If a man accept error rather than truth, and wil¬
fully neglect to examine the evidence on which his opinions are based, he
alone is responsible for his want of knowledge, and why should his neigh¬
bours interfere with him against his will ?
Spiritual manifestations are of two kinds—^physical and mental. In the
production of the very extraordinary physical manifestations often recorded
in spiritual journals, the spirits confine themselves to the performance
of their work, and usually only send a message or two of a few sentences, all
through the siance. Messages come most freely through trance and clairvoy¬
ant mediums; there are few of these in London; it is only at occasional
stances that any scientific men are present, and then they can only put a
question now and then, in turn with other persons. The space of a whole
article would be required to answer all the questions in the foregoing letter,
but the following facts show some of the difficulties of the subject:—
1. The communicating spirit may be truthful or untruthful.—2. All com¬
munications are coloured more or less by the medial channel through which
they flow.—3. Comparatively few spirits are able to communicate at all
through one particular medium.—4. The messages, as received through a
trance-medium, are sometimes literally accurate, sometimes symbolical, and
sometimes a mixture of both.—5. Human beings have neither the language
to convey, or the brains to receive, clear knowledge of many of the condi¬
tions of spirit life.—6. The whole subject will require investigation for some
centuries.
Spirit messages often state that there are millions of spirits in the next
world, who will not believe that it is possible to communicate with men on
earth, and who, when asked to come to a circle, will not do so. It is the
same on earth—the great majority of people will not investigate the subject,
or come to a circle when invited. If astronomers on both sides of the
grave will not go near a medium, and if a medium cannot at present be
found with an organism suitable for the transmission of their particular
methods of thought, how is astronomical information to b# obtained ?
There are astronomical spirit-messages on record; we have been collecting
them for the purpose of comparison, and mean hereafterto publish results.
Possibly astronomers, and other physical philosophers, may hereafter
have to learn that the physical universe is the result of mental conditions, but
we do not at present assert this to be so. When a clairvoyant in London
sees a scene in Birmingham, where are the intervening walls and hills of
material substances 2 Could the clairvoyant, if asked, measure the distance
between the room in London and the room in Birmingham 2 The conditions
of time and space are not the same to spirits as they are to mortals.—Ed.]
“ GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.”*
Never was a more fitting title th.an this, which the medium
to whom these words of heavenly hope were given, has chosen,
in sending her little book out into the world, to convey to
many other souls the consolation and the instruction she has
herself received. Full of an unearthly brightness are these
pictures of the “ land that is very far off,” and that is yet,
in a spiritual sense, very nigh to each one of us, the land of
life and light.
Once opened, this small book will have for any thoughtful
reader, even the least ’believing in its spirit-origin, a fascina¬
tion that he will not be able to resist; and with however
much incredulity he may begin it, inevitably he will finish
it, and will lay it down with at least this verdict—that “ it is
all very wonderful,” while some of its suggestions may linger
in his memory, and may possibly, even although unconsciously,
throw some light for him upon the problems of life and of
death.
By the intelligent Spiritualist this little volume will be
hailed with much satisfaction, as one more evidence of the
high and pure teaching that is coming to us in these doubting
days from the unseen.
A very admirable preface has been contributed by “ A. M.
H. W.” a signature which brings to my mind sundry able
articles in the Spiritual Magazine. This preface is, in itself,
a brief, but valuable treatise on spirit-phenomena ; especially
those coming through writing and drawing mediumship.
The medium to whom these “ Glimpses ” were vouchsafed,
distinctly says that she does not expect or desire them to be
received as dogmatic or infallible utterances of truth or fact.
As they came to her, she offers them to others. She does not
consider herself responsible for the opinions therein expressed,
but she “ cherishes and values them, as the words of spirit
friends who have passed into a Brighter Land.” Every spirit
out of the flesh has his own personal experiences, which may
not correspond exactly with those of others. He has his
identity and individuality, as entirely, nay, more entirely and
absolutely than when he dwelt in the earth body, Beings who
have passed within the veil are not thereby rendered all¬
knowing ; they can but give their testimony to what they
believe the highest knowledge and the truest truth.
The messages have been written mechanically, and with
complete passivity, so far as the will and consciousness of the
receiver of them were concerned. She was ignorant of what
words and sentences were being formed, until she read them
over when completed.
Perhaps one of their most marked characteristics and
greatest beauties, is the clearness and yet the fulness of the
symbolism with which they are replete. With much force,
they all combine in declaring that the other world, while it is
essentially real and actual, visible and tangible to spirit eyes,
is yet penetrated through and through with an inner and
mystic meaning which is its life and soul, the outward
fact and appearance being but the form and clothing through
which the essential idea manifests itself, and being therefore
completely secondary and subordinate to the thought which it
enshrines. On earth we, have agreed to look upon this mere
clothing as the reality, and so, as we serve and worship the
outward, its proportions increase, and the spiritual lesson and
meaning is overwhelmed until it dies away and perishes under
the weight of the materiaL In the spirit land one of the first
things that will strike us, if so be that the teachings of Spirit¬
ualism are true, will be that “the flesh” (or the form) pro-
fiteth nothing except in as far as it be the true and fitting
externalization and embodiment of a living spiritual truth.
In our future fate there is nothing arbitrary. Heaven and
hell are at the same time subjective states and objective con¬
ditions. Our surroundings will be the reflection of our inner¬
most selves. Here we may deceive ourselves and others.
There we must be seen as we.are and not as we would fain
appear. The “ Books'will be opened,” and “ he that runneth
may read for our face, our garb, our dwelling, and all about
us, will reveal us to the universe; and men and angels will
behold the glorified saint, the struggling spirit, or the sinner
lost awhile to God and heaven. A Judgment Day this, from
which many well may shrink and call upon the hills to hide
them, and the mountains to cover them !
This is what a spirit writes : “ Everything here is typical of
our state. Some are in rags who, on earth, were rich and-
handsome, their robes tattered, and their bodies miserable and
sick; while many who were crippled and deformed on earth,
are lovely now. According to the mind, so is the body ; ac¬
cording to the spirit, so is the outer garb. We have beautiful
mansions for the good to live in, and mud hovels and wretched
cabins for those who in life were selfish and dwelt in palaces,
while their neighbours perished around them, unheeded and
uncared for.” With this short extract I heartily commend
“Glimpses of a Brighter Land ” to all who can procure it; to
those who mourn, and those who doubt; to those who sorrow
and those who speculate, believing that each will find within
its pages something for himself, something to soothe, to in¬
terest, and to instruct. Alice Hacker.
Prestwicb, near Manchester.
* London : H. Bailliere, Regent Street,
160
THE SPIRITUALIST
April 15, 1871
FACTS FOB. IOT-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is.impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. "Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. C. F. Varley,
C. E., F.R.G.S., M.R.I.
“ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in eveiy possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
It also cpne out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:-
“Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham; Alfred It. Wallace, Esq., Holly House, Bark¬
ing; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or->
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Yictoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matte)' to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge E dmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Ltfe of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal of
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870:—
“20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“ July 13th, 1870.
“Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “ Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
“ I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the good
friends I; possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours,
William Crookes.”
A work entitled The Boole of Nature, by C. O.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No; for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modem Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
- “ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by comA
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general Conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
. 7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselve,s to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read' before trying to start a new
circle.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
FOR EFFECTING
BANKING LIFE, & SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES
ON GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.
Head Offices:
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices:
20, King William-street, London, E.C.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Renfield-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, Dublin.
1, Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool.
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARE
It provides Government Security for the Life Premium
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses of Management, Reserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorsed on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac¬
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “ Surrender-values ” can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c.^London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
SUNDAY EVENING MEETINGS in con¬
nection with SPIRITUALISM, conducted by Mrs.
Emma Hardinge, are held every Sunday evening, at
1, Cleveland Assembly Rooms, Cleveland-street, Fitzroy-
square. Admission free. There is a collection at the
doors.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF En¬
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. THOS. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
MR. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAR, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
ville Road, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (comique), entitled ‘ Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. R. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle.
Female medical society.
Vice-Patrons;
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President;
The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer :
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary;
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
 Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRITUALISM.—The CONFERENCES
and LECTURES on the above subject will be
continued Every SUNDAY, up to and including May 7,
1871, in the PUBLIC ROOM, 31, PARADISE STREET,
BIRMINGHAM.
Conferences in the Mornings at 11 o’clock. (With
Discussion.) Lectures in the Evenings at 7 o'clock. ■
In the Afternoons at half-past 3 o’clock, Mr. John
Collier will give a series of Readings and Recitals, from
the works of various authors. Admission Free to all
the Meetings, but Collections, towards defraying the
Expenses, will be made.
On Monday, April 17,1871, A Public Tea Meeting and
Soiree will be held. Tea on the Tables at 6 o’clock
precisely.
After Tea there will be a Miscellaneous Entertainment,
consisting of Music, Songs, Recitations, and Speeches.
Tickets for Tea and Entertainment Is. each. For
Entertainment only 6d. Which may be had of Mr.
Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street.
ESSRS. HERNE AND WILLIAMS,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive
engagements for private sbances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.O. -
Aaron franklin, preserver of
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE,, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in groat variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847.
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
Heaven opened; or, messages
for the BEREAVED from our LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Through the mediumship of F. J. T. With
observations by Mrs. De Morgan. In neat cloth, Is. In
enamel wrapper, 6d. London: J. BURNS, 15, Southamp-
ton-row, Bloomsbury, W.C.
On the first of every month.
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Heywood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at
2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating the
Influence of the Mind on the Body, both in Health
and Disease, and the Psychological Method of Treatment,
by Rev. W. F. Evans, author of “ The Celestial Dawn,"
“ The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messenger,"
&c., &c., &c.
The design of this Treatise is to explain the nature and
laws of the inner life of man, and to contribute some
light on the subject of Mental Hygiene, which is beginning
to assume importance in the treatment of disease, and to
attract the attention of physiologists. The author has
aimed to illustrate the correspondence of the soul and
body, their mutual action and reaction, and to demonstrate
the casual relation of disordered mental states to diseased
physiological action, and the importance and mode of
regulating the intellectual and affectional nature of the
invalid under any system of medical treatment.
Glasgow: James M'Geachy, 89, Union-street.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper.
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
(JTontentg.
Mr. Otto Goldschmidt  ' 153
How the Spiritualist Newspaper Libelled Mr. Otto
Goldschmidt  153
The Daily Telegraph on Spiritualism 153
Science and Spiritualism 154
Spirit Lights  154
Mr. Home in Russia   155
Spiritualism in Wood-green 155
Professor Tyndall at a Spirit Circle:—Spiritualism
and Scientific Men—What is meant by “Har¬
mony” at Spirit Circles—The Relative positions
of Media, Investigators, and Spirits—Thought¬
reading—Is it reliable ?—The Value of Scientific
Education—What Dr. Tyndall did not do at a
Spirit Circle—A Delicate Part of the Story—A
Remarkable Buzzing Noise—The Mechanical
Power exerted by Spirits—What Dr. Tyndall did
do at a Spirit Circle—The General Character of
the S'eance—^Assertions—“ Uniform Experience ”
and Spiritualism—Spiritualism—Moral ... .;. 156
Poetry :—Our Little One  (... 158
Correspondence :—The Zouave Jacob, the Heal¬
ing Medium, 158; Spiritualism in the Bible, 158;
A Spirituul Stance Unsought, 158; The Message
from E. N. Dennys, 158; The Berners Club, 158;
Allen Kardee’s Reincarnation Theory, 168;
Electricity, Magnetism, and the Human Body,
159; Spirit Identity, 159; The Difficulties of
Investigators   ... ;.. ... 159
“Glimpses of a Brighter Land ” ...   j  159
Paragraphs:—Zouave Jacob, 155; Royal Society,
157; Spirit Drawing and Paintings, 157; Rein¬
carnation, 157; Spiritualism among the Quakers,
157; Messrs. Heme and William’s Mediumship 157
Answers to Correspondence   167
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
