A F^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREff Of THE gOIEjMCE /ND ETHICf OF fPI^ITU^JLIgM.
[EEGISTEEED FOE TEANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 37.—(Vol. II., No. 9.)
LONDON: SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1872.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Pourpence.
FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION OF “THE
SPIRITUALIST.”
After the fifteenth of October next The Spiri¬
tualist will be published fortnightly— namely, on
the first and fifteenth of every month, instead of
once a month as at present.
For additional particulars see a further notice
published in another column.
THE SPIRIT AND THE BODY.
The fundamental doctrine of Spiritualism, that the
body is but a machine for the expression of thought,
built up and governed by the invisible spirit within,
leads, if logically followed up, into fields but little ex¬
amined as yet by thinking men. The sensual man writes
his nature upon his face and body, in such a manner that
the trained student can with considerable accuracy read
his character from his external frame, and at the first
glance anybody can tell a philosopher from a prize¬
fighter, because of the different bodies the thoughts of
each have built up. The actions of the prizefighter, it
is true, proximately build up his powerful frame, but
his thoughts govern his actions in the first instance,
and, to still further follow the chain of causes, the
affections of a man govern his thoughts ; hence meta¬
physicians are agreed that love is very life of man, the
root of his nature. If these things be true, knowledge
of them should lead to useful results. What are those
results ?
If the affections flow into thoughts, and influence
their direction and character, and if the thoughts build
up the spirit of which the body is the visible expression
on the physical plane of being, it follows that influ¬
ences which effect changes in the thoughts and affec¬
tions, ought to have power over the body either for good
or ill. These speculations, therefore, among other
,problen}S, raise the questions—“ To what extent may
disease of the body be caused or removed by mental in¬
fluences ? What facts can be brought to bear to solve
the problem, and what experiments can be made to test
the truth of the facts ? ”
An interesting little book dealing with these pro¬
blems has recently been forwarded to us by the pub¬
lisher, Mr. M'Geachy, of Union-street, Glasgow. Its
title is “ The Mental Cure, illustrating the influence of
the mind on the body both in health and disease, and
the Psychological Method of Treatment, by the Rev.
W. F. Evans,” who we will now leave to speak for him¬
self, in the following few extracts from his book:—
THE RELATION1 OF SOUL AND BODY.
“ There have been three theories respecting the rela¬
tion of our outward organism to the interior spiritual
principle. Two of these recognise in their connection
the relation of cause and effect, but differ as to which
is the one or the other, which is prior and which is
posterior. The first theory is that of physical influx,
or that matter influences mind. This was taught by
Aristotle, and the sensualistic schools of philosophy in
all subsequent ages. By some, mind has been viewed
as the result of a sublimation of matter. This first
theory has appearance in its favour—an evidence always
unreliable and often deceptive.
“ The second is, that matter is influenced and governed
by spirit, and derives all its life from it. All its changes,
forms, and phenomena, are effects of which something
spiritual is the cause. This idea pervades the Car¬
tesian philosophy, and was adopted by Swedenborg,
“ The third is that of pre-established harmony, or
that neither acts upon the other, but both were made
to act in concert. This theory was advocated by the
celebrated Leibnitz. We are not aware that it is
seriously advocated by any one at present, and may be
left without further notice., It only belongs to the his¬
tory of human opinions. In the other two doctrines,
we choose between theism and atheism. If there be a
God, creation has gone forth from him. But God is a
Spirit. Consequently the material universe owes its
origin and its continued existence and control, to an
all-pervading Divine force, distinct from matter, as a
cause from an effect. But man is a microcosm, a world
in himself, and his body sustains the same relation to
the soul that the outward universe does to God. The
body without the spirit is dead. Consequently it has
no life of its own and in itself. Its vital force is
derived from the all-pervading spirit. It is an effect
of which the soul is the cause. As some one has
said, | The active plastic principle is the soul—the true
man, of which the body is but the external expression
and instrument.’ It is not merely the outward enve¬
lope of the interior man, but is pervaded by it, as light
is diffused through a crystal vase of water. Hence it be¬
comes transparent to all the states of the soul. Every
emotion expresses itself in the face. In a countenance
that has not been taught to dissemble, all the varying
affections and emotions of the mind are there visibly
displayed. Every change in our feelings, produces a
correspondent arrangement of the moving fibres of the
face. Here is a visible effect resulting from a spiritual
cause. But every part of the body corresponds to
something in the mind—the hands, the feet, the hair,
the brain, the stomach, the lungs, the heart, and all
internal organs. These have no vital action except as
they receive it by influx from the indwelling soul.
And every organ in our bodily structure, is only the
outward manifestation of a correspondent part and func¬
tion of our spiritual nature. Consequently, our mental
states affects the condition and action of the various
organs—in fact, are the body’s health and malady.'
They first influence the intermediate principle, denom¬
inated the spiritual body, then the brain and nerves,
and then the various organs. Every abnormal mental
state ultimates itself in a correspondent bodily condi¬
tion. Let us illustrate this by the effect of fear or a
sudden fright. It immediately quickens, and at the
same time weakens, the action of the heart. Its regular
contraction and dilatation are changed to a spasmodic
flutter. A nervous thrill is felt in the epigastric region
or pit of the stomach. This is in the diaphragm,
which loses its contractility, and becomes relaxed, so
that the respiratio’n is impeded and oppressed. The
blood retreats from the surface inward, and from the
extremities upward. Such are its immediate effects.
If the mental state producing this order of things
should become permanent, in the form of anxiety, the
corresponding bodily condition will be chronic. And a
common disease, called asthma, is the result. But fear
will no more really affect the body than any other
disorderly mental state. Melancholy, envy, jealousy,
anger, disappointed affection, produce each its specific
effect. All diseases originate in some abnormal states
of the mind, some disturbance or loss of harmony in
the inner man, and are but the ultimation, or passing
outward to the region of visible effects in the material
organism, of those disordered mental conditions. To
ascertain the nature and cause of the disturbed state of
mind underlying the physical troubles of a patient, is
of greater importance than an examination of the pulse
or tongue. If the action of the heart, the diaphragm,
the lungs, or the liver, is not healthy, we desire to
know what is the cause of their disordered physiological
manifestations. It is of no avail to apply chemical
preparations to a cause that chemistry cannot reach.
It is of no use to administer stimulants and tonics, when
the patient needs only encouragement and sympathy.
Why give opium and narcotic drugs, when it is only
the excited mind that needs to be quieted, and there
needs to be ‘ plucked from the heart a rooted sorrow ? ’
Why give physic to a man who only needs instruction
and ideas ? Says Dr. Taylor, - ‘ Diseases are perpe¬
tuated, if not produced, by catises over which mere
chemical influence cannot be presumed to exercise any
positive control. The fact may be, often is, tacitly
acknowledged by the physician, but he declines to in¬
vestigate its relations, so as to be able to turn them to
a useful account. He is unwilling to acknowledge in
practice, although he may admit confidentially, that
the headache, the nervousness, the heart disease, the
dyspeptic qualms which he is called upon to remedy,
are only indications of a peculiar morbid state of the
mind or of the emotional nature of the sufferer, which
it becomes him to meet directly, rather than to torment
his patient with an eternal round of palliatives. In
these cases, every medical prescription must be totally
irrelevant (though written in the best Latin), unless it
recognises the operation of causes existing in a sphere
quite beyond the reach of the most potent drug.’
“He further observes, ‘The jests.that used to be
hurled at the defenceless head of the practitioner who
dared to suggest that the thoughts, and feelings, and
mental habits of the invalid might need rectifying as
well as his bile and blood, are fast losing their point.
We are all beginning to suspect that perhaps, after all,
a disease may not be the less a disease because its
source happens to lie in an unruly imagination, or in
excessive activity, or wrong modes of thought. And
gradually—very slowly, to be sure—yet really, we think
people are waking up to the conviction that these in¬
tangible causes are not irremediable. They are be¬
ginning to see and understand that by this close union
and co-operation of the material and immaterial natures,
remedial agents may possibly find access to either or
both these avennes that otherwise could have no ex¬
istence. We have faith to believe that the time is near
at hand when the mental aspects and relations of
disease will receive an amount of attention equal to
that which has always been given to the pulse and the
tongue, the temperature of th'e skin, and colour and
consistence of the excretions.’
“ The body is an organisation of material substances,
by which we mean the arrangement of its particles so
as to form organs or instruments adapted to use. But
unless the particles’are self-moved, which no one but a
disciple of Epicurus would argue, the mind must be
the organising force. The body is only the evolution
of the mind, and the means of its external manifesta¬
tion. The whole material universe is the ultimation of
the spiritual world. The spiritual realm is the animus
mundi, the soul of the outward visible creation, and
the latter exists from the former.
“ The whole body is connected with the brain. By
means of the grand systems of ganglionic and sympa¬
thetic nerves, every organ is united to every other, as
by a sort of spiritual telegraph, and the whole with the
mind. This explains a mystery. It is known from
experience, and comes under the cognition of conscious¬
ness, that particular mental states or faculties act into
and affect certain organs of the body. It was given
the most remarkable man of modern history, ‘ to know
this from much experience.’ The influx of certain
feelings, which was first into the appropriate parts of
the brain, was seen to affect the organs of the body
that were in sympathetic connection with those por¬
tions of the cerebral structure. Those parts are like
the key of the telegraph. Place your finger upon them,
and your influence sends a message which is at once
recorded in the distant organ. Your mind in that way
acts upon that part of the cerebrum, and the bodily
organ, through the telegraphic nerves, responds
with a vibratory motion in harmony with your own
mental force. We have a thousand times in this
way affected sensibly to the consciousness of the pa¬
tient the functional activity of any part of the body.
But to do this, requires a knowledge of the ana¬
tomical structure not given the student in his usual
course of medical study. The heart, the lungs, the
diaphragm, the stomach, the liver, the kidneys, and
the intestinal canal, are all bound by sympathy with
certain parts of the brain, and the faculties of the mind
to which those parts correspond. Thus we are pre¬
pared to see more clearly still, the truth of a statement
previously made, that the states of the mind are ulti-
mated, or recorded, in corresponding bodily conditions,
and are the body’s health or malady.
“ The mind is not only to be divided into the two
distinct departments of the love and the intellect, but
there are three degrees or planes of mental life, like
the three storeys of a palace, or, more correctly, like
three concentric circles or spheres, each within the
other. The doctrine of the degrees of the mind is
imaged in the cerebral system. There are in reality
three brains. We have first the cerebrum, the large
brain, composed of the two kinds of substance of which
we have spoken. Then we have the cerebellum, or little
brain, about one-eighth part of the former in size, and
containing both kinds of cerebral substance; but what
is peculiar, the cineritious portion is internal, and the
fibrous external. Though smaller in size, it has far
more vitality. For these three brains are like the my¬
sterious books of the Sybil—as they decrease in quan¬
tity, they increase in value. Next we have the primi¬
tive brain, the medulla oblongata. It is that which is
first formed in the fetus, and the other portions of the
cerebral system proceed from it in order. It would
weigh but little more than the Koh-i-nor, the moun¬
tain of light, the celebrated diamond of Queen Victoria,
but is far more valuable. To one whose inner vision is
unveiled, there dart from it in every direction millions
of rays of a pure light into every part of the system.
It is much smaller than the cerebellum, but a million
times more sensitive and vital. These three distinct
brains, as we have reason to believe, are correspon¬
dences and organs of the three degrees of the mind.
Either may act by itself, or our mental activity, our
memory and consciousness, and perceptivity, may use
66
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 16, 1872.
either as its organ. In our normal state, and our
waking hours, we use the cerebrum as the instrument
of our thoughts and volitions. This in sleep becomes
quiescent, as we have had occasion to notice in cases of
fracture of the skull, where a portion of the cranium
has been removed. Its pulsations cease, and all is
still as the tomb. Its vital force has retreated back¬
ward and downward to the cerebellum. On the divid¬
ing line between sleeping and waking, the mysterious
dream-land, the mental powers become greatly exalted
and quickened, so that the experiences and percep¬
tions of hours, and even weeks and months, are crowded
into moments. The mind breaks loose from its
material thraldom, the limitations of time, place,
and sense, and asserts its innate freedom. It sees
without the external eye, and to distances almost
unlimited. It perceives distant objects, persons
and things, something as we see the image of an
absent friend in the mind, only with more objective
clearness, and they do not appear to be in the mind,
but external to it, like the scenery around us in
our every-day life. There are those who can enter this
state at will. It has become, in fact, their normal con¬
dition. We have experimented much with it, putting it
■to severe tests, a thousand miles away, and have found
it as reliable as our ordinary vision. The power of thus
suspending the action of the cerebrum, possessed by a
scientific person, is of great value in the diagnosis of
disease. It is a condition of the highest wakefulness,
though physiologically it is a state of sleep, and has
been denominated somnambulism. It may exist when
the external senses are not oblivious to the objects sur¬
rounding us. It is a waking up from their usually
dormant state of the undeveloped powers of. our inner
life. Like the apocalyptic angel, it breaks the seals of
the closed book of nature, and unrolls the parchment
on which are written characters that our usual vision
cannot read, and the wonders of an inner world pass in
panoramic review. The veil of sense, ordinarily opaque,
becomes transparent, and through it the interior man looks
out upon the universe. It is a state of illustration, or
interior illumination, which may be permanent, normal,
and attended with no loss of consciousness as to our
external surroundings. It is governed by fixed laws,
which may be the subject of education, but is none the
less a gift of God for this.’ Blessed is the man to whom
it has been given, and who consecrates it, with all his
activities, to the good of universal being.
“ In the trance, both the cerebrum and cerebellum
are quiescent (when it is with the individual subject an
abnormal state), and their vital force has passed to the
primitive brain, the medulla oblongata. The mind is
awakened to the most intense degree of activity and
power of which it is susceptible, in the present stage
of our existence. Usually, but not necessarily, there
is a loss of consciousness of the outward world. The
pulse sometimes becomes nearly or quite imperceptible.
The movement of the lungs is tacit, and the spiritual
body only breathes. But these are not necessary con¬
comitants of this interior state, for all the degrees of
the mind may be consciously active at the same time.
Persons may be developed normally into this almost
angelic range of the soul’s powers and activities. In
this degree of the inner life the heavens are opened, the
separating veil is rent, if not removed, the curtain is
rolled up, the invisible appears in sight, and the soul is
transported in its vision to the perception of the solid
and enduring realities of. a world veiled in darkness to
our common sight. In this degree of the unfoldment
of the soul’s life, man possesses in a degree the pro¬
perties and powers of a spirit, and may act upon others
as our guardian angels do, and seems to be a messenger
from another world, to demonstrate to mortals the
reality of its existence. Hidden imponderable forces,
to a certain extent, come under his control, and he may
appear to a sensuous w;orld as a Thaumaturgus, or
wonder-worker, and like a partially developed Messiah,
he heals all manner of sickness and disease among the
people. Such a mind has blossomed into angelic pro¬
portions.
“The next step beyond is what men have called
death. In every step and degree of progress towards
it the mental powers become more and more exalted,
and their range of action extended. Yiewed in this
scientific light death is seen to be only a transition to a
higher life. It cannot be a punishment for our sins,
but a necessary step and normal process in human
development. Having finished the work committed to
our hands, and accomplished our appointed use here in
the plan of Providence, when our friends shall call us
dead, we shall have only languished into life.”
THE INFLUENCE OF THOUGHT UPON THE HEAKT AND
LUNGS.
“ As the heart is everywhere present in the body by
its radiation into the, venous and arterial systems, so
the same is true of the lungs, though in the present
state of anatomical science it is not so clearly dis¬
cernible. The heart is first formed in the fetus, and
the lungs are an outgrowth from it. The six millions
of blood-cells are only the terminations of the branches
of the pulmonary veins and arteries proceeding from
the heart. Their air-cells, so numerous as to contain
a surface of one hundred and forty square feet, when
taken together, flow together into the bronchial tubes,
and these unite to form the trachse. But they are
all formed from the pericardium, the membrane invest¬
ing and interpenetrating the heart, and which sur¬
rounds and lines every vein and artery. The heart
and lungs, thus connected in their origin, sympathise in
their actions. The more rapid the respiration, the
faster beats the heart, and vice versa.
“ As the one corresponds to the love, so the other re¬
sponds to the action of intellectual nature. We are as¬
sured by our consciousness that our thoughts influence
the movement of the lungs. We may be as certain of
this as of our own existence. The more interiorly and
intently we think, the less we breathe. When our
thoughts are involuntary and passive, our respiration
is involuntary and tacit. In certain states of mental
abstraction, the breathing is almost or quite impercep¬
tible, as in the trance. When our thoughts are con¬
centrated upon some vigorous muscular motion, as
striking or lifting, we instinctively precede the effort
with a deep inspiration, which is a hint of great prac¬
tical importance. As every state of the affections in¬
fluences the movements of the cardiac system, so every
condition of the intellect affects the actions of the lungs.
These are primary vital motions in the organism,
whence, by derivation, all other motions exist, the
involuntary from the heart, and the voluntary from the
the lungs. As involuntary movements are attended
with no fatigue, or loss of nervous force, as the heart
is never tired; so our respiration, when not the result
of our volitions, never wearies us, however long and
incessantly it is continued. But voluntary and arti¬
ficial breathing is the most exhausting movement we
are capable of making. To rest ourselves, is to cease
from the latter, and to subside into the former. An
entire cessation of the contractions of the muscular
tissue of the heart, suspends the movements of the in¬
voluntary vital organs, but a suspension of respiration,
so that the breathing becomes tacit, only takes away
the power of voluntary muscular motion, and mhny
persons can do it for hours, as the Fakirs of India. It
is attended with great intellectual elevation. In pro¬
portion as the breathing is diminished or suspended,
the body becomes insensible to pain. Surgical opera¬
tions in this state would be less painful; in fact, this
suspended respiration and consequent insensibility, is
what is effected by chloroform. There have been per¬
sons who could induce upon themselves this state with¬
out the use of any ansesthestic agent. To direct the at¬
tention to a part, increases its vital action, and its'sen¬
sitiveness. To abstract the mind from it, deprives it of
feeling in proportion to the degree of mental absent-
mindedness. To keep our thoughts from an inflamed
and painful organ, is antiphlogistic, or cooling. The
vital action is lowered. To direct the mind and will
to a negative part, as cold feet, a paralytic limb, or
wherever there is a lack of vital force, infuses life into
it. Thus the mind contains in itself, when its spiritual
forces are intelligently directed to a given aim, more
potential virtues than can be found in a drug shop.
It can take away or add to the vital action of any
organ, and what more do the advocates of drug medi¬
cation profess to do, from their heroic practice, which
borders on manslaughter, to the homoeopathic and in¬
finitesimal doses, that are next to nothing, if not an
absolute nihility. But all these results in Mental
Hygiene are accomplished by the mind through its
influence upon the action of the heart and lungs.
“ A careful study of the connection between the
heart and lungs, their relation to each other, their reci¬
procal influence, and their correspondence with the two
general departments of the mind, would be fruitful in
results. The heart is a muscle whose contractions and
relaxations are not subject directly to our control. The
action of the lungs is both voluntary and involuntary,
as they are supplied with both kinds of nerves. When
we control their movement, they receive the necessary
stimulus from the cerebrum, which is the organ of our
voluntary life. When their movements are passive,
the nerve-force comes through the cerebellum, the
organ of our involuntary life. Harmonising with this
action of the pulmonary system, there is active and
passive thought. Our affections and emotions are not
directly under the control of our volitions. We cannot
love or hate, be joyful or sad, at the nod of the will.
We have emotions and feelings at times, from which
we would gladly be delivered, and there are other affec-
tional states we would fain possess, but they will not
come at our call. The affections may be indirectly in¬
fluenced by the intellect. So the action of the heart may
be changed through the lungs. There is a sympathetic
influence of the one upon the other. The heart and
lungs do not contract and expand synchronously, but in the
ratio of three to one, or the movement of the heart may
be represented by a measure in music composed of three
notes, while that of the lungs is a measure containing
one long note. But this does not destroy the harmony
of the rhythm. As there is a sympathetic connection
between the motions of the two organs, and as the lungs
obey the behest of the will, we are furnished with the
means of indirectly affecting the action of the heart.
If the heart beats too quickly and feebly, we have only
to breathe more slowly and deeply, and the heart will
adjust its systolic and diastolic movements in harmony
with the respiration, so as to preserve the ratio of three
to one. If the pulsations of the cardiac system are too
slow, then breathe faster, and the heart will conform to
the action of the lungs. They are like two horses har¬
nessed together to draw the chariot of life, but only one
of them obeys the rein, yet they feel an impulse to act
in harmony. If one starts ahead, the other soon follows.
The reins are attached to only one. If you wish to
change the movements of the other, you must do it
through the one connected with your hand. So if we
wish to change out emotions and feelings, we can do it
through the intellect. Change the direction of our
thoughts, and the affections will follow. How to induce
upon ourselves any desired mental state, will be the
subject of consideration hereafter.
“ In what has been said in the brief limits of this
chapter we may see more clearly the influence of the
states of the mind over the vital functions and processes
of the body. Any system of medical practice that does-
not recognise this great truth, is fundamentally and
radically defective. Physiology and anatomy must be
unsatisfactory and superficial, while they ignore the
spiritual organism of man. The true method of study
in natural science is to investigate the phenomena of
the outer world in relation to the inner realm of matter
in its connection with spirit. When we rise to the
perception of things in their causes, we can then under¬
stand effects.”
SPIEITUAL POWERS.
“ The spiritual senses are the common possession of
humanity. The opening of them, as it is called, in
certain persons, or rather their emancipation from their
material instruments, is apt to be looked upon as an
abnormal state, or as an extraordinary, if not mirac¬
ulous, vouchsafement. If, in the hour of the rending
off the external covering, and the transition of the inner
man to immortality, the spiritual world is unveiled
before the freed vision, and celestial voices and har¬
monies float in upon the enraptured inner ear, it is
deemed proper and right, and is accepted as what ought
to be. It is a consolation to surviving friends. In the
funeral oration from the pulpit, which is now usually
deaf, dumb, and blind to all spiritual realities, the com¬
forting fact is dwelt upon with much solemn eloquence.
But, if a person becomes sufficiently spiritual twenty-
five years before his departure to a higher realm, to
see, hear, and even converse with those who walk the
‘velvety soils’ of the land of perpetual spring, he is
looked upon with suspicion, sometimes treated with
neglect and contempt, and his sanity seriously called in
question. So inconsistent a thing is human nature.
In this way the world treated Emmanuel Swedenborg,
the most illumined mind of modern history.
“We believe, with the force of a prophetic convic¬
tion, that the time is coming, and draws near, when
men will be educated into the normal use of their spiri¬
tual senses. Then the spiritual world will no longer be
like those large blank spaces on the earlier maps of
Africa, marked ‘ Unexplored Territory.’ The youthful
imagination was wont to people this wondrous un¬
known region with all manner of men, animals, birds,
and creeping things. To. see and converse with those
on the shining shore, and to pierce the hidden depths
of the inner Tealms, will not be deemed-a more extra¬
ordinary occurrence, than our every day social inter¬
course with those who are in this outside circumference
of being. Such is the normal state of man, and may
God and angels help us to return to nature and come
into harmony with it. Only one thing is necessary to
the unveiling of our spiritual senses, and that is the
acquisition of the power of retiring behind the fleshly
curtain, so that the interior man may act independently
of the outward body. The main obstacle to this is the
want of real faith in the actual and substantial exist¬
ence of our interior self-hood—of a living personality
within the material organism. Attaining this, the veil
is rent and soon will be removed. As long as the out¬
ward body is viewed as the chief thing in our existence,
and fills the first place in our thoughts and affections,
the inner senses will be in bondage, and the spiritual
world shrouded in darkness. As soon as men become
assured, that the body is no necessary part of our man¬
hood, but the spirit is the real man, they will be able
to live independent of the material shell, free themselves
from its thraldom, the inner senses will be opened,
and they will become conscious inhabitants of a higher
world. In the development of the new age, now open¬
ing before man a higher earthly destiny, this may become
his normal state. The soul is sometimes freed, to a cer¬
tain extent, from its bondage to the fleshly covering, and
the spiritual senses are unveiled, by frequent fasting
and ascetic mortifications; by an immoderate use of
narcotics, as opium and hashish; by sickness, in which
the powers of the body are gradually weakened, by loss
of sleep, and drowning. These are all favourable to
the emancipation and manifestation of the soul’s interior
powers. Whatever weakens the body loosens the soul’s
connection with it, and, in the same degree, gives op¬
portunity for the independent exercise of the senses.
But these are abnormal; and hence undesirable, modes
of development. No method of unfolding our inner
Sept. 15, 1872. ,
67
THE SPIRIT UAL I ST.
powers is to be deemed desirable whicb unfits a man
for tbe duties and uses of our ordinary life.
“ It is one of tbe peculiar properties of tbe mind, or
spiritual essence, that it is not subject to the limitations
of time and space. These are the essential conditions
of what we call matter. It exists in time and fills
space, and is limited to the space it occupies. But the
human spirit is free from this confinement and restraint.
In the realm of spirit, time and space are not objective
realities, but subjective states, or as Kant expresses it,
‘ forms of the intellect.’ The spirit can be present, really
and substantially, with those who are miles away. It is a
common form of expression, not originated by Paul, but
arising from an intuitive recognition of its mysterious na¬
ture and powers, that we are present in spirit with cer¬
tain loved ones, though absent from them in body. Not
that our souls actually leave their bodies, for the con¬
nection between them is never dissolved but once, but
our mental presence and force seem to go forth to a
distance, and break loose from all spatial restraints.
For in another world the spirit moves not so much by
a passing from one point of space to another, as by a
change of state, and a transference of its force. In
this way we may appear to ourselves to journey miles
away, until we are present with some distant person.
Sometimes the intervening objects and scenery pass in
review, and may be described. We may influence the
thoughts and feelings of the distant one, with whom we
come into rapport, which is only a spiritual presence
and conjunction of two minds, in the same way, it is to
be presumed, that one spirit acts upon and into another
spirit in the world above. We often feel an indefinable
sense of the presence of persons, both those who are
still living in the flesh, and those who have passed to
the inner sphere of life. This is something most real,
and not the working of what we call imagination. It
usually occurs in connection with those with whom we
are in sympathy. Through the impression made upon
the spirit, the body, or any of its organs, may be
affected. For all psychological influences effect a
change in the physiological movements. In this way
life may be infused into any weakened part, pains may
be dispersed, and inflammations and congestions re¬
lieved. When examining a patient hundreds of miles
away, we have sometimes been sensibly affected with
their diseased state both of mind and body. Once where
the patient was troubled with almost perpetual nausea, it
occasioned vomiting in us. Such effects are common
in psychometrical examinations. If a patient can thus
affect a physician, not merely with mental impressions,
hut in a moment modify the functional action of the
bodily organs, can he not influence the patient as well ?
Availing himself of this mental law and force, he can
affect the physiological action of any organ in the body.
We have found many cases where this mode of treat¬
ment was even more efficient than the ordinary mes¬
meric manipulations. We devoted more than a year to
the study of the laws that govern this transmission of
vital force to a distance, and to experiments with it.
Most of the experiments made in psychology have been
of a trivial nature, and of no other value than the proof
they afford of the existence of a law of action and re¬
action between minds at a distance. Our experiments
were entered upon, not so much with the desire to
establish the reality of such an influence of mind upon
mind, as to see if it could not be turned to some impor¬
tant hygienic use. This has been satisfactorily demon¬
strated, and it has proved itself to be a sanative agency
to an extent far beyond our expectations. Many quite
desperate cases pf chronic disease have been cured in
this, to some, incredible way, in a few days. The rest
of this volume could be filled with authenticated facts
in relation to marvellous cures by the use of no other
, remedial agency.”
SPIRITUAL INTERCOURSE.
“ The mental stomach loathes the innutritious and
■unsavoury cookery of the church, which has only the
power to sharpen men’s appetites for something better.
We rise from its table with our inward hunger un¬
satiated, our thirst unquenched. We crave the vital
essence of truth itself, and not the external husk. Such
minds turn with instinctive longing to the opening
heavens, and seek, in communion with the angel-world
the living bread. This they do as intuitively as the
new-born infant seeks the maternal breast. We ask
our appointed teachers for bread, and get a stone, for
fish, and a serpent is served up for us; for an egg—for
a living germ of truth,—and are turned off with a
scorpion. We run over the ancient bill of fare, worn
and defaced, and find nothing which our mental in¬
stincts crave. We go through their round of outward
ceremonies, their genuflections, washings, prayers, and
psalm singing, rehearse an unintelligible creed, and like
a hungry man, dream we are filled, but awake, and be¬
hold we are empty.
“In such a state it is practicable for us to listen to
the voiceless instruction of the angel-world. No
miracle, no departure from the ordinary laws of the
spirit, is required to open a living intercourse with the
heavens. It is a fact, as well established as any prin¬
ciple of chemistry, that one mind can impress its
thoughts and feelings upon another, without the inter¬
vention of spoken words. Thousands of successful ex¬
periments have confirmedits truth and reality. We accept
it as a settled principle. Angelic spirits may impress
our delicately sensitive inner organism, as easily as they
are supposed to play upon a golden harp, and thus give
us an intuitive knowledge of the truths we need. A
larger proportion of our highest and best thoughts owe
their origin to this source, and come to us from the upper
realms, than we are aware of. We should receive
vastly more from those in the inner world who love us,
and long to share their celestial treasure with us, if we
had not been educated to fear them, and even to believe
that intercourse with them is wicked, notwithstanding
Jesus set us the example of communion with the ever¬
present heavens. Such teachers take away the key of
knowledge. They will neither enter the temple of wis¬
dom themselves, nor suffer others, whom they can
prevent, to do so. In consequence of this unnatural
education, there is many a one who would be as much
afraid of the spirit of his mother, as he ought to be of
the mediaeval devil. But the desire to communicate
good and truth to man on earth is as natural for good
spirits, as it is for water to descend from a higher to a
lower level. It is the delight of their life. It is some¬
thing like what we observe in ourselves here. If
your loved and loving friend is removed from you, how
he longs to see you and speak to you. If there was any¬
one you needed to make you well and happy, if it were
possible for him to speak to your inner ear, how gladly
would he inform you where to find it. This longing,
this'pang and chasm of separation, which we feel when
we are absent from loved ones, is but an expression of
the same feeling that leads those above to desire to com¬
municate their better thoughts and feelings to those
below. It would be painful for us to visit one we loved
and fail in our attempts to cause him to recollect us,
and to have him fly from us as from one who would
do him injury. These are natural feelings, be¬
longing to the very essence of the soul, and are carried
over with us to the other life. When we outgrow
our unnatural fear of our best friends, and do not fly
from their love as if it-were an infernal hate, and wel¬
come their return to us, and recognise them in their
true character, converse with the upper sphere of being
will be more frequent and elevating. We have reason
to believe, that in consequence of this unnatural feeling
which we owe to our want of proper education, and
our dismal doubts of their real existence, our friends
who have migrated to the celestial plains, feel our loss
as much as we do 'theirs. It must be unpleasanat for
a child who returns home from a journey to a foreign
clime, to the parents he loves, and to whom he longs to
impart the rich stores of information he has gained, to
have them be frightened at his approach, refuse his
offered treasures, and close the door in his face.”
CANON CALLOWAY ON PSYCHOLOGICAL
PHENOMENA.
No. 2.
We now give a further portion of the paper by the Rev.
Canon Calloway, M.D., of Natal, read before the Anthropo¬
logical Institute. There is more to follow:—
SYMPATHY AND PRESENTIMENT.
Let us now proceed to the second division of our subject,
that of Sympathy and Presentiment. On entering upon it I
am at once conscious of having to deal with a far more shadowy
and difficult class of phenomena, than that we have hitherto
been considering. It may not be difficult to understand the.
nature of dreams and of many other allied phenomena which
I have termed brain-sensations. But there are so many difficul¬
ties in the way of an accurate observation and of a faithful
collection of facts relating to sympathy, that perhaps compara¬
tively few persons are disposed to believe in the reality of such
a thing: and even though there may be scarcely any one who
has not had more or less some knowledge of it in his own ex¬
perience, yet few like to speak of it, or speak of it as acciden¬
tal,—as a mere curious coincidence. But let us not forget
that there is nothing more unscientific than to believe in the-
accidental at all. There is and can be no such thing. All
things that happen must have their causes, and there must be
laws regulating the operation of such causes, whether we can
at present trace them out or not.
It will be clear when I speak of sympathy, I am not in¬
tending to speak merely of that form of it which is produced
by the external knowledge of facts, capable of calling forth
sympathy or compassion. This is a kind of sympathy which
requires no illustration, and it does not belong to the subject
we have in hand, except in such cases as those in which it
gives rise to remarkable phenomena of an epidemic character.
There are some cases in which the sympathy appears to be
simply physical or bodily; in which the body $eems to act as
a mere machine, not only independent of, but in opposition to
the mind. In other words, just as a magnet can be made to
alter its direction by bringing a piece of iron near it • so the
human body is njade to perform involuntary movements in
obedience to the influence of certain external excitants.
We all know how infectious yawning is. It is generally sup¬
posed that we yawn in sympathy only with those we love.
But the same result follows if a pair of tongs is gradually
opened or the hands slowly separated, before the face of an
unsuspecting looker-on. The mouth opens in concert with
the opening tongs or hands.
It is said that a professor of a foreign university had a
peculiarity which caused his lower jaw readily to dislocate.
He was apt to be prosy and lengthy in his lectures. The
students being well aware of his infirmity would, when wearied,
attempt to catch his eye, and then yawn. The unfortunate
professor yawned in sympathy, and the lower jaw was dis¬
placed. The lecture ne9essarily came to an abrupt close, and
the happy students escaped.
A sick lady was lying in a room adjoining a merry party of
young people; and as their joyous laughter reached her she
was forced to laugh in sympathy, without knowing why, and
even though it caused her much suffering.
It is on the same principle that a child, living with a person
that has any peculiar habit, such as jerking up one shoulder,
is very apt, especially if a delicate child, to take up the habit
from sympathy. And it is not well to allow a delicate, sensi¬
tive child to be much in the company of one suffering from
chorea or St. Yitus’s dance, for it is very likely to be affected
with the malady.
Crying is also very infectious. The sobs of one hysterical
girl will often spread by sympathy to all the inmates of a hos¬
pital ward.
But such cases properly belong to those extraordinary phe¬
nomena which have sometimes affected hundreds at a time by
sympathy, which are too interesting to be lightly passed over,
and require a separate consideration. On a future occasion
we may discuss this subject of Epidemic Nervous Affections.
There may be also a sympathy in crime. We all perhaps
can remember instances where the mere publication of some
fearful, unheard of crime, has soon been followed by the com¬
mittal by others ojsimilar atrocities. The mind for the time
is thrown off its balance, and is unreasonably urged on to be
guilty of the very evil which has shocked it, and which it
abhors.
It seems hardly necessary to allude to the extent to which
this principle of sympathy acts in the world. It is the bon'd
of association. It is the cause of parties. Love of country
and of family spring from it. Sympathy together in some
great principle causes an indignant nation to rise in rebellion,
to overthrow dynasties, and establish a new order of things.
The principle may have existed for years ; aye, for generations,
as the abstract thought only of the philosophic thinker in his
study; it may have been asserted here and there for centuries,
and yet have remained absolutely inactive and apparently
fruitless; it may even have been a proscribed principle; and
dread forebodings have issued against it from those “dark
niches of partial knowledge,” in which individual ignorance
and prejudice are wont to ensconce themselves, and as infal¬
lible judges issue their valedictions against the progress of
man, because as yet there has been no sympathy with it in
the general mind. It has therefore been as a small fire
smouldering in the midst of materials not combustible. But
as soon as the general mind grasps it and takes it in; or as
soon as some strong mind, capable of carrying with it that of
the masses, arises to give it advocacy, it bursts forth into an
overwhelming conflagration which sweeps over the barriers of
ages.
.But there is a sympathy of another kind, which brings
people into relation with each other without external visible
causes. And under the term sympathy I here mean—a being
brought into communion with others—a having a common
feeling with others; or having a consciousness, more or less
accurate of what is going on in places at 'a distance, or in
reference to things with which the mind has no. visible, ex¬
ternal means of communication.
And I think I shall be able to adduce a sufficient number of
instances to satisfy you, that as in the dream there is brain
sensation, either entirely independent of external things or
only partially dependent on them ; so there may be brain- sen¬
sations leading to a distinct consciousness of what is going on
in the minds of others either present with us or absent from
us ; and also of places or of things without any visible, external
causes whatever. Or to bring the meaning of what I would
say at once before you in one clear, distinct sentence,—there
is a power of clairvoyance, naturally belonging to the human
mind; or in the words of a native speaking on this subject,
“ there is something which is divination within man ;” words
strongly like those of Socrates, who in his “ Apology” speaks
of “ natural inspiration ” as being that under which poets act
as well as prophets and seers.
The most simple form in which this power is manifested is
in those unreasoning sympathies which draw people at first
sight to each other; there is a mutual consciousness of mutual
adaptation one to the other. Or in those unreasoning sym¬
pathies which repel them, where there is a mutual conscious¬
ness of mutual unfitness one for the other. Or the sympathy
and repugnance may be on one side only.
On the other hand, perhaps, we have all known instances in
which the presence of another, with or without words,- seems
to shed a genial glow around, to give a sense of comfort and
support.
Hankinson, in his beautiful poem, “ The Ministry of Angels,”
alludes to this, and ascribes it to angelic influence :—
“ Dream rather, when around the social hearth
A warmer sense of social bliss is shed
That angels share and sanctify the mirth.”
And again:—
“ Some blessed spirit, at our side,
Doth strengthen, solace, guard and guide:
The eye beholds it not, the ear
Repents not of its presence near;
Yet well the soul her friend descries
And all unhelped by ear or eyes
’  listens and replies.”
But what is angelic influence ? How is it brought to bear
on the human spirit without the aid of the senses ? What is it
in man that can hold communion, if such communion there
be, with spirits of another sphere ? Is it possible that as a
man’s own spirit can act on his brain and produce by an effort
of the will an image without an object, so spirits from other
worlds can act on it, and give rise to brain-sensations without
the medium of the senses ? We will speak of this possibility
presently.
The belief in sympathetia recognition of brood-relations, one
of the other, is an article of the untaught Zulu’s creed.
To the same class of phenomena belong those unreasoning
apprehensions of coming evil; or anticipations of coming joy,
which are sometimes realised.
Then further, without any apparent reason, one is some¬
times drawn to a certain place, or urged to do a certain thing;
and remarkable results follow. Or without knowing why, we
go and put our hand on something we have lost, and have for
some time vainly searched for. Or we are held back from
doing a thing, or from going to a certain place, sometimes
against our will and judgment, sometimes with a distinct but
unfounded presentiment of evil; and the resuff shows that the
evil would have reached us had we not attended to the
warning.'
Very much Of all this must no doubt be attributed to what
may be called “ tricks of the memory,”—to “association of
ideas,”—to “ an instinctive power of judging of character by
the physiognomy,”—to “ states of bodily health,” &c. Pro¬
bably more still will be clearly traceable to such causes, when
the laws of their operation are better understood. And I have
no doubt that all will ultimately be removed from the super¬
natural or extra-natural,—words which are often nothing more
68
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 15, 1872
than refuges for our own ignorance,—and be referred to esta¬
blished laws. And what if it should turn out during the
investigation that man has really the power of communicating
with the spirit-world and of taking cognisance of external
things without the medium of the senses, and that the phe¬
nomena we are considering are the dim outshadowing of such
a power in a state of embryonic weakness ? For as true men
of science who are not searching for facts to support a foregone
conclusion, but are striving to collect and interpret them as
the only means of forming a correct theory, we shall not omit
to note that it not unfrequently happens that such impres¬
sions, whether of sympathy or antipathy,—of approaching
danger or joy, are utterly wrong, and unjustified by the result.
They may not only be unreasoning, but utterly unreasonable.
And this fact would suggest that such phenomena are the
result of a weak and untrained natural power, exerting itself
hesitatingly and uncertainly, rather than of communications
from a higher order of beings, whether good or evil.
Let us now consider a few examples which cannot, as it
appears to me, be explained by any of the above or similar
causes.
SriEXTTJAI, PHENOMENA. AMONG THE QUAKERS.
I have myself known of several cases in which a person’s
thoughts have been distinctly recognised and related without
any possible external means, by which they could have been
communicated.
One case especially occurs to me.
A lady and gentleman were on their way to spend the
evening at a friend’s house. Their conversation during their
walk was of a very peculiar character; so peculiar, and so
known to themselves alone, that it was quite impossible for
any one to guess it. On reaching the friend’s house, an aged
gentleman that was there, one of the Society of Friends, re¬
peated to them in the most exact manner the subject of their
conversation; and even, in some particulars, almost in the
exact words they had themselves used.
Such occurrences are by no means uncommon in this
society, and among others who hold mystic views. Many
such are recorded as having happened among the Irvingites
during the early history of that body.
Some of you, perhaps, remember the celebrated trial of
a man named Tawell, who some years ago was convicted and
executed for the murder of a woman with whom he had for
years cohabited, and by whom he had several children.
The history of this man is most remarkable. When young
he was taken into the employ of one of the Society of Friends.
Here he soon began to assume all the external pecuharities
which used to mark that body, and it was generally supposed
in consequence that he belonged to them. But this was not
the case. I believe he tried on several occasions to obtain
admittance as a member, but something undefined prevented
it. After his return from transportation for forgery he assumed I
a yery devout and grave deportment, and more than once
applied to be admitted. But one of the committee appointed
to consider his application, a physician since dead, opposed it.
His objection was founded on the feeling of antipathy to
which I have alluded, for at that time he had all the appear¬
ance of a reclaimed, respectable, religious character, and
nothing was known against him; but he was not admitted.
I call up this case not for the purpose of pointing out
this instance of unreasoning antipathy, but to relate one or
two facts in the history of this man, which are remarkable
instances of what I have ventured to call natural clairvoyance,
or inner sight.
To all appearance Tawell was a respectable man, carrying
on business in London. But one day, a friend now dead,— a
loving, venerable, warm-hearted philanthrophist, to whom it
would be hard to think evil of any one, and who was ever
ready to excuse and speak gently of the erring,—had his
thoughts' immovably fixed on this Tawell. He could not tell
why. He in vain attempted to turn his mind to other things ;
and if he succeeded in turning away his thoughts from him
for a moment, they only rushed back to him more impetuously,
and dwelt upon him with a still greater tenacity. And these
unreasoning thoughts gradually took a distinct form,—the
form of an apprehension that Tawell was about to commit a
capital offence; and this was soon followed by a sense of duty
to go and tell him. This, as you may well suppose, was a
most painful—a really terrible state of mind to be in in reference
to another. He had no reason for supposing this strange,
strong impression to be true. What if he obeyed it, and it
proved to be false ? What would Tawell say ? What would
others think of him who could allow such imagination^ re¬
specting an innocent man to arise or exist for a moment in his
mind ? But he could not shake off the impression, nor the
sense of duty. He went to Tawell’s house. Even when he
got so far he found it hard to enter. He walked backwards
and forwards several times before he gave the knock which
finally necessitated him to take some action. He was ushered
into Tawell’s presence, and without much ceremony, and in
much apprehension, addressed him in some such words as
these“ John, I come to tell thee that I believe thou art on
the eve of committing a crime which will bring thee to the
gallows.” Tawell was astonished. He buried his face in his
hands, and burst into tears. After a time he composed him¬
self, and opening his desk took out some forged money-papers,
which he was about to attempt to get cashed.
At that time forgery was a capital offence. He tore up the
papers in the presence of his friend, and was for the time
saved. But subsequently, when the law as regards forgery had
been altered, he was convicted of the offence and transported.
But the history of this man provides us with still another
remarkable instance of this clairvoyant power.
Tawell was living in the country. He went to London with
his wife. On Sunday as usual they attended a Quaker’s
meeting. A preacher from Yorkshire was there, a total
stranger to Tawell. This preacher arose and told the assembly
that a distressing feeling had taken possession of his mind,
which he could not account for, but on the supposition that
someone present was contemplating an act of external wicked¬
ness and atrocity; and added that if the warning were un¬
heeded, the unknown person he was addressing would never be
warned again. As they quitted the meeting, Tawell’s wife said
to him, “ Why, one would think we had a murderer amongst
us,” little dreaming that at that moment her own husband was
actually contemplating the committal of the crime, which
shortly after led to his execution.
In this case, which is perfectly authentic, and with one of
the parties concerned in it I was myself intimately acquainted,
there are several things worthy of notice. Tawell seems to
have possessed a mind very readable by those who were gifted
with inner sight. Of this he would seem to havd had an in¬
stinctive consciousness; but all his attempts to conceal his
real self by external peculiarities were in vain. Yet observe
neither of his wives (he was twice married), his constant com¬
panions, had any knowledge of his real character. They could
not read his mind. They were deceived, and satisfied by the
external. Neither his first wife, when he was about to issue
forged papers, nor his second when he was about to commit
murder, nor the guilty companion of his illicit love when she
was about to become his victim, knew anything of what was
going on within him. They could know only by the senses.
In the first instance an acquaintance recognised only an in¬
tended capital offence, without knowing what. In the last,
a perfect stranger is cognisant only that some unknown person
is contemplating the committal of an atrocious crime, which
Tawell’s wife interprets to him to appear to mean murder.
The usual interpretation would be that the seers were inspired
men,—immediately and directly inspired for the purpose of
warning Tawell. I incline to the somewhat different view,
that the seers, being possessed of the natural gift of clair¬
voyance, saw what others, not possessed of the gift, could not
see ; and so were used as a means of warning, which others,
not possessed of the gift, could not he. This view reconciles
much that will be found to seem, and to be inconsistent in
such manifestations; easily understood if supposed to arise
from the working of a weak, untrained, and undeveloped
natural power: hard to be understood if referred to the im¬
mediate suggestion of a higher Being.
DREAMS AND IMPRESSIONS.
A pious lady with whom I was intimately acquainted when
a boy, the mother of one of my schoolfellows, related to me
the following very remarkable dream.
She lived some miles, perhaps fifty or sixty from a clergy¬
man of her acquaintance. This clergyman was no honour to
his cloth, hut was a wild, reckless, riotous man. The lady was
much interested in him, and was very anxious to see him become
a different character, and fulfil aright the duties of his sacred
office. One night she dreamt of him. It does not appear that
there was any particular reason for her dreaming of him at all at
that time. But she dreamt that intelligence was brought to
her that he had been guilty of self-murder by hanging him¬
self. On awaking she was under the greatest apprehension.
Sh$ thought nothing was more likely than that he might be
forced to awake, by some circumstance, from his dream of
folly and sin, and that he might, in the first overwhelming
remorse of the moment, lay violent hands on himself. She
could not get rid of the impression, and determined to write
to him and tell him her dream. It was some time before she
received any answer to her letter; but when she did, she won¬
dered much at the strange sympathy into which she had been
brought with him. Having thanked her for her letter, he said
he thanked God her dream was not true, and he trusted it
never would be. He' had not been guilty of self-murder. But
on the very night of her dream he was lying in a state of dan¬
gerous illness, and apparently in momentary risk of being
suffocated by a quinsy sore throat!
This account is peculiarly interesting, and suggestive. It
appears that by some unknown power—that which we are
calling sympathy—this lady was made conscious of the bodily
condition of her friend, but the sympathy was not sufficiently
perfect to enable her to recognise the exact cause of her suffer¬
ings; she felt, as it were, that he was in danger of being
strangled; that is all the sympathy suggested, and her own
subjective thoughts supplied a cause,—a false cause, and sub¬
stituted the cord of the suicide for the swollen throat of
quinsey.
t A somewhat similar instance is the following :—
A gentleman of nervous temperament—just that modifica¬
tion of the nervous system which would dispose him to become
the subject of such impressions—was one day taking a walk,
when he waS suddenly seized with a feeling of great apprehen¬
sion, and an impulse to return home, and at the same time he
felt as though he was being suffocated. He hastened home,
and found that one of the maidservants had just been rescued
from drowning, having fallen into a well.
The following is an instance of a somewhat similar character,
occurring among the natives of Natal
A woman, named Umamakgohoza, was alone digging a piece
of ground at some distance from her home. All the people of
the village were away; the men gone to hunt, the women to
dig, and the children, who had been left in charge of the place',
had gone to the river to bathe and play. As she was digging
she was seized with a sudden and very strong impression that
she must go home immediately. At first she resisted it, but
there was, as it were, a voice which continued to importune
her, saying, “Get away;' get away.' Go home; go home.”
At length she threw down her pick and seed, and ran home
as fast as she could. On drawing near the village she saw a
fire rapidly approaching the huts, and at once cutting down
the branch of a tree she proceeded to beat out the flames.
But for obedience to this impression, the whole village would
have been burnt to the ground.
But if we would really understand the meaning of such
phenomena, we must record all cases of such impressions; not
only those which had, as in this instance, an important result,
but those also which turn out to be mistakes. I therefore
relate the following:—
A lady, a member of a Dissenting persuasion, had'scarcely
taken her seat in the meeting-house one Sunday morning
when she was seized with a strong impression that her house
was on fire, and that she must go home without delay. After
contending with the impression for some time, she quitted the
meeting, and went home, where she found nothing the matter.
We must be prepared to admit, in such cases, that it is pos¬
sible that some unknown evil was averted by her obeying the
impression. It is quite possible that some real danger was
imminent, that her inner sight recognised the existence of the
danger, without recognising its nature.
A native of Natal was sent out by his employer with a gun
to shoot game. He wandered about all day, but had no sport.
Beturning home in the evening by the nearest path which led
directly to his kraal, he felt a strong impulse, almost as if a
hand was laid upon him, drawing him round, and forcing him
to go by a much further way by a path which led to the back
of his village. After contending for some time with the im¬
portunate impression, he at length addressed it as though it was
really a person contending with him, “Well, well then, I will
go.” As he was going along he saw something dark lying in
the grass. At first sight he thought it was a dead bullock, but
on going up to it, found it was a large bush buck, which had
not been long dead. On examining it, he found on its neck
the marks of a leopard’s teeth and claws. It had been attacked
by the wild beast and had succeeded in shaking it off, but not
till it had received its own death wound. By obeying the im¬
pression he got a good day’s sport.
A gentleman left his home one morning, leaving all things
apparently well. As he travelled onwards he was several
times, without any known reason, seized with a painful appre¬
hension respecting one member of his family ; and this was re¬
peated at intervals during the day. But on the following
morning on awaking it was repeated with increased intensity,
and lasted for a considerable time, and then passed off, and
did not recur. He could not tell why he was apprehensive.
But it appeared to him that the person who was presented to
his thoughts was engaged in a painful struggle. On his return
home a week or so afterwards, he found there had been suffi¬
cient ground for his apprehension. Although on his depar¬
ture there was no reason to suppose that anything untoward
would arise, yet soon after a difficulty occurred, arising from
the misconduct of a dependent, which was only finally over¬
come on the morning of the second day, at the very time when
the feeling of apprehension was most distressing and per¬
manent.
A lady, living in the North of England, had sent out her
children to take a walk with the servants on the seashore. As
she was sitting alone, a poetic impulse came over her, and she
penned some lines, in which are the following stanzas:—
“ Little feet of many sizes,
Lightly presssd upon the sand,
Till the tide at evening rises,
To erase them from the strand.
******
“ Soon beneath the spreading billow,
Those light steps will fade away;
Soon reclined on earth’s dark pillow,
They who left them will decay."
Whilst the good mother was writing these lines her children
were struggling “ with the spreading billow,” which had arisen
unexpectedly and “ erased their footsteps from the sand,” and
shortly after they were brought home to her dead.
The natives of Natal believe in sympathy, by which
they are made conscious of what is happening at a distance
from them; and there are certain recognised signs among them
by which it is attended.
Thus they may have an absent friend brought forcibly be¬
fore them, as being in some danger, and at the same time be
affected with the cceliac passions ; or tears may come into
their eyes without any known cause; or there may be simply a
something in them,—an inner voice, which tells them that
their friend is ill or dead.
An old man who had cataract in each eye, referred his blind¬
ness to the following circumstance. He said his son had gone
out to battle. During the day he was suddenly seized with
blindness, and felt at the same time a strong impression that
his son was killed. This turned out to be the case.
Or sympathy with the absent may be felt only at night.
During sleep he sees his friend, as he is lying sick or dead;
and sometimes, it is said, if he has been killed, he sees the
very wound that has caused his death.
TJmpengula was engaged in service at Pietermaritzburg.
He dreamt that he saw his brother Undayeni dressed in his
finest attire and dancing at a wedding. On awaking he had
a strong impression that his brother was dead. He could not
shake off the impression, and involuntarily tears came con¬
tinually into his eyes, and he looked constantly in the direc¬
tion by which a messenger must come from his home. During
the morning a messenger came. On seeing him, he said, “I
know why you are come. Undayeni is dead.” He was dead.
But here again I would point out what is a Very important
fact when we come to consider the real significance of such
phenomena, that on another occasion he had a similar impres¬
sion that he should receive intelligence of my own death;
which, as you see, turned out to be false.
In connection with this part of our subject I relate the fol¬
lowing remarkable account of a spectre:—
Two young French nobles, the Marquis de Bambouillet and
tbe Marquis de Precy, neither of them much more than
twenty-five years of age, were destined for the army, and when
about to join their regiments they discussed together the
events of this life, and the probability of a future state. They
doubted whether, on the occurrence of death, the soul might
not, before leaving this earth for ever, visit a friend, and each
promised the other that in case of their falling victims during
the battle, the one dying should visit his surviving companion^
At the end of three months the Marquis de Bambouillet went
to Belgium, where the war had broken out. De Precy was
seized with a violent fever, which compelled him to remain at
Paris. Six weeks after, when De Precy was convalescent, he
-heard, as he was lying in bed, about five o’clock in the morn¬
ing, somebne draw the bed curtain, and on turning ijound to
see from whence the noise came, to his great astonishment he
saw De Bambouillet booted and spurred. He jumped out of
bed immediately, and rushed.to throw his arms around his
neck ; but Bambouillet retreated several steps, and told him
he had only come there to fulfil the promise he had made ;
that he had been killed the previous day in the trenches ; that
all that had been said of another world was true; that he
ought to think of living a different life; that he had no time
to lose, for he would himself be shortly killed. The astonish¬
ment of De Precy may he well understood. Not believing what
he heard, he made still further attempts to embrace his friend,
whom he imagined was laughing at him. His efforts were
vain. He found he was embracing air. And Bambouillet,
pitying his incredulity, exhibited to him the wound he had re¬
ceived. It was in the region of the kidneys, and blood seemed
still to flow from it. The phantom then disappeared. De
Precy was much agitated, and soon reported the vision to the
whole house.—^Psychology, J. 1848, p. 597.
Now here is a spectre of a very precise and obliging charac¬
ter. It is just one which will satisfy the most ardent admirer
of ghost stories, and the most firm believer in the objective
reality of such ghosts. But there is just this little difficulty:
Bambouillet was not killed; neither was the prophecy of De
Precy’s speedy death verified ! It is very provoking, certainly.
But it cannot be helped.
Such impressions are frequently false. We are not, there¬
fore, to d^ny that they are ever true. But rather inquire if
there is any way by which we may be able to distinguish the
one from the other.
The following is an instance of sympathy giving a correct
impression:—
A lady, one of the Drummonds, when a girl, came rushing
into the house in the greatest alarm, and declared that her
brother,. who had manifested some symptoms of mental
derangement, had passed her in the garden with his head
covered with blood. Search was immediately made for him,
and he was found dead in a churchyard, some distance from
the house, having blown out his hrains with a pistol. This
was related by the lady’s husband to my informant. The lady,
a very talented person, herself died deranged. It h&s been
truly said, great wit is akin to madness. Equally true it is
that persons possessed of this high strung nervous system,
which is capable of such clairvoyance, are very likely to be¬
come the subjects of insanity.
SECOND SIGHT.
We all, probably, know more or less of what is called
“ second sight,” which appears to he a kind of sympathetic
THE SPIRITUALIST
69
Sept. 15, 1872.
and prophetic instinct—a natural clairvoyance. It is often an
hereditary gift, and what is more remarkable is often possessed
only when at home in the northern island homes of the seers.
When they quit these the power of second sight ceases, to
return again when they return to their native place. We thus
have suggested to us another cause of these- remarkable
phenomena, that they may be excited by endemic or local cir¬
cumstances. And we are reminded of the Delphic prophetess
who became ecstatic, and gained her power of divination, such
as it was, by inhaling the fumes which proceeded from a
cavern over which the temple was built. It will not be worth
while to quote examples of second-sight from books ; I shall
only mention an example or so. The following was related to
me by a gentleman who heard it from the person to whom it
occurred:—
The Highland gentleman, whom I mentioned in the former
paper as having seen the spectre of a woman’s arm, belonged
to an important clan, the mere mention of the name of which
was enough to ensure him a welcome throughout the high¬
lands. All the wildness and venturesomeness of the highland
character were fully developed in him, and he was in the
habit, from mere excess of physical vigour, of taking walks
across country; nothing stopped him; he went straight on
over every obstacle. One evening he found himself in an un¬
known place, and could see no sign of inhabitants in any
direction. He came to a stream, and thought that by pursuing
its course he should probably fall in with some shepherd’s hut.
Having gone down the stream for some distance, he saw an
old man sitting on a bridge. On coming up to him the old
man said, “ I have been waiting for you.” “ How,” replied
the traveller, in astonishment, “ could that be, when you do
not even know me ?” The old man replied, “ You are So-and
So,” mentioning the name of his clan. “ I have known of
your coming these two days.” He took him to his cottage,
and there explained to him that he had the gift of second
sight. During the evening he told him some of the most
hidden secrets of his past life, and prophesied that he would
die a violent death before he was forty years old. I do not
know whether this prophecy has been fulfilled.
The native Undayeni, whom I have mentioned above, was
possessed of a similar power, which came on after a severe
prolonged struggle with a leopard, which nearly cost him his
life, and left him a broken constitution, and irritable nervous
system. This man used, by his inner sight, to become con¬
scious of people who were coming to the kraal before they
were visible. He used also to dream correctly of the position
of game, and the accidents of the hunt. Being a man entirely
out of health, he was unable to go far from home, and knew
nothing of the neighbourhood of a new place where they had
lately settled. But one morning he called the boys of the
kraal to him, and said, “ Boys, is there a place on the hills
where there is a hollow stone, in which there is usually water,
and where you are in the habit of washing yourselves ?” They
said there was. He told them to bathe there no more, for he
had seen it in his sleep, and someone had put bad medicines
in it, which would injure them.
I have been told that a member of my own family possessed
a somewhat similar gift—that is, she was the subject of im¬
pressions, and saw spectres,, by which she knew beforehand
and prophesied of deaths and marriages, which would occur in
the neighbourhood of whpre she lived.
The conditions of the nervous system which we have been
considering, and which some even in the present day seem
anxious to ascribe to the direct interference of spiritual beings
from other worlds can be induced by artificial means. There
are then:—
. i. Medicines.
2. The will of one person brought to bear on the nervous
system of another. You will at once see that I mean mes¬
merism, a word which we retain rather than use such terms as
animal magnetism, &c., which imply a theory which we are
not prepared to admit to be correct, and which at least requires
a much more rigid investigation of facts for its justification.
3. Self-abstraction—that is, the action of the will of an in¬
dividual on his own nervous system. This may be termed
self-mesmerism.
THE PSYCH0L0G1CAX INFLUENCE OF OPIUM.
1. Medicines.
Opium, if taken in certain quantities, produces a feeling of
luxurious tranquillity; external objects, though they may be
accurately reported by the senses to the brain, do not convey
through the brain to the mind an accurate conception ; they
are exaggerated, multiplied, coloured, and clothed in all kinds
of fantastic garbs. And if the eyes be closed, the mind,
though still awake, passes into a kind of dreamland; splendid
forests arise before it, and scenery of surpassing beauty. A
theatre is lighted up in the brain; graceful dancers perform
the most captivating evolutions ; music of unearthly character
floats along, and poesy, whose harmonious numbers and whose
exciting themes are far beyond the ordinary power of the
mind, is unceasingly poured forth. The mind listens and is
enchanted; it does not work. It is all in exquisite indolence,
during which dreams spontaneously arise, brilliant, beautiful,
and exhilarating.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCE OF HASHISH.
The Indian hemp, the hashish of the Arabs, the daka of
the Hottentots, the insangu of the natives of Natal, produces
visions of a most extraordinary character, from which we at
once learn the origin of the otherwise unaccountable fantasies
which we find in the “Arabian Nights Tales” of gigantic
Efreets, huge Jinn, and monstrous beings of the upper air or
lower world.
Under its influence the mind is unable correctly to take
cognizance of external things through the material organs—
the brain and senses. The eye and ear are alive with a new
intensity to every impression, but each impression conveys to
the mind a false statement: if the object presented be of a
gay character, the mind is affected with an excess of gaiety;
if sad, with an excess of sadness. One curious effect of this
medicine is that of producing an apparent retardation of time,
rso as to make a few minutes appear to be hours, just as in
■dreams, a few seconds are sufficient to dream of the work of a
day. Dr. Moreau having taken a dose before going to the
■opera, fancied he was upwards of three hours finding his way
through the passage which led to it. -
An officer in the navy, under the influence of the Indian
hemp, saw puppets dancing on the roof of his cabin. Another
believed himself transformed into the piston of a steam-
engine ; a young artist imagined that his body was endowed
with such elasticity as to enable him to enter into a bottle,
.and remain there at his ease; just as in the Arab legends we
read of trap bottles, in which Solomon confined monstrous
marids, who, when set free from confinement, assumed a form
-whose head touched the clouds. Dr. Moreau, on one occasion,
felt as if his whole body was inflated like a balloon, and
thought he was able to elevate himself and vanish in air. Just
as in a dream the same levity is felt, whereby the body is
enabled to quit the earth and ascend towards heaven, and
thus escape the pursuit of some enemys A hat and coat lying
on a neighbouring table became converted into a little hideous
dwarf, clothed in a dress of the thirteenth century, which
haunted him for some time, until the objects were removed.
An old man-servant of seventy-one was converted into a beau¬
tiful young lady of irresistible attractions, and a glass of
lemonade into a furnace of hot charcoal.
Mr. Lane, the talented editor of the “ Arabian Nights,” had
a cook, usually very gay, who was addicted to hashish. One
evening he found him on the staircase, with a frightened air
addressing an imaginary being, whom he most politely invited
into the kitchen. When Mr. Lane asked for an explanation,
he said he was speaking to an efreet in a Turkish costume,
who was smoking his pipe on the staircase, and had just come
out of the well in the court. When Mr. Lane assured him that
he saw no one, the cook replied it might be so, but that was
because he had a pure conscience.
The hashish eaters are habitual seers of such things. One
on returning somewhat late home found a stray sheep bleating
with unusual voice; he took him home, sheared him for his
long fleece, and was about to kill him, when suddenly the sheep
rose to the height of twenty feet, in the form of a black man,
I and in a voice of thunder announced himself as a ;—.
Need I say that the whole was a mere brain sensation, pro¬
duced by the preparation of Indian hemp.
One more instance. Manson, a sailor, who had made nearly
twenty voyages with Europeans, recounted his interview with
a jinn, or jinnee, under the guise of a young girl of eight or
ten years old; he met her in the evening, on the banks of the
Nile, weeping deplorably because she had lost her way. Man-
son, touched with compassion, took her home with him. In
the morning he mounted her on an ass to take her to her
parents. On entering a grove of palms he heard behind him
some fearful sighs; he looked round to ascertain the cause,
and to his horror saw the little girl had dismounted, and her
lower extremities had become of enormous length, resembling
two frightful serpents, which she trailed after her in the sand.
Her arms became lengthened out, her face mounted to the
skies, black as charcoal, and her immense mouth, armed with
crocodile’s teeth, vomited forth flame. Poor Manson suddenly
fell upon the earth, where, overcome with terror, he passed
the night. In the morning he crawled home, and was ill for
two months with an affection of the brain.
In connection with these narratives of the qffect of Indian
hemp from another country, it will be interesting to give one
of its influence on a native of Natal.
The natives use the hemp called insangu largely. They
smoke it, drawing the smoke through water. It produces in¬
toxication, hallucinations, and various delusions. In one case
it was followed by a temporary attack of homicidal insanity.
A lad, who had been accustomed to smoke the hemp cau¬
tiously, because his family had an hereditary tendency to be
maddened by its use, one day, on a visit to a strange kraal,
was excited by emulation to pass beyond his usual limit. The
first symptoms of the intoxication was a continuing to see
objects which were no longer present. Then, when his com¬
panions laughed at his being intoxicated by the hemp, he was
seized by uncontrollable laughter himself; but whilst his
friends could cease, he could not, but remained grinning against
his will, being unable to close his mouth. He was left to
himself. He looked on the ground, and as in the case of Dr.
Moreau just mentioned, he saw a fire burning; he ran away
from this and threw himself on the ground, and covered his
eyes, when he felt the earth shake under him and sink away.
He tried to go out of the doorway, but it appeared to have
fallen in, and in its place was a deep chasm, into which
he was fearful of falling. Blaise Pascal, after having escaped
from imminent danger, always saw a yawning gulf before him,
and was bound to his chair during study lest he should fall
into it. This was followed by total insensibility of the surface.
He pinched himself, but felt no pain. He took an assagai,
but a voice said within him, lay that aside—you may kill
yourself; and he thrust it through the glass of the hut. Then
the whole hut seemed to fall in, and he himself to tumble into
a deep gulf; and then he saw many cattle also falling, and a
great multitude of men rushing hither and thither with shields,
and then there was a great noise. Then some of the figures
seemed to be walking in his very eyes; he was not able to
blink even, but was forced with a fixed stare to gaze upon the
spectres of his brain. He at last suddenly fell asleep. On
awaking in the middle of the night, and attempting to walk,
he tottered like an infant, and everything looked red. The
effects did not wholly pass off for twenty-four hours.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCE OF STEAMONIUM.
Stramonium produces symptoms very similar to those of
epidemic dancing mania. The person under its influence ap¬
pears to be in a troubled dream, and is subject to bursts of
uncontrollable laughter, and various spectres are seen to pass
before the eyes. One child who had been accidentally poisoned
by it supposed that cats, dogs, and rabbits were running on the
tops, sides, and middle of the room. Another, an infant, con¬
stantly stretched out after imaginary objects, apparently of a
pleasing character, and at the same time appeared unable to
see the objects which were actually present.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCE OF BELLADONNA.
Belladonna is said to produce visions of beautiful females.
It also causes an unreasonable irritation at the presence of
objects around without disturbing the senses ; and produces a
condition similar to that of somnambulism. The following is
the description of a person who had taken it in repeated
doses:—“He seems perfectly alive to surrounding objects;
his senses conveying faithfully to the brain the impressions
they receive; he goes through his usual avocations without
exhibiting any unwonted feeling, yet is he quite unconscious
of his existence, and performs mechanically all that he is
accustomed to do ; answers questions correctly without know¬
ing from whom or from whence they proceed; looks at objects
vacantly; moves his lips as if conversing, yet utters not a
sound. When this state of somnambulism passes away, he
has not the slightest recollection of what has occurred to him;
he reverts to that which immediately preceded the time when
he came under the influence of the drug, nor can any allusion
to his apparent reverie induce him to believe that he has
excited any attention.”
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCE OF CAMPHOR.
Camphor makes the body feel lighter, and excites the idea
of the possibility and pleasure of flying. Dr. Edwards, under
its influence, was surprised to find his body so light, that he
seemed to skim along the surface of the floor without touching
it. (Psyc. Journ. 1848, p. 299.)
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCE OF CHLOROFORM.
Chloroform, by inhalation, produces similar symptoms. A
friend of mine after inhaling it once or twice, and passing into
insensibility, on recovering found that general sensation was
destroyed; he could not feel the chair on which he was sitting;
he arose, but could not feel the ground on which he trod; he
seemed to skim along the earth; he applied to another to try
to make him feel; a small pair of pincers were made to meet
in his flesh without his being conscious of it. Another who
had had some teeth extracted under the influence of chloro¬
form, was ever afterwards, whenever his mind was not other¬
wise engaged, tormented by sounds as if a number of persons
were yelling and hurting him.
I have dwelt perhaps a little too long on this subject before
a non-professional audience. But it appears to me highly
important, in order to relieve the public mind from prevalent
false opinions on the subject of speetres and spirits; rappings,
mediums, and such like, to give them information which, by
showing them that wondrous phenomena can be produced by
the action of common substances, may induce them to seek an
explanation of similar phenomena, not in supernatural but in
natural causes.
THE SYSTEMATIC APPEARANCE OF SPIRITS.
Full accounts were recently published in these pages of
the systematic appearance by spirits in a good light, to many
persons at the same time at the seances of Mrs. Andrews, of
Moravia, New York State, U.S. Soon afterwards, some of our
London mediums began to sit for the same kind of manifesta¬
tions with more or less success, the most remarkable results
being obtained through the mediumship of Miss Florence
Cook, with the circumstance that the first face which appeared,
and which called itself “ Katie King,” was much like her
own, to her great annoyance. Dr. Pardon, of Sandown, like
many inexperienced in Spiritualism, tried to impose his own
conditions on the manifestations, failure, and the weakening
of Miss Cook’s mediumship being the results. After her
return home, by giving the spirits their own conditions, her
mediumship gradually grew strong again. The spirit Katie-
said she could not help being like her medium, but she
obligingly, on several occasions, put her head out of the
cabinet as black as ink, sometimes chocolate colour, and
sometimes white. Miss Cook sits in a cabinet now; it is a
tall narrow cupboard, with an opening in it a foot square,
high up near the ceiling. She sits sideways in a chair, as
the cupboard is not deep enough for her to sit facing the
door. In the darkness of this cupboard, to which there is
no entrance but through the front doors, the spirits manu¬
facture the faces, and when ready, put them out through the
opening into the light and talk to the observers.
Gradually they have increased the test conditions under
which they do this. They now begin by . lacing and tying the
medium most firmly with rope, especially about the wrists
and hands ; then they ask one of the observers to enter and seal
the knots with wax. They say that soon they shall be able
to let the spectators do the tying as well as the sealing.
Under the present conditions living feces of different colour
have been shown at the opening, but last Saturday faces not
like that of the medium began to appear.
In the room outside a strong paraffin light is used, with a
polished tin surface behind, throwing the rays directly upon
the faces, which can now stand a far stronger light than they
did at first, though it pains them.
Last Saturday week the first good view was obtained of a
fresh spirit face ; the upper part was a little like that of the
medium ; the under part was half as big again. Mrs. Cook
and her sister, who were told to go close up to the cabinet
and examine it, recognised it as their mother, and the spirit
called attention to a black silk cap it had on, as worn by Mrs.
Cook's mother before her death.
Last Thursday Katie sho wed herself while the medium was tied
up and sealed; afterwards a Fellow of the Royal Society took
about seven or ten minutes to untie her find set her free. Later
in the evening another face appeared in a good light; it had
a painful expression of countenance, and some of its front
teeth were missing, whilst others were disarranged ; the spirit
was not recognised by anybody present.
The position of the observers outside the cabinet influences
the manifestations; the spirits arrange the order in which
they sit, and singing is demanded of all the members of the
circle at particular stages of the manifestations. The paraffin
lamp consists of two concentric cylinders, with a large
opening in each. One of the cylinders can be turned by
hand, so that when the two openings face each other a strong
light is thrown on the faces. Thus, by turning one of the
cylinders a strong light, weak light, or total darkness can be
obtained expeditiously at will.
The splendid results thus obtained in the way of spirit
faces are due to the compliance by experienced Spiritualists
with those conditions which have been found to most favour
the manifestations. The spirits say they marmfactv/re the
faces more or less perfectly, and that the life in them is de¬
rived from the medium, who is usually in a deep trance all
the time. The sides, tops, and backs of the heads are covered
with white bandages. The heads have been felt, but only in
total darkness at present-;, in some cases they have been
hollow at the back, just like a wax doll with the back of its
head pushed in. They are all living faces, with sparkling
eyes and mobile features. When the power is weak the eyes
are more fixed than at other times, and the spirits say they
cannot then see out of them. When a spirit shows itself for
the first time thus, it has more difficulty in talking than when
it has had experience in the work. At first, their attempts to
speak result in choking sounds, and a few words may be
brought out with difficulty. They can usually bear the light
from two to four minutes. Katie can usually bear the light
well, and chat away sau cily ; she says that the light pains
her, and that the gaze of the observers hurts her still more.
“Your eyes act on me like burning-glasses,” she said.
Little Edith Cook, aged three or four years, much
strengthens these manifestations by sitting near the cabinet,
outside. The spirits say they get more power from her than
from the other outside members of the circle.
Mr. Enmore Jones informs us that it is the intention of
Miss Kate Fox shortly to give two or three seances per week
at her rooms to friends, who will be admitted on stated con¬
ditions, and on payment of a fee.
The subject of Spiritualism was not brought up publicly
at the recent meeting of the British Association at Brighton,
but a tract, objecting to Spiritualism on theological grounds,
published by E. W. Cole, Edgcumbe-street, Stonehouse, was
widely distributed among the members. The author is Mr.
Henry Innes.
70
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1872.
(ftomspntiaice.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed, to those of this journal and its readers.}
SPIBIT PACES.
Sib,—I wish to state, with reference to Miss Cook’s
mediumistiq powers, that on a recent occasion I have had an
opportunity of being a witness to some manifestations of a
nature so reliable as to force any man, placed under circum¬
stances similar to mine, to drop all hair-splitting and non¬
sense, and set himself down to seek for truth, if the discovery
of truth, and that alone, were the object of his investigation.
On the occasion alluded to, I was seated in the room with
Miss Cook, alone ; and I found that after a few minutes she
was tied in a way that put effort and assistance on her part
out of the question. On the same evening she was lifted on
the table several times, having been previously tied firmly to
her chair. Hands and faces were also felt and seen. One
face was perfectly black; I can confidently direct the atten¬
tion of investigators to the advantage to be derived from a
sitting with this young lady. J. E. Pubdou, M.B.
Sandown, Isle of Wight, Sept. 11th.
Sib,—On the evening of the 4th inst. I was unexpectedly
favoured with a private seance with Miss Florence Cook, of
Hackney, and having obtained permission to publish the par¬
ticulars, perhaps you will kindly spare me a few lines to
record the same in the widely circulated columns of your news¬
paper.
Through the co-operation of a number of Miss Cook’s
friends, she has just had presented to her a cabinet and set of
musical instruments, and also, for experimental purposes, a
dark lantern, which has been specially constructed to admit
of the light being readily regulated, &c. The cabinet is fitted
into a recess in the wall, the dimensions being 7 ft. 6 ins. X
3 ft. 1 in. X 1 ft. 9£ ins. ; it has two doors, 5 ft. 6 ins. high,
which, when opened, expose the whole of the interior to view.
Above the two doors is a panelling, in the centre of which is
an opening one foot square. One of the doors is fitted
with sliding bolts at the top and bottom, and the other with a
lock and key, locking from the outside. The instruments con¬
sist of a guitar, concertina, tambourine, and a harmonica.
The medium having seated herself in the cabinet on a
chair, with the instruments, two paper speaking tubes, and a
length of rope placed on the floor, I bolted and locked the
doors, and then took my seat of observation with Mrs. Cook,
her two youngest daughters Kate and Edie, her son Donald,
and their servant Mary. The lantern was placed in my charge,
the light was turned off, and by the sounds of lashing of the rope
we conjectured that the medium was being secured. Katie
King very soon made her presence known by speaking with
the direct voice to us, and in a few minutes I was instructed
to turn on the light and examine the medium, when I found
her securely and effectively fastened at the two wrists, with
her body bound to the chair. Gn reclosing the doors and re¬
suming my seat, the various instruments were then played
upon, and we noticed that the concertina and harmonica were
freely played at the same time. In a short time the guitar,
followed by the tambourine and concertina respectively, were
handed out at the opening. Katie King then told us to sing,
and said she.would entrance her medium so as to be able to
show us something good. While she was entrancing Miss
Cook we sang, and Katie King soon appeared at the opening,
requesting me to totally shut off all light, when she permitted
Mrs. Cook tq feel her face and hand, and, on being requested,
kissed Mrs. Cook’s hand. Immediately afterwards Katie
King called me, when I placed my hand at the opening and
was at once grasped by her, and Katie thus guided my
hand over her features, enabling me to trace the outlines ; she
thrice kissed my hand at my request, and permitted me to
examine the back portion of her head, which appeared
to be but imperfectly formed. She also allowed me to
feel the covering with which she binds her head and face, and
it appeared to be of coarse texture. In Katie King’s clasp of
my hand I noticed a peculiar characteristic difference to that
of the medium. The temperature both of the face and hand
was cool but pleasant, while the surface of the same was quite
dry. The atmosphere was this evening very oppressive,
lightning being prevalent. Mary was also permitted to feel
Katie’s face and hand, and the three of us remarked the
absence of breath from either the lips or nostrils. We were
then instructed to rouse the medium, and the sitting was ac¬
cordingly suspended. I then turned the light on, and, opening
the cabinet, discovered the medium entranced. On her recover¬
ing consciousness, I carefully examined the fastenings, and
found them perfect, and the same as on my first examination.
It took me upwards of ten minutes to release the medium
from the fastenings.
On resuming the seance Katie King at once greeted us, and
the medium was soon lashed to her chair. I was again deputed
to examine the knots, and, at Katie King’s suggestion, I placed
sealing-wax over the three principal knots, affixing a seal in
each case, in such a manner as to render it impossible to
loosen the knots at the wrists or on the chair, without break¬
ing the seals. Having once more fastened the doors and taken
my seat, we again sang a few verses and were delighted to
hear Katie King joining in, to which she referred by asking
us whether we did not think she was improving. In a very
short time she again appeared at the opening, this time re¬
questing me to turn the light fully upon her. By the aid of
the powerful rays we all most eagerly scrutinised her face,
which was calm and beautiful to look upon. The complexion
was light and clear, the face full, with light grey eyes, which
had a merry twinkle in them when looking at us, and a rather
bold nose for a female. In order to enable Katie to
remain longer in full view, I then slightly shifted the light,
and she was therefore able to manifest in this most conclusive
manner for upwards of fifteen minutes. She frequently drew
back the head covering referred to, which enabled us to ob¬
serve her full face, while she opened and shut her eyes, spoke
to us individually, and kissed her hand repeatedly in bid¬
ding us adieu. She looked fully at me, requesting me to ob¬
serve her closely, which I did with considerable gratification.
Eventually she wished us all goodnight, adding most fervently,
“ God bless you. ” On opening the doors of the cabinet I
found the medium entranced as before, and, on her recovering
consciousness, carefully scrutinised the rope fastenings which
were perfect—in fact, as I had left them at the commence¬
ment of the second sitting. I cut the knots off with the seals,
which are now in my possession. The fastenings at the
wrists were so tight as to leave a deep impress in the flesh, and
had to be cut away with a pen-knife.
I have been particular in describing the foregoing details
in order that the culminating manifestation of an individual
spirit appearing in a powerful light, and under the critical ex¬
amination of several witnesses, may be reliably recorded. I
have drawn up this account from notes made immediately
after the seance.
’Such experiences should indeed make us all grateful to God,
who has vouchsafed to us such convincing evidence of a future
life, and thus manifested His power and love to us His
children. Thomas Blyton.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
September 9th, 1872.
Bin,—Many of your readers may, perhaps, be interested in
the result of experiments I have lately conducted with Messrs.
Herne and Williams, in order to prove under the most strin¬
gent test conditions, that the manifestations, including spirit
photographs, which have been so much doubted by many as
genuine, are not only commonly produced under good con¬
ditions, but, in many instances, surpassed in their almost
astounding nature through the mediumship of these gentle¬
men. I have not only thus obtained, at my own residence, in
their presence, both jointly and separately, various degrees of
spirit photograph manifestations, but almost every other
phase of their extraordinary mediumship. One of the most
perfect manifestations occurred at my house on Sunday week,
when Mr. Williams paid me a visit. An inner room, about
six feet by ten feet, lighted by a large square of ruby-coloured
glass, contains a large cupboard, which we had before success¬
fully used as an improvised cabinet for the materialisation of
spirit forms. This room we resorted to on this occasion, and
a chair was placed inside the cupboard for the medium. We
closed both the door of the cupboard and of this “ dark room,”
and waited on the opposite side or end. Soon the voice of
“Katie King” was heard, telling us to keep quite still, and
not to attempt to touch her, if she walked out of the “ cabinet,”
until she gave us permission. In a few minutes the cupboard
door was pushed open from within, and the materialised
spirit form appeared standing on the threshold and talking to
ps. We were, however, told to try again later in the day,
when there would be more power. Accordingly, about four
or five o’clock, we again placed the medium in the “ cabinet,”
and Katie, this time, walked out and stood before us, lifting
up a portion of her turban from her face, and showing us her
features. Katie has a decidedly handsome face, with a
thoughtful, spiritualised expression, an olive complexion, and
is most unmistakably Oriental. Her raiment was brilliantly
white and flowing, bordered by an apparent embroidery, but
which, she explained, was woven into the robe, and formed
part of the spiritual garment. She said, “ See, these are the
robes I wear in the spheres ; they are spiritual, although now
materialised.” We could see their soft texture, and one of us
was permitted to touch a portion. Whilst Katie was thus
talking, she moved her limbs about so that we might see the
flowing and waving folds of the spirit robes, which ^ere the
only things in the diffused bright red light which did not par¬
take of the pink tint given to the light fabrics. So bright
were the spirit garments that the scene forcibly reminded
me at the time of the description of the Transfiguration
on the Mount, where the garments of Jesus, Moses, and
Elijah were apparently whiter than fuller’s earth could white
them.
I could relate many other beautiful and extraordinary mani-
| festations which occurred on that afternoon, but I am sure
your space forbids.
Trusting you will find room in the forthcoming edition of
your interesting journal for this hasty letter, I am, &c.,
Henry E. Bussell.
Kingston-on-Thames, 9 Sept. 1872.
Sib,—At a private seance held at the house of Mr. Desmond
Fitzgerald, Brixton, after the room was darkened, and a
cabinet improvised for the medium (Mr. Williams), a hand¬
bell, some paper tubes, and two phosphorus bottles were placed
upon the table. Each of us, eight in number, took our seats
around it, having all hands in contact. We commenced by
singing a hymn. Before its completion, a tube was raised
from the table and put over one of the bottles. The voice of
“John King” requested us to take one of the bottles out of
the room, and the other off the table. He then desired a
light to be struck, and the medium to be tied within the
cabinet, as “ Katie ” intended to show herself. A light was
struck, and Mr. Fitzgerald tied Mr. Williams, as we thought,
secure. We then re-seated ourselves in a circle a little apart
from the table, keeping hold of each other’s hands, and again
singing a hymn, in which John joined. The spirit-lights then
became visible, and we could perceive the bell, which was
ringing, performing wonderful evolutions on the ceiling above
our heads. Katie’s soft, small voice said,—“ Teddy Williams
is not tied fast enough. You must tie him faster.” Instantly
the cords were thrown over the table, and Mr. Williams
exclaimed, “ I’m untied 1 It was done in a moment! ” Mr.
Williams was then re-tied, his hands firmly bound to his
knees. We re-seated ourselves as before, and heard Mr.
Williams say,—“ Katie is feeling the cords ! ” And she replied,
“ That will do. Now I’m going to show myself. Would you
like to see me 1 ” On our cordial assent being given, she, by
a few preliminary efforts, holding her illuminated hands up
to her face, rendered herself visible to each one of us in turn,
uttering the words to each, “ Can you see me ? ” I saw her
distinctly, and must retain an imperishable remembrance of
her. She has classical features of the softened Jewish type,
an olive complexion, long, flowing hair, dark, intelligent eyes,
and graceful figure ; the tout ensemble being, to my vision,
the perfection of beauty. Mrs. Fitzgerald, in virtue of their
long acquaintance, requested a piece of her drapery. She
replied, “Yes, yes; get scissors and cut a piece off,” at the
same time holding her white robe forward and saying, “ Be
quick ; or it will melt away 1 ” Scissors being at hand, Mrs.
Fitzgerald cut off a scrap, which, on examination, appeared
to us to be an Indian fabric of a cottony nature. After it was
obtained, “ Katie” said, “There, it will not dissolve now.”
She then addressed Mr. Fitzgerald, telling him she would
fetch his great-uncle Robert, and assist him in showing him¬
self ; on which she departed, and the spirit calling himself
“ Peter’’became visible to us all, dressed in the costume of
an acrobat. The vision was too momentary to enable me to
give an accurate description of his face. After a good deal
of badinage, he shook hands with each of us, and wished us
all good night, naming each one separately. In the course
of a few moments “ Katie ’’ returned, saying that the power
was exhausted, and she would bring “Robert” another
time. She cheerfully wished us all. “ Good night.” “ John
King” then requested Mr. Fitzgerald to report the seance
'to the Medium, ahd, after a few agreeable parting remarks,
|he, with his customary “Good night; God bless you all,”
took his departure. Mr. Williams was then released from his
bonds, which had left their cruel indentations, showing that
“ Katie,” though such a gentle-looking spirit, had exercised
little mercy on her medium. E> GUNTON.
Loughborough-road North, S.E.
[This was at the private residence of Mr. Fitzgerald, the electrician—
a gentleman well known in connection with scientific literature; he mtro-'
duced bottles of luminous phosphorus, in the attempt to see the spirits by
artificial light of low refrangibility, but the experiment, it appears, did not
answer.—Ed.]
SPIBIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—In your issue of the 15th of April last will be found,
under the heading of “ The Experiences of an Enquirer,” a
statement of an intelligence making its presence known at our
family circle by distinct rapping on the table, and giving the
name, by the alphabet, of “ Samuel Levi,” a converted Jew,
living, when in the flesh, at Pembroke Dock, South Wales.
He said he knew none of the persons at the seance, but' inti¬
mated that his purpose was to counteract the influence of un¬
truthful spirits, who frequently visited our circle.
I wrote to the parish authorities of Pembroke Dock, to test
the truth of his assertion, and received a letter dated the 3rd
of July last, from Mr. Quarterman Vicars, churchwarden,, in
which he tells me that, on making inquiry of some of the
oldest inhabitants of that locality, he found one that recollected
such a person as Samuel Levi, watchmaker and silversmith,
who lived at Pembroke about the year 1795, as stated.
James Judd.
310, Icknield-street West, Birmingham.
INSTINCT.
Sir,—I am surprised that so accurate a man as my friend
Mr. H. G. Atkinson should have so misunderstood my meaning
as to say that I “ deny to the lower animals theic instincts,”
and “ strive to make facts square with my theories,”—and
further that my “ denial of the existence of such powers is as
futile as it is in utter defiance of fact.” Now will it be
believed that I have never denied the existence of instinct;
I have, it is true, denied that it has been proved that birds
build their nests by instinct, and have maintained that a con¬
sideration of all the facts is, in this case, entirely opposed to
that view; and I suppose Mr. Atkinson himself would admit
that each case of supposed instinct is to be judged by itself,
according-to the facts of that case. I have also expressed my
belief that much of the supposed instinct of the lower animals
can be explained by initiation and observation, apd the pecu¬
liar organisation which necessitates certain movements, and
renders certain actions pleasurable. In my short essay on
“ Instinct in Men and Animals,” published in my “ Contribu¬
tions to the Theory of Natural Selection,” I maintain that the,
senses and mental powers of the lower animals are probably
so different from ours, and are so little known, that we can¬
not safely arrive at conclusions drawn from a comparison of
their actions with ours ; but that among the higher animals,
where there is a closer resemblance in senses and mental
powers to ourselves, the facts which I throughout appeal to,
do not prove instinct. I maintain that experiments on instinct
have not been sufficiently carried on, and I conclude, not that
there is no such thing as instinct, but that it should not be
accepted as proved in any particular case until all other pos¬
sible modes of explanation have been exhausted.” Having
thus expressed myself, I do not like being accused of the posi¬
tive and dogmatic “ denials of instinct,” which Mr. Atkinson
imputes to me. I am open to conviction by facts, and I may
remark that at the British Association meeting at Brighton,
a valuable paper was read by Mr. Spalding relating a series
of experiments on newly-hatched chickens, which go to show
that many simple actions, involving appreciation of form and
distance, are well performed without experience ; but we have
as yet no experiments to show that the exceedingly complex
actions involved in the higher instincts can be so performed.
Alfred R. Wallace.
M. Thiers a Spiritualist.—The Paris correspondent of
the Echo of Aug. 28 says :—“ M. de Lavedan, the Prefect of the
Department of the Vienne, furnishes us with the following
authentic details ;—A few weeks ago M. Thiers did me the
honour to inform me that he was occupied with a special
work, independent of his other labours. ‘ I should be glad,’
he exclaimed in a tone of noble indignation, ‘ to confound
materialism, which is a folly as well as a peril. There is a
fine book to be made on this subject, and I have as yet only
written the half of it. Certainly I devote myself with my
whole heart to the liberation of the territory and the re¬
organisation of the country, but at times I cannot help regret¬
ting my peaceable and cherished studies. For twelve years I
have been engaged in this work ; during all that time I have
been exploring botany, chemistry, and natural history for
arguments against the detestable doctrine which leads honest
people astray. I am a Spiritualist, an impassioned one ; and
I am anxious, I repeat, to confound materialism in the name
of science and good sense. ’ ”
Creation of the Earth.—In the course of a Sunday
evening lecture once delivered at St. George’s Hall, Regent-
street, London, Mr. John Browning, F.R.A.S., said:—“Ac¬
cording to the nebular hypothesis, the solar system originally
consisted of a vast rotating globe of nebulous matter, that is,
of matter at such an intense heat that the particles are disso¬
ciated and in a state of Vapour. This vast rotating globe,
which must have had a diameter of more than 10,000,000,000
miles, gradually cooling, contracted, and became much smaller
than its original dimensions. As the globe cooled and con¬
tracted, the velocity of rotation increased, and, at last, the
outermost parts were thrown off; thus a cone, or ring, of
nebulous matter was formed. Then the globe, continuing to
contract, another globe was formed in a similar manner, and,
as the process, continued, several of these rings were formed in
the equatorial plane of the rotating globe. These concentric
rings may have gone on circulating round the sun; if all the
particles of these rings had continued to cool equally, they
would have ended by forming a liquid or solid ring, but as
they, in all probability, cooled and contracted unequally, each
ring would break into several parts, which would continue to
circulate round the sun with equal velocity. In consequence
of their separation they would acquire a rotatory motion,
which would necessarily be in the same direction as the orbital
motion. The theory then goes on to show how, in the ma¬
jority of instances, the fragments of each broken ring would
unite and form a single planet, and how it might happen, on
the other hand, that the several fragments would continue to
travel independently round the sun, as in the case of asteroids.
If we accept this hypothesis, it is easy to understand how the
continued contraction of the several fragments which were the
embryos of the planets, might result in the formation of
systems resembling the present system, as is the case with
Jupiter and Saturn.”
Sept. 15, 1872.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
71
REAL AND SRAM SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
With much reluctance we return to the subject of the large
proportion of spurious pictures which Mr. Hudson has issued
sis spirit photographs. During the last two months some of
our contemporaries, more especially the Spiritual Magazine,
have published many columns of matter, tending to convey
the impression that it is an open question whether any spurious
pictures have been issued at all, so that dust has been thrown
into the eyes of readers to such an extent as to raise the ques¬
tion among the more uninformed Spiritualists, whether we'
have brought false charges on insufficient evidence. It is not
an open question to any journal which does its duty by collect¬
ing the evidence extant.
The facts of the case may be briefly stated thus :—
1. That Mr. Hudson has sold a number of artifloial ghost pictures, made
for the most part by double exposure of the plates, the said plates being
first exposed on the person or lay figure dressed as a ghost, then preserved
in a wet state, and afterwards exposed again on persons who came for
spirit photographs.
2. That the trick has often been so clumsily done, that parts of the
background have been taken on the first exposure of the plate, so as to
appear in front of the dress of the second sitter.
3. That on the second exposure of the plate, Mr. Hudson has sometimes
not been able to point the camera exactly as he did at first, wherefore
certain holes in his background appear in duplicate in the same picture,
having been by the two exposures photographed twice on difierent parts of
the same plate.
4. That certain of these dummy ghost pictures have afterwards been
altered by hand so clumsily as to show in the flnishe'd prints that por¬
tions of some of the pictures had beyond all doubt no photographic origin
at all:
5. That the afore-mentioned facts are so clear in some of the pictures,
that the most common-place photographer can detect them at a glance, and
that any photographer of moderate intelligence would be ashamed to turn
out sham ghost pictures so badly done.
6. That Mr. Hudson some months ago very honestly published,—“ I will
not guarantee them to be spirit photographs.”
7. That the Editor of the British Journal of Photography published in a
leading article the information that most of Mr. Hudson’s picures were
shams, made chiefly by double exposure of the plate.
8. That all the Spiritualists experienced in photography, who kept a close
watch for a prolonged time on Mr. Hudson and his pictures, unanimously
condemned many of them as spurious.
9. That, knowing that the Spiritual Magazine had not made any practical
investigation of the subject: we published two months ago who the perspns
were who chiefly possessed the evidence against the Holloway photographs,
but the editor has since then neither gone himself nor sent a photographer
to examine the said evidence.
10. That to anybody who will give time and work to the examination of
the evidence, it is not an open question whether Mr. Hudson has sold a pro-
portt&n of sham ghost pictures, and that it is the duty of spiritual periodicals
to give their readers decided and not uncertam information on these points,
supposing such information to be obtainable.
Mr. Guppy, who is practically acquainted with photography,
has, in print, condemned with regret many of the pictures as
spurious ; as he lives near Mr. Hudson, and has watched his
doings and pictures very closely, and has been in communica¬
tion with others engaged in the same examination of the pic¬
tures, his condemnation of them is alone of considerable
weight.
Some of the Holloway pictures we think to be genuine spirit
photographs, and among the best are two, one of them taken
when Mr. Pycock was the sitter,-and the other when Mr. H.
E. Russell sat. Mr. Guppy’s first five pictures, and two taken
when Miss Cook was present, 'we think to be genuine, taking
the collateral evidence, as well as that contained in the pic¬
tures, into consideration.
Now for the facts about Messrs. Herne-and Williams :—
1. It became our painful duty to point out tbat in one of Mr. Hudson’s
pictures bearing marks of double exposure, was one in wbicb Mr. Herne
appears as the. ghost, and a portion of the background appears in front
instead of behind the mortal sitter (also Mr. Herne). In fact, the back¬
ground appears over the front of Mr. Heme’s trousers. Respecting this
picture the Editor of the British Journal of Photography printed a certificate
that it was such a palpable imposture that it should not for a moment de¬
ceive anyone acquainted with photography.
2. That after the lapse of three weeks after the publication of the above
fact, Mr. Herne, for the first time, publicly denied that he had taken part in
the manufacture of the picture, and he excused his long silence by printing
in the Medium newspaper that “ till he returned to London, he did not
know of the accusations against him.” Mr. Williams also published that
this last statement of Mr. Herfib’s was perfectly true.
3. The real truth of this'matter was that directly after the Spiritualist
printed the facts, Mr. Henry Morris, of Mount Trafford, Eccles, near Man¬
chester, told Mr. Heme of the accusations against him in the presence of
Mr. Williams, and there was quite a scene. The accusations, moreover,
were the chief subject of convers’ation during the several following days
that Messrs. Heme and Williams remained in Mr. Morris’s house at Man¬
chester, and Mr. Morris has written to us expressing his astonishment at
their published denial that they knew about the accusations till after their
return to London.
' 4. That since the return of Mr. Williams from Manchester he has pub¬
lished his entire conviction of the innocence of Mr. H erne and Mr. Hudson.
Before he went to Manchester he told us that he thought that Mr. Hudson
had been manufacturing sham pictures, for he knew that Mr. Hudson had
had people in his studio of a morning pretty regularly before he (Mr. Wil¬
liams) arrived there. Mr. Williams called 6ne morning upon Mr. Benjamin
Pycock, one of the'investigators, and confessed to him that he knew
that Mr. Heme had been in Mr. Hudson’s studio, looking on while another
person stood as a sham ghost during the first exposure of the plate. This
last circumstance we have not published before, because hitherto we have
confined ourselves to facts coming within our own knowledge, and have
not publishedmany things connected with Mr. Hudson’s photographs which
have been found out by the other investigators whose names we gavb.
This confession caused much regret to Mr. Pycock, who informed Mr.
Blyton and ourselves about it at once; he had been a good friend to tho
mediums, and had, moreover, one genuine spirit photograph at Mr.
Hudson’s, it being a clear and decided likeness of a deceased lady. Other
investigators than ourselves have found out several things about Mr.
Hudson’s pictures, which, as yet, have not been published.
A great proportion of the recent “ writing up ” of Mr. Hud¬
son’s photographs and Messrs. Herne and Williams’s medium-
ship has been anonymous, and much of it has been done by
Mr. Henry E. Russell and his friend Mr. W. G. Champernowne,
of Kingston-on-Thames. They have been getting spirit photo¬
graphs through the mediumship of Messrs. Herne and Wil¬
liams, but the only fact they bring forth having any bearing
at all on the Holloway case, is stated in Mr. Champemowne’s
letter in The Medium, of August 9th. He says of one of the
pictures taken at Kingston under test conditions :—
The plate, appears as if double exposure had taken place, as the pattern
of the carpet in the studio is seen through Mr. Heme’s legs, but it was only
exposed once.
Mr. Russell, in the same paper, writes a passionate letter,
full of exaggerations and misrepresentations. He says:—
So much has been said and written in disparagement of Messrs. Heme
and Williams that a word in their defence will be acceptable to many of
your .readers, who have hitherto looked, week after week, in vain for some
relenting of that bitter spirit of persecution which has so mercilessly
assailed these'mediums on every hand. Your readers cannot expect them
successfully to defend themselves in such an unequal combat. Their
simple denial of dishonesty is not heeded.* It remains, then', for others to
come forward in their defence. But every reflecting mind must know
that some ultimate benefit must accrue to those who are now stigmatised
as cheats and impostors.
He afterwards proceeds to denounce those who have con¬
demned Mr. Hudson’s sham ghost photographs. As Mr. Russell
only came up once or twice from Kingston to Mr. Hudson’s,
and as Mr. Guppy, Mr. John Traill Taylor, Mr. John Jones,
Mr. Beattie, and other Spiritualists experienced in photo¬
graphy. spent some weeks in investigating before condemning
a large proportion of the pictures as spurious, Mr. Russell
* Neither is their simple denial that they knew of the accusations against
one of them till after their return to London from Manchester.—Ed,
makes up in energy what he lacks in accurate knowledge. It
is scarcely necessary to say that there has been no persecu¬
tion of the mediums at all, no hard words like those in Mr.
Russell’s letter, and that the little which has been published
about the mediums has been done with regret in the perform¬
ance of a public duty which could not honestly be shirked.
For the most part the columns which have been published by
our contemporaries supporting Mr. Hudson and his spurious
pictures have] been allowed to pass in silence by those who
know better.
With regard to tbe utterances of Messrs. Russell and Cham¬
pernowne we consider them to be well-meant but unreliable.
Nothing would give us more pleasure than the substantiation
of Mr. Champernowne’s assertion that by one exposure of a
plate, he has obtained a picture with a part of the background
in front of the sitter. If he will send the negative for certifi¬
cation to the editor of the British Journal of Photography,
and put some prints from it on public view in Mr. Burns’s
shop, where the celebrated “ double ” of Mr. Herne has been
on view a long time, he will do much good to.the mediums,
and prove that he has not been exaggerating while advocating
their cause. Mr. Herne’s “ double ” is in scores of albums all
over the country; Mr. Champernowne’s alleged companion
picture with the background over the legs, has not been on
public view or sale, so is at present a mere matter of assertion
so far as the public are concerned.
Mr. Hudson took another “ double ” of Mr. Heme, which
few of the public have seen, as the sale of it was very soon
stopped. In this one the “ double,” which is a clear likeness
of Mr. Herne, is dressed in drawers and stockings of
the latest fashion. Can Messrs. Russell and Champernowne
get a picture like this at Kingston, by one exposure of the
plate ? There are other curious pictures in the hands of the
investigators.
The Spiritual Magazine adopts two methods of defence of
Mr. Herne ; first, that spirits put marks of double exposure on
the plate (?), secondly, that in several pictures, containing clear
likenesses of Mr. Herne as a ghost, the said ghost is not himself,
but his spirit brother “Willie.” The writer of one of the
articles says :—
One evening, my friend Mr. Henry Bielfeld, of 2 08, Euston-road, called
on me, and in conversation remarked that he had in the morning acciden¬
tally met Mr. Herne in an omnibus on the way to Mr. Hudson,' where Mr.
Heme said he was to be by HI o’clock, his spirit-brother having made an
appointment with him to be there at that time, and promised that he would
endeavour to appear with him on the plate. This was told to me before
any copies of this photograph were printed, and, of cdurse, before any con¬
troversy concerning it had arisen.
What were the dates of all these conversations, and how
have they been recorded ? The picture was taken in the sea¬
son during which Mr. Hudson was manufacturing shams
wholesale by double-exposure.
A friend of the mediums writes to us —“ Bury all the past.
These young men have now suffered enough for their failings ;
let us encourage them to go on in the future in the strictest
integrity.” Another opinion is that “ One case of deception
unsettles a score of facts, so that the act of a medium who
assists his manifestations by tricks, should not be lightly
passed over.”
If ever the Photographic Society of London should have a
dozen of the worst specimens of Mr. Hudson’s double-exposed
pictures (some of them doctored by hand) brought before
them, and it should be announced that after the clumsy decep¬
tions had been issued, and their nature exposed in print, some
of the spiritual periodicals continued for two or three months
to mystify their readers by keeping open controversies as to
their genuineness, that day will be a disgraceful one for
Spiritualism. The professional eye can see how they have
been made at a glance. Up to the present time the editor of
the Spiritual Magazine has neither gone himself to see the
spurious pictures in the possession of those who collected them,
nor has he sent a photographer to do so for him. None of the
spiritual periodicals clear their expenses, so it is sometimes
the case that instead of reliable investigation being made into
matters of public interest, opinions are formed from letters
dropping into the office from anybody, and published as reli¬
able information.
MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH MISS KATIE FOX’S
MEDIUMSHIP.
BY ENMORE JONES.
When, in November, 1871, I heard that Miss Fox was
really in England, on a visit to recruit herself, after the hard
work of the previous twenty-three years, and feeling that she
was the representative of the American spirit guides, as
D. D. Home is of the European, I joyfully called on her at the
Great Western Hotel, and welcomed her, heartily recognising
the mighty revolution she had effected in America. Till this
month of August, 1872, I had no seance with her. Then,
apparently without any effort on my part, my house became her
resting-place for a time. I did not ask for a seance, but when
voluntarily the sounds suddenly conversed with us,and desired
a sitting, we gladly agreed, and the results are partly here¬
after detailed. .
Let me now pass by the ordinary free-and-easy breakfast or
tea-table conversations with our spirit friends, and narrate
the sensational parts which so startle the thinkers, and indi¬
vidualise the spirit guides who do the work—they who cheer¬
fully assert they are acting under the direction of personal
powers more powerful than themselves.
One afternoon, at tea, the oval table, six feet by four, in the
breakfast room, heaved and rocked about; the tea in
the cups was tossed about, and in reply to a question of
mine, the contents of my cup dashed over on to the table¬
cloth. I sat at one end of the table. We thoroughly
enjoyed the incident. Another evening, at supper—no wine,
no liquid spirits on the table to daze us, I took a fork,
and held it under the table. I felt a large soft human
hand pass over the back of my hand down my fingers, and
take the fork; it was carried to the other end of the table, and
we heard it drop on the floor. My son Rupert took a spoon,
and put it in like manner ; it was taken out of his hand. He
then took his railway annual ticket; it was also taken out of
his hands, and was carried and put into the hand of Miss
Fox. Miss Fox was sitting at a distance from him. The or¬
dinary gaslights in the room were in use.
Another evening we had a preparation sitting. I marked
four sheets of paper prior to the seance, and afterwards locked
them up ; at the seance the lights were put out, and after a
time one of the four marked sheets on the side table was
written on with pencil in a large bold hand, and signed “ J.
W. Jackson.” It was utterly impossible that Miss Fox could
have written it in the dark; but ferreting for an answer to
“ How was it done ? ” I remembered that I had not counted
the four marked quarto sheets when I locked them up, there¬
fore I might have locked up only three sheets, and the fourth
might have been written between the two meetings, a period
of forty-eight hours, and put with the others in the dark. So
I said nothing for or against the writing, as I really knew
nothing. There lacked the one link in the chain of evidence.
I now come to a remarkable sitting held on the 27th. I
cannot fully give all the minute links that make the chain
perfect. You must therefore give me credit for having the
links, and asking your readers to keep their “ perhaps ” shots
for some other seance.
On Wednesday, the 27th of August, seven of us sat down to
the seance. We had been directed to commence at half-past
8 o’clock. At 8 Miss Fox came into the room listlessly, and re¬
mained. I was getting the quarto-ruled writing paper ready.
She said, “ Mark them, and put them with a pen and pencil on
the side table.” I did so, putting a fresh quantity of ink in the
ink-stand. All but Rupert sat down at a table in the centre of
the room. The sounds said “ darken.” I locked the door,
and put the gas out. The lobby lights were on. We all re¬
gretted Rupert was not with-us ; he came before the half-past
eight, but, being locked out, he was going away, when Miss
Fox got up, opened the door, went along the lobby, and called
him. They came at once ; the door was again locked. We
sat at the centre table and sang several “ spirit minstrel ”
songs. Then we heard as if a powerful hand were writing
vigorously at the side table, where the pencil, pen and ink
were. Miss Fox was humming a portion of a song we had
been singing. Suddenly there was a violent rustling of the
paper in the air, to dry the ink, as we were told, as there was
no blotting paper. The rustling ceased ; the writing recom¬
menced ; we distinctly heard the pen action on the paper ;
again the rustling in the air very vigorously. The sounds
then declared we were now about to get the most extraordi¬
nary manifestation we ever had had. A lull—then a vigorous
thud on the centre of our table. The gas was shortly after
lighted, and there, in front of me on the table, was the life
bust cast of one of my sons, who passed away when a child,
some twenty years ago. It had been brought from the top
shelf of a bed room on the floor above, and there placed ; who
by, or how, I cannot say. I then went to the table, saw one
of the marked quarto-sheets written on both sides, in a bold
hand, on the ruled lines, properly punctuated ; the sentences
short and terse. Not’ one word incorrectly formed, not one
blot on the paper. To write the quantity there must have
been some twelve dips of the pen into the ink. Previous to a
quarter past eight no ink was in the inkstand—no other ink-
stand in the room. All had been done in total darkness to us,
but evidently light to our spirit friends. Miss Fox sitting op¬
posite to me at the time singing in a low tone the song re¬
ferred to, so that I heard her, my mother, aged eighty-seven,
hale and happy, was sitting next her, and behind my mother
was the table which had been used for writing on. Thus I and
my family have one piece of direct spirit writing, free of all
quibble as to genuineness. I give a copy of the writing :—
[In pencil] “ Could I give you what you so much [ink] desire,
could I be the instrfiment of opening the unbeliever’s eyes,
my soul would rejoice. Your world is beautiful. God has
given you much to enjoy, and yet you poor mortals are ever
wishing for something more, and never satisfied, and will not
be until you soar beyond the shadow land. We are guided by
a higher power. Why dictate to us ? How little this truth
is understood. You cannot yourselves do more than your
strength will permit. A cloud over the sky will often prevent
us from coming. The day will come, my friend, while this
medium is in your midst, when you will see one of your loved
ones face to face, and you will .bless God for the boon. Your
voices sound harmoniously to our harps. [We had been sing¬
ing, and I grumbling at the roughness of the voices.] You
shall hear some of our strains during these meetings. I must
cease writing now, as one of your family wishes to show you
how objects can be brought through closed doors. Meet next
Tuesday evening at half-past eight. Thank Mrs. Gregory for
her kindness to me and family.—God bless you—the circle.
“ J. W. Jackson.”
Thus you have the copy of the letter with its contents. I
am satisfied that the letter was written by a hand as tangible
as that which handled mine when it took the fork out of my
hand, and the railway ticket from my son, a few days before,
and that hand was part of what we call a ghost. More per¬
haps in your next issue.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
In our advertisement columns will be found a list of sub¬
scriptions, so far as they extend at present, to cover a part of
the expenses of the more frequent publication of The, Spi¬
ritualist. The result of the support given by the friends men¬
tioned in that list is that The Spiritualist will come out
fortnightly after next month ; thus, not only will a quicker
supply of spiritual news be the result, hut we shall have room
to report more of the proceedings of that section of the learned
world which is scientifically investigating all things connected
with the nature of man, so that Spiritualism will be brought more
than at present under the consideration of some of the most
thoughtful men and women in this country. This great result
will he achieved at very moderate expense; nevertheless, we
trust that the subscription list will be considerably extended
before it is. closed, especially as we have suffered much for
some years, by standing out against the custom of supporting
the spiritual journals by subscription, so as to have been sub¬
jected to undue competition. We tender our thanks to those
friends who have aided to very much increase the supply of
spiritual news during the coming winter, and have no doubt
that all readers of this journal will do the same.
Mr. J. H. Powell, well known as one of the earliest
workers in the cause of Spiritualism, departed this life about
a week ago, after a lingering and painful illness. We trust
that much will be done by Spiritualists to assist Mrs. Powell
in every possible way. Her address is 179, Copenhagen-street,
Caledonian-road, N.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
T., Folkestone.—Next month.
L. X.—Your letter is a good one, but excessively long.; we will try
and get it in next month.
All the correspondence on “ The Efficacy of Prayer” is kept over
till next month for want of space.
A corkespondent writes from the “ King’s Head Hotel,” Darling¬
ton : “ Is not this town a great place for Spiritualists ? I have
made inqumes, and been all over the place, and perused the local
newspapers, but can see no sign of them. The noteworthy things
here are the Town Hall, and the enormous rolling mills at Bank
Top.” There is one energetic Spiritualist in Darlington, Mr. G.
R. Hinde, and there may be a few others besides. Tfie Medium,
in a recent report of some local meetings of Spiritualists from
Darlington and neighbouring towns, said that about fifty persons
were present “ during the day.”
72
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 15, 1872
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, mat it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family-circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle-thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRIT IT AlISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Eussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of HoUand. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances.
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me."
Mr C. F. Varley, C.E., .F.E.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend I
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was "that he came into communication with
some, of. his .own. departed. relatives. He then
made' mechanical! telegraphicmachines, which
were intelligently worked by spiritsj while' the
apparatus was .screened.; from ,the._isight .of ..thet
. xhedium',' and he wrote;a/bo6k recording"ail! fliesd
facts. That book Is now in the British Museum'
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books bn the subject. Eecently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written ,a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in 'favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping add movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred- in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.E.S. (editor of The Quartei-ly
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Eoyal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
comfnittee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Book of Nature, by C. O.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No ;for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modem Spiritualism.”
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, flye, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ’’ When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of' mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially
meet the EXPENSES of the more FREQUENT
PUBLICATION of ‘,‘The Spiritualist”:—
.    s.d.
Charlies Jflaekbufn, Esq'. ...    ... 10 0 0
“A Frifend at a Distance” ... ... ... ... 10 6 0
W. Tebbs, Esq. ... .:    S 0.0
Enmore Jones, Esq.    ...   COO
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.E.S.    ... 5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder   10 0
Miss E. Ponder  1 0 0
Mrs. Eudd  10 0
“Longfellow”   1 0 0
Mr. WithaU ... ...   1 ... 1 0 0
Mr. E. Bird  ...   10 0
. Mr. Eogers   , ... 10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald   10 0
Mrs. Q-unyon  ;' ...' ... ... 10 0
  7 0 0
Further subscriptions from friends
per Miss Ponder ...  
“ A Friend,” Temple   ...
N. F. Daw, Esq....  
The Countess of Caithness  
Algernon Joy, Esq., 
“ A Friend,” Manchester 
“ A Friend,” Eegent’s-park 
Miss Kislingbury ... ...
Gt. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq.... ...
Mrs: Macdougall Gregory ... ...
“AFriend”  -... ... ...
at Brixton,
Benjamin Coleman, Esq   ...
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston    
10 0
3 3 0
3 3 0
2 2 0
2 0 0
110
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
110
5 5 0
2 2 0
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to
N.Fabyan Daw, Esq., treasurer, 2, Portman-chambers,
Portman-square, W.; Benjamin Coleman, Esq., Bemard-
villas, Upper Norwood; or to Emnore Jones, Esq., En-
more-park, South Norwood, S.E.
September 8th, 1872.
G. TL ANDREWS,
TAILOE, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling, W.C.
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
yilien reports of the speeches of spirits are printed m this
Journal, non-Sviritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, thpy are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree,; and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no mope uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
•ournal to report facts, so we. are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may
honour him with their patronage, they can be
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d.
Trousers, from    0 13 6
Vests
Black Suit, from
Unrivalled Black Doe
Tweed Suit  
0 7
3 0
1 1
2 10
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIEVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24. Keppel-street, Eussell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms. 21s.
In the Press. A new Volume of Poems, price 2s. 6d.
AN INVALID’S CASKET. By J. H.
Powell, author of “Life Incidents and Poetic Pic¬
tures,” &c. “An Invalid’s Casket” is the result of
nearly seven years’ poetic musihgs, the majority of the
pieces being composed in America. The object of the
present issue is to secure (if possible) means, from its
sale, to support the family of the author.
Intending Subscribers will confer a favour by forward¬
ing their Names, Addresses, and Subscriptions at once
to J. H. Powell, 179, Copenhagen-street, Caledoniau-road,
London, N.
British imperial insurance
COEPOEATION, LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 nr 200,000 Shares of £1 Each.
Head Offices:
BEOWN STBEET AND MAESDEN STEEET,
MANCHESTEE.
Chief London Offices:
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, E.O.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Eegis-
trar, Court of Probate, Doctors’ Commons, London;
and Chancellor of the Diocese of Manchester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General,
India Office, Westminster, London,
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director
of the Union Bank of London, Austin Friars, Old
Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.)
Director of the Bank of England, 573, Old Broad-
street, London, E.C.
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at
2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating the
Influence of the Mind on the Body, both in Health
and Disease, and the Psychological Method of Treatment,
by Eev. W. F. Evans, author of “ The Celestial Dawn,”
“ The Happy Islands,” "The New Age and its Messenger,”
&c., &c., &c.
The design of this Treatise is to explain the nature and
laws of the inner life of man, and to contribute some
light on the subj ect of Mental Hygiene, which is beginning
to assume importance in the treatment of disease, and to
attract the attention of physiologists. The author has
aimed to illustrate the correspondence of the soul and
body, their mutual action and reaction, and to demonstrate
the casual relation of disordered mental states to diseased
physiological action, and the importance and mode of
regulating the intellectual and affectional nature of the
invalid under any system of medical treatment.
Glasgow: James M’Geachy, 89, Union-street.
SPIRITUAL SEANCES are held every
Friday evening, at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C., at eight o’clock. Mr. J. J. Morse, Medium. Ad¬
mission One Shilling.
Auditor:
Dr. William Farr, F.E.S, &c, &c, London, and
Southlands, Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British
Imperial ” (originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.E.S, &c,
&c„ of Somerset House, and adopted with some modifi¬
cations by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect in
Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-
Insurance Policy, is issued upon English Government
Securities, held in Trust, away from the control of the
Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims,
the amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium)
being shown by the National English Life Jable, com¬
piled by the Eegistrar-General for the Government to be
more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing
to continue the payment of his premiums, only sufficient
thereof is retained by the Corjporation to profitably cover
the risk incurred upon the life during the time it was
covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned
to the Insurant. The amount returned varies according
to the Table under which the Insurance is effected,
between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is
endorsed on every Policy, and is made payable at three
days’ sight. It can also be used to its full amount, by
payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum
withdrawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN-A. FEIGAN*
General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES,
Secretary.
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE
COEPOEATION, LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Head Offices.
BBOWN-STKEET AND MAESDEN-STEEET,
MANCHESTEE.
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may
be effected with this Corporation upon every description
of .property at equitable rates.
, Bonus Ehiurn.s.—In all eases where clsum. has
been, made upon the Corporatiijn duiftig theyean pre¬
ceding, a Bonus of ten Per cent, willoe returned on
•the payment of Eenewed premiums.
FIDELITY GUAEANTEE.
Policies are’issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing
Employers against loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of1
persons holding confidential and other places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the
Policies of this Corporation as security for the Poor Law
Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM-STKEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of
influence and standing to act for the Corporation in
unrepresented localities.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator,
• Plumber, and Gasfltter, desires to inform his
Friends and Employers that he has taken NEW
PEEMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Eailway Station. Estimates given for every
description of work in the above branches.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of
BIBDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOE OF
NATUEE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
AARON Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in Ona
Volume Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg : his
LIFE AND WETTINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con->
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop «tf Skara. II,
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. TV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
maybe had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.G., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAYEN OPENED. —Part II. being
further descriptions of, and advanced teachings
from, the Spirit Land. Given through the mediumship
of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the Scripture
proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11,
Ave-Maria lane, E.C., or F. J. T., 21, East Ascent,
St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Also Part L, price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
11
” Just Published. ' •
THE REPORT OF THE LONDON
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY'S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Reports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, pro and contra,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de Pomfir;
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Robertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson, Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, L&m Favre, Camille
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home, WiHiam
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varley, A. E. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &c., &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
British imperial life, and
BRITISH NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUAEAN¬
TEE) INSURANCE COEPOEATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Cor¬
porations can be made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief
London Offices, 20, King William Street, E.C., from
whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other infor¬
mation, can be obtained.
Price 2s. 6d.
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things Spiritual with
things Material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”
—Christian Spiritualist.
*** A List of Spiritual and Mesmeric works on applica¬
tion.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
■gJPPS’S COCOA.
The Civil Service Gazette remarks—“By a thorough
knowledge of the natural laws which govern the opera¬
tions of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful applica¬
tion of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr.
Epps has provided our breakfast-tables with a delicately-
flavoured beverage which may save us many heavy
doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CAGAOINE, a thin Evening Beverages.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN-
QUIREBS INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Stances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription 3s. per
quarter in advance. THOS. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
\TISS GODFREY, CURATIVE ME3-
MEEIST and EUBBEE. Clairvoyant Exami¬
nation and complete Diagnosis, One Guinea. Mes¬
merising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travel¬
ling expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161,
Hampstead-road, N.W.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER. *
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
Three shillings and sixpence for the first fifty
words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
ten words in addition. When four or more insertions
of the same advertisement are ordered, half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and four-
pence for every ten words in addition, each insertion.
Ten initial letters or figures count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertise¬
ments, because it circulates largely among those adver¬
tisers desire to reach, and an advertisement is not lost to,
view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not
usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters
consisting of personal opinions, for publication, ara
requested not to make them more than a third of a
column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received
for papers unaccompanied by a remittance. The next
twelve copies of The Spiritualist will be posted to any
address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
iEcntents.
The Spirit and the Body:—The Relation of Soul and
Body; The Influence of Thought upon the Heart
and Lungs; Spiritual Powers; and Spiritual Inter¬
course   .;. ... '    65 — 67‘
Canon Calloway on Psychological Phenomena, II.—
Sympathy and Presentiment; Spiritual'Pheno¬
mena among the Quakers; Dreams and Impres¬
sions; Second Sight; The Psychological Influence
of Opium; The Psychological Influence of Hashish;
The Psychological Influence of stramonium; The
Psychological Influence of Belladonna; The
Psychological Influence of Camphor; The Psycho¬
logical Influence ot Chloroform   67—69
The Systematic Appearance of Spirits   69
Correspondence:—Spirit Faces; Spirit Identity;
Instinct     70
Creation of the Earth   70
M. Thiers a Spiritualist   70-
Real and Sham Spirit Photographs   71
Manifestations through Miss Katie Fox’s Medium-
ship. By Enmore Jones ...    ... 71
The “ Spiritualist ” Newspaper   71
Answers to Correspondents       71
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,.
at the llolbom Printing Works, Fullwood's Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C. 1
