AND JOURNAL-OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 160.—(Yol. VII.—No. 12.) LONDON: SEPTEMBER 17, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Olontentg.
Spirit Teachings. No. X.LI  ... ... ...
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris  
National Association Spirit-Circles: A Seance with Mr. Williams 
Mr. Joy’s Experiences in America:—Spiritualism among Mormon
Offshoots—Spiritualism in San Francisco ...   
Farewell Address by Mrs. Tappan 
Testimonial to Mrs. Tappan  
Stone-Throwing Spirits at Kingston  
Dalston Association of Spiritualists:—A Ghost at Hackney Wick ...
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—
New Members—Finance Committee’s Report—Lending Library—
Free Seances—Visit of M. Aksakof to London—Reception to Mr.
Morse—Lectures and Discussions—Members of Council 
PoetryImmortality  ...  “    
CorrespondenceDirect Spirit-Writing in Glasgow—Marguerite
Marie Alacoque of Paray-le-Monial and Mrs. Girling of the New
Forest—The Uprooting of Priestcraft by Spiritual Phenomena of
an Elevated Character—Strange Speculations—Metempsychosis—
Spiritualists in Algiers—Tests Suggested by Dr. Robert S. Wyld—
Healing Mediumsbip—Mrs. Powell in America—Transfiguration
of a Medium—The Reincarnation Controversy 
Provincial News:—Spiritualism in Blackburn—Spiritualism in Chester-
le-Street—Newcastle-on-Tyne: A Seance at Weir’s-court—Omton—
Southport: A Vision 
Paragraphs:—National Association Prize Essays, 137; A Lady-Presi¬
dent of a Spirit-Circle  
Answers to Correspondents  '...
133
135
136
136
137
138
138
138
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
MR. UOGMAN’S QUARTERLY TEA-MEETING will
take place at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E., on Sunday,
Sept. 26th. Tea at five. Admission One Shilling.
EIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Foua per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of Neio Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathedrals, Lihge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fondfs par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
3 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
PARTS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Price 3s.
London :—Simpiun, Marshall & Co.
w
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A .Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALI STS.
OF
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will be held in London, at 38, Great Russell-street, W.C., from the 3rd
to the 5th of November.
General Programme.
Wednesday, November 3.—Opening Soiree—at the Cavendish Rooms, for
the benefit of Mr. Morse. Hours from 6.30 to 10.30.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Second
Session, 7.30. '
Friday, November 5.—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects for Papers.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism as a Religious
Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
5. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists —Its objects and
interests.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to be sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to be had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
Ihe probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be bad on application.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage Cid.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualni
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.
i i
11
THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 17, 1875.
BRITISH NATION AL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Heretord-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everit.t, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill. Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fi!z-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S.. 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Eamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-street, Llverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Riehmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T.. 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Lonis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys. EL T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., S, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Win. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O,
Meers, W. D„ Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent's-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A, LL D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent. Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. Hduse, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood,
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W,
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M. A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., am 3, Alien burg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orrae-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq.,Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W..
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, VFjK.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.(Cl
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-d©-®tap»
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Bliine,
near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha, h Bahdjd Capoussona, Con¬
stantinople. •-
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Fotschacb, Styria, via* Gratz,
Austria,
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.’
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Cl tevnltar
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect. 6, St. Petersburg,.^;
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26,' Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New YorK, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 856, West Thirty-second-street, New York
U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russoll-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 85, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epee Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. P. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Racb-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Monrgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich. Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Griinhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57. Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied Societies,
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W. ,
MU. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday eveniogs; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 dally. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.  '     
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States, on a lecturing tour.
He will return to England by the 20th October next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course.
W arwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative |Mesmerism (60 Years Established), attends patients
daily; from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
^OUL READING; or, Psychometrical Delineation
k3 of Character.—J. MURRAY SPEAR announces to his ndmeroua
English Friends that by the aid of Spirit-Intelligences he delineates cha¬
racter, describes mental and spiritual capacities, and sometimes indicates
their future and best vocations for health, business, and harmony. Persons
desiring information of this sort should send him their autograph, stating
age and sex, and forward by Post-office Order Nine Shillings; or for three
delineations to one address, a Guinea. Address: 2,210, Mount Vernon-
street, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S.
VOtUJVIE ^EVEJ'f. J^UJVIBER TWELVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 17th, 1875
Established in 1869.
pHAEG-E FOR ADVERTISEMENTSHalf-a-orown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one'word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom .advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United ^Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub¬
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
“ The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., which may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post-
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling. v
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
' The British Nationai Association of Spiritualists is fomed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and incpilrers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi¬
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies orjnot,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
UPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
J- Newspaper Connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
Of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.R.Si, Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. AlfredR. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Ledchtenberg; Mr. M. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.;
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Bamster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. (George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr.
James Wason ; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XLI.
[Jan. l%th, 1874.—From time to time changes hi the
hand were made, and I was usually informed of what
was being done. It seemed as though when one section
of their educational wor'c was complete, another was
entered upon under other guides. On this occasion minute
particulars (ivhich I do not transcribe) were given, and
a general retrospect of the past was added:—]
It may be well that we review the course of teaching
by which we have endeavoured to influence your mind
aright. We may at least urge you to go over in detail
what has been said, and to survey the broad expanse
of truth—such as is suited to your present needs—
which we have mapped out for you. You will see that
we have preached to you a nobler gospel revealing a
diviner God than you had previously conceived. To
your objections, again and again reiterated, demanding
proofs and tests which it would have been vain to grant,
we have replied step by step. And if we have not
succeeded in effacing from your mind doubts that have
lingered there, it is because the doubting habit of mind
has become so natural that we have found only rare
intervals during which we could penetrate through the
fog. You have wrapped yourself in an impenetrable
veil, and it is only now and then that it has been
lifted.
We have dealt more successfully with other friends
who have witnessed our dealings with you; and wo
thankfully look on that as proof of final success.
We shall in the end prevail even over that
sceptical frame of mind which is the hardest to
approach. We are most hampered by the impossibility
of bringing home evidence to the mind which, how¬
ever honestly, is unable to accept the grounds on which
we work : more especially since it is in almost all
cases impossible for us to grant specified tests im¬
posed by you with great force of will and in total
ignorance of the conditions which beset us. This
is a fact which you will do well to recognise
and bear in mind. The spirit of mistrust and
eager desire to entrap and ensnare us by a pre¬
determined test is one which defeats its own end. If
we be such as you suspect, it would be well that you
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extractsthey gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
134 THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 17, 1875.
have nothing further to do with such emissaries of evil.
If that be to you a position you would not assume,
then we counsel you to put aside mistrust, and cultivate
a feeling of frankness and receptivity. A brief time
spent with such a temper would enable us to do far
more than many years of such intercourse as your
present frame of mind necessitates. It is not, as you
imagine, that we will not, but that we cannot help you
now. We treasure up, indeed, the reasonable requests
of our friends, and if we cannot comply with them
literally, we do so in substance at another time. The
history of our intercourse with you throughout will
attest this. It is indeed a general law of spirit-com¬
munion.
Moreover, when your demand for a prescribed test,
on which your mind is strongly fixed, takes the form
of a request for some special information, the answer,
if given as you wish, would in most cases be imperfect
and unreliable,from the admixture of your own mental
action and that of the circle, so that in any case
your end would be frustrated. But we have done so
much as we could cheerfully. The question on which
your mind has been set, that of the identity of spirits,
has received more than one illustration of late, and you
have been compelled to admit their strength.
We have not done more of late than we have always
done, but we instance what has been done as an argu¬
ment for the wisdom of our advice to you, that both in
circle and in your private communion with us you seek
to maintain an attitude of perfect passivity, accepting
or rejecting what is offered according as reason dictates,
and deferring to a convenient time your final judgment.
Remember that there aro degrees of proof, and that
evidence very insignificant in itself may be vastly en¬
hanced by preceding or succeeding facts or arguments.
That which seems to you vague now may be rendered
precise by some further point long after; and many
proofs extended over long time have a daily added
weight. More especially is this the case when the
general and special results show unvarying truthfulness
in us who speak to you. At least you are not able to
allege that we deceive you. Our influence is not for
evil; our words are words of truth and soberness. We
are the preachers of a Divine gospel, suited to your
needs, and elevating to your mind.
It is for you, then, to accept the individual responsi¬
bility, from which none may relieve you, of deciding
whether, being what we are, we are deceivers in
matters of vital and eternal import. Such a conclusion,
in the face of all evidence and fair inference, is one
which none could accept save a perverted and un¬
balanced mind, least of all one who knows us as you now
do. Ponder our words, and may the All Wise guide us
and you. + Impekator.
[From this time fonvard repeated evidence of individu¬
ality perpetuated after bodily death was brought home to
me. I do not interrupt the course of the teachings to
detail them. Some were written communications, in which
peculiarities of handwriting, spelling, and diction were
accurately reproduced. Some were verbal communications
made through my own guide. Some were laboriously
rapped out in the circle. Some were corroborated by my
clairvoijant vision. The ways used to convey the informa¬
tion were Various, but all agreed in one particular. The
facts given were invariably literally and exactly true. In
most cases they related to persons not known to us except
by name, sometimes not even so much as that. In other
course of evidence continued for a long time; and
collaterally I developed a power of clairvoyant vision which
rapidly increased, until I was able to see and converse at
length with my invisible friends. The inner faculties seemed
to be opened, so that the information given received new
confirmation from my clairvoyant sight. This power
eventually developed to a very high degree. I had a
number of extremely vivid visions in which my spirit ap¬
peared to act independently of the body. During some of
them I was conscious of living and acting among scenes
not of this earth ; in others dramatic tableaux were enacted
before me, the object evidently being to represent some
spiritual truth or teaching to me. In two cases only was I
able to satisfy myself by collateral evidence of the reality
of my vision. I was in deep trance during each occasion,
and could not distinguish between the subjective impres¬
sions of a dream and the real occurrence of what I so
vividly saw before me, save that I could confirm in these
two cases what I saw and heard in vision by what I after¬
wards discovered from external sources. The scene in these
cases teas real, and I do not doubt that it was so in all.
This is not, however, the place to discuss such a point. I do
but note these visions as a phase of the development of my
spiritual education. It was always represented to me that
what was shown to me had a real existence, and that my inner
senses were opened for the purpose of instructing me
and of confirming my faith in things unseen by the
natural eye.
In the month of January, 1874, some communications
were printed relative to spiritual influences which were
round a son of Dr. Speer's, and ivhich, I was told, in¬
fluenced his musical powers. These were written out
April lith and Sept. 12tth, 1873. Some question which
I put on Feb. 1st, 1874, caused more information to be
given on the same subject. After some personal informa¬
tion-, it was written:—]
The conditions were bad last night for the music.
You are yet to learn the conditions under which it may
be had. Rot until you hear the music of the spheres
will you know the true poetry of sound. Music depends,
far more than your wise men have dreamed, on these
self-same spiritual conditions of which we say so much.
The spiritual elements must be in harmonious arrange¬
ment before a good development of that which is attain¬
able even on earth can be reached. Only then does
the inspiration really flow in. The room in which the
boy was rendering the thoughts of the Master was
filled with an inharmonious atmosphere ; hence we say
that the result was inadequate. It is with the musician
as with the orator. An harmonious rapport must exist
with the audience before the words can make their
mark. This the speaker feels, though frequently he
knows not that his words fall dead because the spirit
bond does not exist, and the inspiration cannot run on
the mesmeric chain between the orator and his audience.
The best results are had when the musician, the orator,
is surrounded by a band of spirits who can so dispose
his mind as to refine, harmonise, and spiritualise his
thoughts, or the thoughts of which he is the interpreter.
Even as there is. vast difference between a word
coldly slurred or heartlessly spoken, and the same when
it syllables the utterance of heart emotion, so is it with
music. The body of sound may bo there, but the soul
may be absent. And, though you know not why, you
mark the difference and feel the want. It is cold and
trivial, and thin—mere sound ; you shudder, and are
not content. Again it is full, rich, the soul’s voice of
melody, speaking thoughts that are born in fairer
cases they related to friends and acquaintances. This 1
Sept. 17, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
135
spheres and purer air than earth’s-spirit uttering cry
to spirit. The sounds are instinct with soul; they
have a language for the most irresponsive. They
breathe, their message to the spirit, the while they
subdue the bodily senses, and harmonise the discordant
jarrings of the mind. The dead body of sound is
animated with the soul of music. You hear, and are
satisfied. It is the whole difference between the body
of earth and the spirit that soars to heaven: the gap
that separates the material and earthy from the
heavenly and spiritual. Hence it is that conditions
under which true music is evolved rarely occur, at least
on occasions of great public gatherings. It is in more
harmonious air that the inarticulate voice of spirit best
unfolds its story.
[The communication was signed with the autographs
{exact facsimiles) of two well-known composers, as well
as by some other names known to mi?.]
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
For two or three months past many interesting letters by
Mr. O’Sullivan, of Paris, have been published in these columns,
setting forth how the police of Paris, after deservedly prose¬
cuting a medial photographer named Buguet who had added
imposture to genuine manifestations, have also sought to incul¬
pate M. Leymarie, the editor of the Revue Spirite, who certainly
had nothing to do with the matter. The police also attacked
the medium, Mr. Firman, a'gainst whom there is no reliable
evidence of complicity with Buguet. This onslaught upon
Messrs. Leymarie and Firman has been founded solely upon the
assertions of Buguet, who is proved by his own statements to
be a thorough scoundrel, * who will say anything to serve his
purpose; and his assertion was that Messrs. Leymarie and
Firman knew of his imposture all the time. M. Leymarie not
only has letters from Buguet proving that he knew nothing of
the tricks of the latter, but Buguet’s assistants attended the
recent trials to give evidence that when M. Leymarie was
expected to visit the studio, all the implements of imposture were
hastily hidden from sight. This evidence the higher courts to
which M. Leymarie appealed refused to receive, and by ex¬
cluding this vital evidence they were able, with a show of
justice, to confirm the sentence passed by the lowest court.
Thus the unfortunate victim has been hunted from one court to
another, and saddled with heavy expenses under a legal system
even worse than our own, admirably calculated to increase
costs, and, by virtue of technical points, to defeat the ends of
justice and of truth.
A strong impression prevails among Parisian Spiritualists
that all this persecution has been set on foot by the Jesuits;
indeed the opening attack was made in such a peculiar way as
to rivet the attention of some of the London daily newspaper
correspondents, who telegraphed to this country that the first
trial was of an exceptional nature, because there was no indi¬
vidual prosecutor in the matter, and because the police of Paris
had taken it up apparently upon their own responsibility.
Whether the attack in the Revue Spirite upon the pastoral of
the Archbishop of Toulouse against Spiritualism had anything
to do with the action of the police is not known, but at all
events, justly or unjustly, the idea is prevalent that a secret
organisation more or less connected with the Roman Catholic
Church is at the bottom of the whole business, and that with
that organisation one or more of the judges who officiated in
the later stages of the legal proceedings are believed to be
connected.
The question arises, “What is to be done?” If the Fi’ench
legal system is such that Buguet’s letters contradicting his
verbal assertions upon which M. Leymarie was condemned
cannot be read in evidence, and if the testimony of Buguet’s
assistants is also to be excluded, it is clear that there is a great
miscarriage of justice which the ordinary processes of
the French law are incompetent to put right. For this
reason one of the best methods of procedure seems to us to be,
that Spiritualists all over the world shall now bring the strong
pressure of unanimous public opinion to bear upon the French
Government. This may best be done if all the Spiritual societies
of England, America, and Europe concurrently pass resolutions
expressing their opinions of the case, and forward the
same to the French Government, asking to have the
matter thoroughly investigated. Such memorials should
also be accompanied by copies of the various Spiritual
periodicals expressing opinions about the trial, so that the
French authorities may know how extensively and keenly
their proceedings in this matter are criticised. The said memo¬
rials should be very short, otherwise they will not be carefully
read. Care should also be taken to state nothing in them which
cannot be substantiated, and the points of the rejection of evi¬
dence of vital importance to Leymarie, and of the insufficient
bail demanded of Buguet and of the ease with which he made
his escape when he ought to have been in prison, should be well
driven home. Other points in relation to which there is no
reliable evidence, but which ought to be investigated by the
French Government should be put in the form of questions.
The authorities might be asked who primarily induced the
French police to take the first steps, and that if anybody out¬
side the police force took such initial steps, the name of that
person and all the facts relating thereto shall be published. If
the Jesuits are at the root of the matter, it is desirable that the
French Government should know that they are interfering with
the actions of a portion of its executive, and the question ought
to be raised whether France is to be governed by its nominal
rulers or by a secret theological organisation. If any such con¬
certed line of action as this should be adopted, it is necessary
that Parisian Spiritualists should tell their friends in other
countries what to do in the matter, and when to do it. They
should also tell us what are the points that should be most
strongly set forth in the memorials. Being on the spot,
and more deeply interested than anybody else in these matters,
they cannot expect the rest of us to be so fully versed
in all the details, although Mr. O’Sullivan’s letters have excited
a great deal of interest both in this country and in other parts
of the world. Is it desirable that any such international action
as this should be taken before the next trial comes off ? If not,
when is it most desirable to set to work, and what is it most
desirable that the workers should do ? Information on these
points should be sent in condensed form from Paris, after which it
will be rapidlydisseminated in England, Belgium, and in America,
through the organisations and newspapers working in harmony
with the British National Association of Spiritualists, which
Association unfortunately has not yet concluded its arrange¬
ments for entering into alliance with Spiritual societies in Spain,
Portugal, Italy, and other countries. Nevertheless Spiritualists
everywhere can be rapidly reached through the press.
Much of the trouble now existing in the Spiritual movement
in Paris is due in the first place to too much blind faith on the
part of M. Leymarie, and in the second place to a lack of prac¬
tical experience in journalism, a pursuit at which amateurs are
as liable to make mistakes as they are in entering any other
profession without the requisite training. Supposing a newspaper
editor to be unacquainted with a technical subject such as
photography, when photographic questions come up it is his
duty to put an experienced photographer to deal with that par¬
ticular question, and not to attempt to lead the public mind by
writing upon a subject which he does not understand. And if,
as in this case, a knowledge of Spiritualism is also necessary,
because of the suspicious conditions which sometimes surround
genuine manifestations, then a Spiritualist photographer ought
to be selected io do this special literary work. Instead of so
doing, the Revue Spirite in Paris, and the Spintual Magazine
in London, have exemplified the old saying of “ the blind leading
the blind,” and both have fallen into the ditch. When M. Ley¬
marie was informed that a man residing at Dreux appeared as a
spirit in one of Buguet’s photographs, it is a pity that his faith
in Buguet prevented him from inquiring into the matter, and
from ascertaining if the resident in Dreux had ever sat for a
portrait in which his features are shown in exactly the same
position as those of the ghost represented in one of Buguet’s
pictures.
There is no absolute evidence that the Jesuits are at the root
of the persecution in Paris. This secret organisation was
founded in 1840 by Ignatius Loyola, a military religious fanatic
and medium, who believed himself to be under immediate
inspiration from heaven. He applied to Pope Paul for autho¬
rity to form the institution, and the latter at first refused, until
Loyola said that the members of his society should take a vow
of obedience to the Pope, binding themselves to go wherever he
should command. Paul gave the society the most ample privi¬
leges, and in less than half a century the order had estab¬
lished branches in various countries that had deserted the Roman
Catholic Church. The ordinary monk works in solitude; the
Jesuits consider themselves formed for action in the world ; they
mix with society; practise no austerities ; they study the disposi¬
tion of persons of rank, cultivate their friendship, and in past
136
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 17, 1875.
times had a secret and powerful influence in society. The func¬
tion of an organisation isto give strength, but a secret organisa¬
tion whose members are slavish devotees, working in blind obe¬
dience to their superior officers, must be a most dangerous and
evil element in any nation. The Jesuitical system had some good
points: under it good schools were established ; the members
of the order also took possession of the fertile province of Para¬
guay in America, which they governed with great ability, civi¬
lising the natives, teaching them various arts and manufactures,
and making them subservient to law and order.
At last the evil effects of such a secret power became evident.
The Emperor Charles I. checked the progress of the order in his
dominions ; it was expelled England by proclamation of James
L in 1604 ; Venice in 1606 ; Portugal in 1759 ; France in 1764 ;
Spain and Sicily in 1767; and assumed to be totally suppressed
and abolished by Pope Clement the XIY. in 1773. But social
usages are stronger than political edicts; so a great institution
like this could no more be killed suddenly than a whale could
be blotted out of existence in an instant. When large numbers
of persons are accustomed to certain habits of life, each rotating
in his own little orbit, habits thus acquired cannot be imme¬
diately suppressed by any law. Organisations have an organic
growth of their own, and cannot be suddenly cut away without
large numbers of persons suffering ; many of these persons may
not desire'to exist to the injury bf the test of society, yet may
not like to be despotically extinguished for the common good.
The circumstance that associations have an organic life of their
own, and that the sudden cutting away of even a bad organisation
may endanger the life of all the rest of the tree, is not generally
understood by violent reformers.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SPIRIT-CIRCLES.
A SEANCE WITH MB. WILLIAMS.
Last Friday evening the first of a series of Free Circles for
Inquirers was held at the Rooms of tho National Association of
Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street. The idea of such circles
was first suggested by Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester,
and afterwards put into the present form by the Seance Committee
appointed by the Council of the National Association for that
purpose. The object for which the circles have been established
is to provide inquirers with the means of attending well-regulated
seances with first-class mediums, under conditions calculated to
free their minds from every suspicion of trickery or collusion.
The meetings are supported by subscriptions from members of
the Association, who have the sole privilege of presenting
tickets; on these the names of the recipient and the donor are
both inscribed, and on the back some plain rules are printed,
with which each visitor is politely requested to comply. The
circles are conducted by two members of the Seance Committee,
whose business it is to receive and place the sitters, introduce
visitors to one another, and to provide for the general well-being
and comfort both of the medium and sitters.
At the seance last Friday Mr. Williams was the medium, and
as a large circle composed wholly of fresh inquirers would not
be likely to induce successful results, because the medium then
feels less at ease, there was among those present a fair sprinkling
of experienced Spiritualists, such as Dr. Gully, Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt, Mr. and Mrs. Cook, Mr. Tapp, and Miss Kislingbury ;
Mr. Tapp and Mr. Everitt were the conductors for the evening.
The phenomena, though, of an elementary nature, were decisive
and satisfactory. The table, which is a heavy one, was raised
several inches from the floor—some said as much as one foot—
while all hands were upon it; it afterwards beat time to the
tune played by the musical box. Musical instruments were
heard playing as they were carried round the room, above the
heads of all, while the hands of all the sitters were interlinked ;
and several persons were touched by spirit-hands.
Though the phenomena were only such as are in endless
variation continually produced at physical seances, yet there were
two points likely to arrest the attention of strangers, and to
inspire them with confidence. First, there was nothing doubtful
about the manifestations: they were decided—there was no
mistake about them; secondly, in consequence of a well-
considered system, previously arranged, tho proceedings were
conducted in an orderly manner throughout, without, at the
same time, any one feeling under restraint. All experienced
investigators will be ready to admit that at seances partaking of
a public character some attempt of this kind has been often very
much needed, and if the experiment should continue to be suc¬
cessful a valuable precedent will have been established, which will
prove of advantage to the mediums and to the cause which they
are instrumental in serving.
The next seance for inquirers will take place early in October,
with Mr. Williams as medium.
MR. JOY’S EXPERIENCES IN AMERICA.'
In the course of a letter to the Secretary of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Algernon Joy, writing
from Niagara Falls, says :—
SPIRITUALISM AMONG MORMON OFFSHOOTS.
“ Mr. William S. Godbe, of Salt Lake City, became a Mor¬
mon about thirty-two years ago, at the age of sixteen. He
gradually found out the error of his ways, and originated a
schism in the church, which ended in his being excommuni¬
cated about seven years ago, when about 500 members followed
him, and all became Spiritualists. Besides this, numbers of
those who remained in the church were holding seances, and
were becoming enlightened and liberalised; and the leaven thus
deposited has been working ever since, and has had an enor¬
mous influence on the young members, most of whom would
doubtless apostatize to-morrow, if it were not for associations.
Even the Mormons bow down to Mrs. Grundy.
“ When Mr. Godbe left the church he still believed in an
ideal Mormonism, in which polygamy and other curiosities
would have no place ; but he soon came out of that. He and
one or two others started a Spiritualist Society in Salt Lake,
and also a paper called the Tribune, which has since passed into
other hands, in consequence of financial difficulties brought
upon Mr. Godbe by his apostacy, and by his neglecting his
business in his zeal for reform. The Tribune is no longer
Spiritualistic, but is savagely anti-Mormon. Godbe and his
friends also bestowed a free discussion hall upon the society.
“ I need scarcely add that my sources of information are
various and reliable.
SPIRITUALISM IN SAN FRANCISCO.
“ I had not time to see much of Spiritualism at San Fran¬
cisco, but I saw something of Mr. and Mrs. Slocum, a very
attractive and .amiable couple. Mrs. Slocum is the active
manageress of a women’s printing office, where, as far as
possible, women do all the work.* There is a Spiritualist
society, numbering perhaps one hundred members, the more
active of whom are ‘ free lovers,’ or, as they style themselves,
“ apostles of social freedom.” The natural consequence is that
the majority of the Conservative Spiritualists (as they are
called, though they would be Radicals with us) hold aloof.
There seems to be a want of organising power and energy
among these latter, but as the existing society provides good
Sunday lectures at which free love is not even insinuated, the
Conservatives are content to attend, and put their money in the
plate. There have sometimes been four meetings on Sunday,
in which case, of course, one at least treats of free love, gene¬
rally in the way of discussion at the free debating hall. The
average attendance is, I should say, about three hundred per
meeting, though, when they have a lecturer a little above the
common, I believe they reach eight hundred or more. This is
pretty well for a town of 230,000 inhabitants, of whom a large
proportion are Irish Roman Catholics. But the great mass of
the de facto Spiritualists of the town, probably nine-tenths of
them, seldom or never attend the Sunday meetings, but go to
their own churches and chapels. Many of the pulpits, notably
the Unitarians, and after them the Wesleyan Methodists, are
leavened with Spiritualism, and hundreds of remarkable private
seances are held nightly, of which no account is ever published.
In the San Francisco directory, under the heading £ Clair¬
voyants, &c.,’ there are twenty-six names, of which twenty-
four are female, of mediums of different kinds.
“It is monstrous that free love, which has not the remotest
connection with Spiritualism, should play the cuckoo, and
shelter itself under our wing, thereby damaging our reputation ;
and I cannot understand the position assumed, not only by Mrs.
Slocum, who is certainly no free lover, as the term is generally
understood, but by the editor of the Banner of Tight and of the
Chicago Spiritualist at Work, when they say that they are
bound to afford a free platform, and therefore must admit free
love articles and letters. Suppose some eccentric mathemati¬
cian found out that the binomial theorem was a blunder, and
that the truth or welfare of Spiritualism depended on this fact
being clearly understdod, would these gentlemen feel bound
to admit the plea ? . . .
“I am going to rest for a season from my wanderings, in or
near Boston. The Eddys have sickness in the house, and
cannot receive me. Perhaps I may stay here two or three
months yet.”
Mrs. Hontwood is travelling in Switzerland, and hopes to
return to England in about a fortnight’s time.
Sept. 17, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
137
FAREWELL ADDRESS BY MRS. TAPPAN.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan having suddenly resolved to return
to the United States, in order to escape the severity of an
English •winter, returned to London a few days ago to deliver a
farewell discourse last Sunday evening at Doughty Hall, Bed¬
ford-row. The hall, which will seat from 200 to 250 persons,-
was well filled. After a few words from Dr. Hallock and Mr.
Burns, the latter of whom read a chapter from the Bible,
Mrs. Tappan rose and delivered the following inspirational
prayer: Our Father who art in heaven, Thou divine light,
Thou perfect soul, we remember Thy presence, always uplifting
our hands to Thee in praise, and asking for Thy strength and
love to be poured out upon us. At all times and in all places
Thy spirit is near, wherever we may be, whatever may be our
occupations or the thoughts of our minds. Whether sea or
land divide Thy children, or whether we be divided by that
greater sea of death, Thou dost bridge over all with the bright
rainbow of hope, and faith, and love. Time to Thee is nought,
for Thou art eternity; space to Thee is nought, for Thou art
omnipresent; death to Thee is nought, for Thou art life. What
is time to the soul ? The soul robbed of its outer tenement is
a living flame of light, that mounts upwards on the wings of
thought, and abideth for ever. There is no death. Time
changes the seed to the forest tree ; the soul suffuses the outer
frame and kindles the flame of life for a time, and Thy children
are afterwards bom in loftier forms. 0 Thou who hast raised
up prophets in ancient days to reveal Thy truth, let us feel Thy
presence here. Kindle Thou a flame of sacred fire ; make an
altar in every heart that nothing of earth can destroy. Wher¬
ever we may be, whether striving with the earth or with the
errors of man, may we be made for evermore pure with the
light of Thy presence through ministering angels, through
teachers sent of Thee, and may we know that our own hearts
abide with Thee for ever. Amen.
Mrs. Tappan, still in the tranco state, went on to say that it
was almost twenty-four months to a day since the first public
utterances through her lips were made in England. No epoch
since Spiritualism in its modern form had dawned upon the
earth thirty years ago had presented so hopeful an appearance
as the present; never before had there been so much candid
inquiry, or such a longing desire to know the absolute truth
about the origin and destiny of the human soul. In Spiritualism
facts, philosophy, and religion were reconciled; for once in the
history of the world the gap between science and religion—or
that which under the name of theology was supposed to be
religion—was bridged. There were facts enough in connection
with Spiritualism to prove or disprove any material philosophy
in the world; these facts had given evidence to persons
of every form of thought of the reality of immortality,
and this result showed how perfectly the world of spiritual
beings had done its work—a work which was not of mortal
mould. The spiritual world came knocking for the recognition
of mortals at a time when there was scarcely a voice to bid the
visitors to enter; yet they succeeded in making themselves
heard, and in establishing the fact of immortality so that it could
not be denied. How much they had done by the instru¬
ment through whom they wore speaking they left the listeners
to judge, and what the hearers had to do was to make known to
mankind scientific facts combined with the sublime and religious
system of spiritual truth which underlies the foundations of
existence. If nature was not governed by intelligence, man,
the outgrowth of nature, could not be governed by intelligence.
The vast mechanical appliances of the earth, the ships upon the
ocean freighted with the fruits of human toil, the electrical
spark which performs the bidding of man, the printing press and
all such material things, were but the appliances of the spirit
in its work of directing matter to the unfoldment of itself; thus
every work of science became a work of religion upon earth.
The world of spirit was a world of law; spirit obeyed the laws
of spiritual creation just as matter obeyed the laws of material
creation. Behind the mask which men called life the man or
woman sits controlling the mechanism which God has given to
the soul, to be used to the glory and well-being of earth and of
the spirit. The knowledge instead of the hope of immortality
was such a blessing that the ages alone could bear testimony to
its importance, and the angels alone could compass its won¬
derful meaning. That m^n should be sure of eternal existence
was so important for time and for eternity, that if all
the world had been engaged in the attempt to solve that one
problem, a successful result would be more than an adequate
recompense for all the means employed. If the theologian
stands beside a grave and tells a weeping mother that there is
no hope except in the little shred of creed which he holds in
his hand, she can now reply, “ I have heard the voice and seen
the form,” and the world could not rob her of the knowledge of
that truth. Knowledge of immortality applied a new charge of
fervour and enthusiasm to altars which had been waning for along
time for the want of flame. What wonder if the expiring Church
of Rome should gradually flicker into flame! What wonder if the
Church of England, with all its discord, should now have within it
a quiet body of workers who see hope for the spirit if not for the
body of the Church! So interblendedwere the spheres of human
life, that if there were misery in the outermost court of London
city they should not pause or rest until every individual step
had been taken to alleviate that misery; whilst one soul was
in trouble or spiritual darkness, no angel in the highest heavens
could rest until, through intermediate messengers from the
world of light, a message had been sent to relieve that spirit in pri¬
son. On behalf of themselves—the twelve guides of the medium—
on behalf of the friends above of the listeners present, on behalf
of the truth, which though forms and mediums perished would
still survive, they thanked the friends before them.
After a few remarks from Mr. Burns, Dr. Hallock, and Mr.
Enmore Jones,
Mrs. Tappan (still in the trance state) said that in consequence
of her sudden departure only one positive engagement to speak
in the provinces had been suspended, and as to the other en¬
gagements which were in progress, they fully expected—indeed,
could almost pledge—that she would return to fulfil them.
Nothing but the nature of the climate compelled them to take
their medium away in the midst of so much labour; but English
Spiritualists would not be left without those who would carry
on the work, for they expected the listeners to do it themselves.
Mr. Ward then sang, “ My peace I leave with you,” and ac¬
companied himself on the harmonium, after which Mrs. Tappan
extemporaneously delivered the following inspirational poem:—
Out of one day a golden hour
Was chosen onee by a loving soul,
Wherein with potent and perfect power
Her life might show God’s higher control;
And the golden hour grew to a sphere,
And gladdened the place with living light,
Until the surroundings far and near
Were radiant in that darksome night.
Out of the year a golden month
Was chosen to reap in the harvest time;
For, behold ! the seed had all been sown
And ripened beneath the sunny clime.
And the golden month grew to a year,
And the harvest increased throughout the land;
And the perfect gold of the sun’s bright sphere
Guarded and guided GodN faithful band.
And the year increased into a life,
And the life expanded to an age,
And man with man forgot his strife,
And all the sorrows of life’s page
Were changed into a song of j oy,
And the gloom became gold without alloy.
A drop descended into the sea
As pure and bright as the stars above ;
And the waves went out with wonderful glee,
And the water shone with resplendent love.
And the sea forgot its storms and winds,
And the voice above it was one of peace—
And no ships went down freighted with lives,
But only souls went up with release,
x For the little drop was a crystal tear
That brightened the pure soul’s atmosphere,
Because it was made of sympathy
Of the glorious light that is to be.
And the golden hour, and the golden month,
And the golden harvest of the year
Are those which all souls shall possess,
When throughout the world this atmosphere
Of peace and light and life shall dwell,
And no more strife or hate abide;
Only the golden ray of light—
Only pure water and its tide.
O Thou that guideth the wingfcd orbs
With rays of light from sphere to sphere,
Until the space is bridged across
And distant suns become most near—
Span Thou all spaces which divide
Thy children frond each kindred soul
Make them united far and wide,
By sympathy whose blest control
Shall make all hearts and nations one
Beneath Thy great and golden sun!
National Association Prize Essays.—Those competing for
the prize medals offered by tho National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, as advertised in another column, for the best essay “ On
the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society,” are reminded that such essays
should be forwarded not later than the first of next month
(October) to the Secretary of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street.
138
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 17, 1875,
TESTIMONIAL TO MRS. TAPPAN.
Mrs. Tappan is about to leave our shores for the United
States, and will carry away with her the good wishes of all
English Spiritualists. Her trance addresses have been well
received in this country, have made a favourable impression on
the public, and have softened the previously aggressive tone of
not a few provincial newspapers in dealing with Spiritualism.
Her inspirational orations are far superior to ordinary sermons,
,being of a higher, spiritual tone, though usually displaying less
concentration of thought and close logical sequence than the
educated ecclesiastical style. Her inspirational poems vary
considerably in quality, but occasionally some of them have
been equal to Shelley, notably the lines given under the title,
“0 Beautiful White Mother Death!” which made an enduring
impression upon listener^, of cultivated taste, and is often
spoken of in general conversation to this day. Mrs. Tappan is
a most excellent and useful speaker to deal with average
audiences. During her stay in this country she has set a good
example by serving solely the public interests of the movement,
by keeping aloof from petty dissensions, and by displaying
good-will to all. The good wishes of all English Spiritualists
will follow her across the Atlantic.
Since the above paragraph was in type, we have received the
following from Mr. Coleman :—“ Please announce that a com¬
mittee has been formed for the purpose of presenting Mrs.
Tappan with a testimonial prior to her departure for America.
Subscriptions to be forwarded to Mr. B, Coleman, 1, Bernard-
vjllas, Upper Norwood.
STONE-THROWING SPHIITS AT KINGSTON.
(From Our Special Reporter.)
Kingston-on-Thames, Tuesday night.
A paragraph in yesterday’s Daily Telegraph set forth that
for a week past numbers of shop windows had been smashed at
Hampton Wick by stones thrown by unseen agency, and that the
police had been unable to detect the culprits. Also that at
Kingston, on the opposite side of the Thames, and about a
quarter of a mile off, the premises of Mr. Penhey, an oil and
colour merchant, had been damaged in the same way. A
startling case of stone-throwing by spirits recently defied all the
acuteness of the Royal Irish Constabulary at Cookstown, in the
north of Ireland, as recorded in the Daily Telegraph and the
Belfast Daily News; another example perplexed the police of
Peckham a short time further back, and a large number of
similar cases were once collected and published by Mr. William
Howitt: consequently I visited Hampton Wick and Kingston to¬
day to inquire into the circumstances already mentioned.
At Hampton Wick I found several shops with smashed
windows, and was informed that the stone-throwing had been
going on for nearly a fortnight, but ceased last Saturday. It
usually began after dark, except upon one occasion, and I saw
that all the windows smashed were within a radius whence stones
might have been thrown by a human arm from a single fixed
point. Although the police were hit by the stones, and saw the
windows smashed, they detected nobody; still, as it was clear
that the damage might have been done either by the spirits or
by evil disposed persons, and as there was no preponderance of
evidence either on the one side or the other, I did not attempt to
hastily unravel the mystery, but came on to Kingston.
Mr. Penhey has a flourishing business here in the Market
Place ; he is intelligent and courteous, has a taste for art, and is
not at all pleased with the circumstances which have brought him
and his premises into such undesired notoriety that sometimes
several hundreds of persons congregate outside his door, and that
when I arrived I found two policemen on guard. The popular
idea here is that his house is thronged with affable ghosts, who
every night float him about his bed-room, and the street boys
venture to perpetrate a pun upon his name, and a hoax upon
their kindred, by sending in their more innocent companions to
ask—not for pigeon’s milk—but for “ A Penny Ghost.” If Mr.
Penhey tells the truth the incredulous listeners grin at him, so
he says as little on the subject as possible. The following, he
informed me, are the actual facts of (he case:—
“ I have lived in this house for five years, and have never
witnessed anything abnormal. About six weeks ago builders
began, under my instructions, to excavate under the rear of
these premises in order to enlarge them, when several skeletons
were dug up, as well as a quantity of loose human bones, also a
few coins several centuries old. The house appears to be built
upon the site of an ancient graveyard. . Last Tuesday pieces of
mortar and stones began to fall in the shop, usually in the
evening in bright gaslight, but on examining the ceiling no
mortar was found to be dislodged. Afterwards, in the
presence of witnesses, stones fell in some of the upper rooms of
the house while the windows were closed, and the investigators
standing by the doors. One night Mr. Turner, the jeweller,
with my apprentice Mr. Martin, and myself, searched the house.
A piece of brick fell upon the landing of the second floor
while no windows were open. It felt warm when I picked it
up. Search was then made at the top of the house, and as I
stooped down in one of the small rooms to look under the bed,
which was the only large piece of furniture in it, a stone fell
on the floor near my head. I said to the two standing near the
door,‘You threw that!’ but they protested'that they had not
done so. Exaggerated rumours about these facts have spread
all over the neighbourhood, and hundreds of people have con¬
gregated before my shop in the expectation of witnessing some¬
thing awful. I cannot account for the facts. I know nothing
about Spiritualism,) and have always treated it with levity.
The only conclusion I can come to is that these things are done
to annoy me by some person or persons unknown, in order to
injure my business. Up to the present time I have been unable
to discover their true cause. I have never seen any intelligence
connected with this stone-throwing, or heard any noises about
the house at night except those caused by mice. The stones
ceased to fall last Saturday, as at Hampton Wick.”
To-night I proposed that we should sit together in subdued
light, in the excavated portion of the premises, in which during
the afternoon I saw a piece of mortar fall vertically from under
the clean deal boarding of some stairs; Mr. Penhey heard the
noise as the mortar struck the ground, but did not see the
descent. By the screened light of a candle we sat in the
haunted region for half an hour, in company with Mr. Turner,
but nothing took place, though one would have thought that
the ghosts had every chance. We twice heard a noise like a
piece of mortar falling in the shop above, and Mi'. Turner after¬
wards picked up a piece on the floor there ; the said floor had
been swept clean in the course of the day. Those in the shop,
in which there was much bustle, had not hoard anything fall.
I rather fancy that the excavations have little or nothing to
do with the phenomena, but that mediumship has been deve¬
loped in the apprentice, or Mr. Penhey, or somebody in the
house, without their either knowing or desiring it; the argu¬
ment against this is that the disturbances do not appear to
follow them into other houses. In past times such disturb¬
ances have sometimes been found to accompany particular
persons, who were cruelly persecuted in consequence : but in
these days the spirit of fair investigation is rife, so that in
Cookstown the only persecution Mr. Allen suffered was at the
hands of undeveloped spirits, who sometimes cut the dresses of
members of the family to shreds while they were upon their
backs.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Last Tuesday night the Council of this Association met to
transact its usual monthly business. The minutes of the last
meeting, and letters from Dr. Wm. Pole, C.E., F.R.S., Mrs.
Showers, and Mr. F. A. Downes, were read. Dr. W. Monck was
elected a honorary member. The revised prospectus was sub¬
mitted and approved. Mr. F. A. Downes was elected an ordinary
member. Permission was granted for the sale of Mr. W. H.
Harrison’s recent publication, Spirit People, at the Rooms.
A. GHOST AT HACKNEY WICK.
The following report was then read by Mr. Blyton to the
Council:—
Ladies and Gentlemen,—Considerable excitement has recently
prevailed in the neighbourhood of Hackney Wick, Victoria Park,
London, in consequence of a startling report of a “ ghost ” to bo
seen of an evening, by the side of Duckett’s Canal, in close
proximity to the North London Railway bridge over the canal
at Wick-lane.
Accompanied by Mr. Henry Cook, a member of the Association,
I visited the scene of the alleged ghost’s appearance on Saturday
evening last, but was not fortunate enough to see the spectre.
However, on making inquiries in the neighbourhood, it was
alleged that a police-constable (117 KR) was the first person
who saw the ghost. He was going off duty when, while passing
under the railway bridge on the towing path of the canal, ho
perceived a white figure. On accosting it and obtaining no
response he proceeded to lay his hand upon it, when he was
astonished to find it vanish from his sight. Since this happened,
about a fortnight ago, the canal bridge in Wick-lane has been
139
Sept. 17, 1875. THE SPIBITUALIST.
crowded each evening with persons wanting to see the ghost,
and he, she, or it has obligingly appeared, if the various reports
may be relied upon.
With the view of obtaining the most reliable information, a
communication was officially addressed by me to the district
police-sergeant at the Bow-road Police-station, as well as to the
police-constable who first saw the ghost; but I regret to say
that the police-superintendent gave instructions that no infor¬
mation whatever on the subject should be afforded, while the
inspector who conveyed the reply to me was careful to express
his doubts of the whole affair.
In the absence, then, of the principal witness, I have endea¬
voured to obtain evidence from several persons who state that
they have seen the alleged ghost, and I now submit the state¬
ment of a witness who has consented to attend to repeat it
this evening.
Mrs. E. M. Walkey, of Bower-road, Victoria-park, states that,
accompanied by her son, three daughters, and son-in-law, she
visited the scene on Saturday evening, 4th inst., and at about
ten minutes to ten o’clock they all discerned an indistinct
cloud-like figure, draped from the shoulders down to the knees,
the legs being distinctly visible. The distance between them
and the figure would be between 30 and 40 feet. It remained in
view about two or three minutes, and disappeared suddenly in
the open space. It first had a luminous, misty appearance, and
gradually developed into a full life-sized form. Her son has
since repeatedly seen it on different evenings.
Thomas Blyton, Hon. Secretary.
14th Sept., 1875.
The above report was accepted, and ordered to stand over
until the next Council Meeting, in the meantime further
evidence to be sought for.
The Hackney Express of Sept. 11th says :—“ There are three
or four policemen on the scene every night. The police-officer
is now lying in the London Hospital suffering from the effects
of fright. It is supposed that the ghost was the original pos¬
sessor of a set of bones which had been carted into the shoot,
and naturally, or supernaturally, resents the indignity.”
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday evening a Council meeting of the British
National Association of Spiritualists was held at the rooms of
the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, London, under the
presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The other members pre¬
sent were: Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Martin R. Smith, Miss
Houghtop, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. T. H. Edmands, Mr. Thomas
Everitt, Mrs. T. Everitt, .Mrs. Maltby, Mr. H. Withall, Mr.
Samuel Chinnery, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. J. Freeman, Mr. E. Parkin¬
son Ashton, and Mrs. E. D. Rogers.
NEW MEMBERS.
The following new members were elected: Mr. B. W. Pycock,
Mr. T- Blinkhom, of Walsall, and Mr. Cromwell F. Varley, F.R.S.
The Comte de Bullet and Mr. O’Sullivan were elected
honorary members of the Association, and the following letter
from Mr. O’Sullivan was read :—
Paris, Aug. 8ft, 1875,
11, Avenue de la Grande Armee.
Dear Miss Kislingbury,—The Comte de Bullet and I have
received the notices in which you inform us that the Council of
the National Association of Spiritualists has done us the honour
of proposing to elect us as honorary corresponding members of
the Association. We beg you to communicate to the Council our
grateful acceptance of the honour thus kindly tendered to us,
and the assurance of ojir hope that we may hereafter better
deserve it by our efforts in promoting the propagation among
men of the knowledge of Spiritualism, which, to both of us, is
simply a revival of the primitive Christianity.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
* Mr. I. B, Rich, of the Banner of Light, Dr. Griinhut, vice-
president of the Spiritual Society at Buda-Pesth, and Mr. W. S.
Godbe, of Salt Lake City, were also elected honorary members.
Mr. J. W. Day, of Boston, was invited to become a correspond¬
ing member.
FINANCE COMMITTEE’S REPORT.
Mr. Martin Smith read the Finance Committee’s Report to
August 20th, which showed a balance in hand of £106 5s. 9d.,
and recommended bills for payment to the amount of £39 16s. 2d.;
it estimated the outstanding liabilities of the Association at £5.
LENDING LIBRARY.
The Secretary stated that several members had expressed the
wish that a lending library might be, formed in connection with
the reading room. The Association already possessed some of
the most interesting books in duplicate, and from these a
selection might bo made to form the nucleus of a lending
library. Some of the books were rare and valuable, and could
of course never be allowed to go off the premises. The sug¬
gestion had been made that friends in various districts might
unite to purchase any book which they desired to read, and
that the book-clubs so formed should present their books when
done with to the Association library for further circulation.
These were only suggestions, but the secretary requested that
the Offices Committee might be also appointed a Library Com¬
mittee for the further consideration of these ideas.
The Offices Committee was then constituted a Library Com¬
mittee.
The Secretary reported a letter received from Mr. Joy, ex¬
tracts from which appear in another column.
FREE SEANCES.
Mr. Tapp reported that the first free seance for inquirers had
been held on Friday last, and that it was a marked success. He
also reported the resolution of the- Committee, that any surplus
remaining after the expenses were paid, should be further
devoted to the promotion of seances of a like character.
VISIT OF M. AKSAKOF TO LONDON.
The Secretary announced that M. Aksakof was expected to
arrive in London about the 24th of this month. As the Council
was desirous of giving M. Aksakof a reception at the rooms of
the Association as early as it would suit him after his arrival,
the secretary was instructed to communicate with M. Aksakof,
and, as soon as the day was fixed, to make it known to the
members of the Association.
RECEPTION TO MR. MORSE.
Mr. Morse being expected to arrive at Liverpool about the
16th of next month, it was proposed that the meeting at which
he was to be received in London should be held about the 27th
October.
Mr. Rogers called attention to the fact that this date was only
a week prior to that of the Conference, which was also to be
opened by a soiree. In order that one might not interfere with
the other, Mr. Rogers moved that the two be combined in one.
Mrs. Maltby said that it had been usual to give Mr. Morse a
benefit meeting once a year, and perhaps this might be a fitting
occasion to observe the custom.
' It was therefore resolved that the Conference be opened by
a soiree on the 3rd November, at the Cavendish Rooms, the
profits on which should be for the benefit of Mr. Morse. Higher
prices of admission would consequently be necessary, and would
be fixed by the Conference Committee.
LECTURES AND DISCUSSIONS.
The report of the Committee on this subject was to the effect
that meetings for*reading papers and for discussion be held on
the fourth Wednesday of every month, beginning from the end
of November; the meetings to be held at 38, Great Russell-
street. Admission free to members, who would be at liberty to
introduce friends.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.
Mi\ Tapp moved that no person should be elected a member
of the Council until he had been an ordinary member for a
period of not less than three months. He said that as there
were not now many vacancies on the Council it was important
that they should be filled by the best persons the Council could
appoint, and that it was only fair to test the stability of their
adherence to the Association; he did not think that thyee
months was too long a trial.
Mr. Rogers seconded the motion, and it was carried unani¬
mously.
The proceedings then closed.
The Spiritual Scientist of Boston says that Mrs. A. E. Fay
will shortly return to England.
Mrs. Schletter and Miss Pauline Schletter are at Marienbad,
Austria.
A presumptuous scepticism is just as dangerous as too great
credulity. Both prevent correct observation.—A. v. Hum¬
boldt.
140
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 17, 1875.
Poetrg.
IMMORTALITY.
Thy massive beauties, O Yosemite! shall fade 5
Thy granite mountains crumble into dust;
Thy wond’rous glories cease, and be no more;
But never shall their memory depart
From us who have beheld them. They shall live
In our souls for ages. Aye! for evermore.
I thank God I have seen Yosemite. A. JOY.
Written at Yosemite, 24th July, 1875,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
DIRECT SPIRIT-WRITING IN GLASGOW.
Sir,—I had the pleasure of being present at a select sitting
■with Mr. David Duguid, the painting medium of Glasgow, last
Tuesday evening, at his house, for the purpose of receiving from
the spirits (who are writing through Mr. Duguid the book now
almost finished, entitled Hafed the Persian) in direct writing a
list of names of ancient kings of the Persians. Very simply,
yet marvellously, we received it, like numerous other messages
through the same medium, upon a card numbered and signed by
three witnesses, but otherwise unwritten upon. This was laid
upon the table, and the gas turned out. The latter circumstance
certainly, at first, does not improve the appearance of things,
but in the light of knowledge of spiritual phenomena it is easily
understood. Shortly the knocks told us to light up ; the card
was gone, and the medium found tied to his chair by the arms,
legs, and hands, as at the beginning of the seance. Nowhere
was the card to be seen. We had all held each .other’s hands,
and no one moved. We talked for a time, and waited in dark¬
ness again for the signal from Stein, the controlling spirit.
Shortly the signal came to light the gas, and we found what we
feel certain is the same card with the signatures, but having
one side literally filled with a list of names, and descriptions
partly in English, accompanying them. Meanwhile, the medium
was bound, and—wo cannot doubt who know him well—asleep,
in the unconscious trance.
These writings will have to bo translated, as they come in
Greek and Hebrew. Through Mr. Nisbet’s great patience and
care, a considerable volume of such collected writings is nearly
completed, as I dare say you are well aware. It cannot but be
interesting, as neither medium nor witnesses are capable of
writing some of the languages in which the messages are
received. We were favoured with numerous spirit-lights and
touches, far from the medium, and with the floating over our
heads of a large musical-box, playing away. At the close we
held hands on the table, and the table was lifted up a foot at a
time, and floated at that height. James Simpson.
141, Elderslie-street, Glasgow, Sept. 9,1875.
MARGUERITE MARIE ALACOQUE OF PARAY-LE-MONIAL, AND MRS.
GIRLING OF THE NEW FOREST.
Sir,—The student of Spiritualism learns to regard as possible,
even probable, much that seems abnormal to the general tenor of
English thought. For instance, he may believe in the Spiritual
source of the ecstasies as well as that of the bodily and mental
tortures which were endured by the medium Marguerite Marie
Alacoque, of Paray-le-Monial, to whose shrine so many devout
Roman Catholics • are in the habit of making pilgrimages, al¬
though he may entirely decline to accept the alleged identity of
the spirit who manifested to her, and, indeed, by whom he may
believe that she was most cruelly obsessed—for that obsessed she
was her own confession abundantly proves. So, too, may he
recognise the exercises of the Shakers in the New Forest as
really spiritual impulsions, although at the same time he demurs
equally—as in the case of Alacoque—to admit the alleged
identity of the spirit who inspires their leaders, .that alleged
spirit being the very same spirit by whom Marguerite Alacoque
also believed herself to be directly and physically influenced.
The student of Spiritualism, generally speaking, is led by an
axiom entirely in accord with reason and common sense, which
teaches that spiritual manifestations, like other things, must
stand on their own merits. A tree is known by its fruit. Figs
do not grow on thistles. The strongest assertions of a spirit’s
identity by the spirit himself is no proof of his identity in
itself as a general rule ; while the habit which the student of
Spiritualism has of judging spirits by their words and works,
and his belief that good spirits harm no one, teach him to deny
in its entirety the assumption that any beneficent spirit can
be the instrument either of cruelty or deceit in any way what¬
ever. And he further learns that a deceptive spirit, however
clever and however great his power of deception, is sooner or
later sure to betray his real character under the crucible of
unbiassed honest scrutiny and perseverance, while sometimes
his real character floats on the surface of his every utterance and
act. The Daily Telegraph of August 30th, 1873, and the same
journal of August 23rd, 1875, gives us—the former in the case of
Margaret Alacoque and the latter in the case of Mrs. Girling—so
much that is parallel and so much that is divergent
respecting two persons, both of whom allege themselves to be
under an identical direct influence, with intimate communion
with the same, and both more or less gaining converts, that
they necessarily present an interesting study together or
apart. What occurred to Marguerite Alacoque is told in her
own words. I here copy from the Daily 'Telegraph of August
30th, 1873, extracts from two only of what she called her espe¬
cial “ Visitations,” which will probably suffice to give an idea
of the character of the so-called “ Miracle of the Sacred
Heart ” :—
“ One time, being before the Holy Sacrament, I found myself
invested with the Divine presence so powerfully that I forgot
myself and the place where I stood, and abandoned myself to
the Divine Spirit, delivering myself over to the force of His
love. He made me repose for a long time on His Divine breast,
where He disclosed to me the marvels of His love, and the inex¬
plicable secrets of His sacred heart. . . . After this He asked
me for my heart, which I begged Him to take. He took it and put
it within His adorable own, in which I saw it like an atom
consuming in an ardent furnace. Presently He took it out
again a burning flame in the shape of a heart, and putting it
back in the place whence he had originally taken it, He said :
* There, my well-beloved, is a precious gauge of my love, which
encloses in your side a little spark of its most vivid flame.
And to prove that the great gift I have just made you is not a
freak of imagination, and that it is the foundation of all the rest
I have yet to endure from without, it shall come to pass that
though I have closed up the wound in your side, the pain will
rest always with you.’ ... I lay for several days in a state of
burning elation, and so far beside myself that I could not utter
a word without doing myself violence, and the effort to eat was so
great that I was nearly wearied out. I could not sleep ; for
this wound, of which the pain is to me so precious, caused me
an agony that consumed me and burnt me alive.”
Again, she writes thus circumstantially, “ Jesus Christ, my
sweet master, presented Himself to me in a blaze of glory, with
His five wounds sparkling like five stars.” And these are the
words of comfort which she received on this occasion: “ Every
Thursday and Friday I will make you participate in that
mortal sadness which I felt in the Garden of Olives—a sadness
which will reduce you, without your being able to comprehend
it, to a condition of agony harder to support than death itself. In
order to accompany me in the humble prayer which I then
offer to my Father, you shall rise every night between eleven
o’clock and midnight, and prostrate yourself with me, your face
upon the earth. This you will do as much to appease the
Divine anger against sinners as to soften in some measure the
bitterness I felt in being abandoned by my apostles, who were
not able to watch even one hour with me.”
Here we have before us a spirit still under suffering, and a
cruelly obsessed medium. Obsessed mediums often suffer from
the heart. Both spirit and medium are evidence, we do not
doubt, of no high type of Spiritualism ; we would say of a low
type, but still objects of Spiritualism. Note, the spirit betrays
himself by confessing himself as still suffering and having yet
to suffer; for he speaks of “ all the rest he has yet to endure
from without,” and he calls on his poor victim to endure then
“ a condition of agony harder to support than death itself,” and
to join him (thq spirit) in nightly prostration “ as much to
appease the divine anger against sinners as to soften then in
some measure . the bitterness he felt.” When? Sixteen
hundred years before the alleged manifestation ?
“ It may seem to be a horrid thing,” wrote Sir Garnet
Wolseley, when comparing Dahomey with Goomassie, “ that a
human being should be destroyed to propitiate an idol, or merely
to bear some foolish message from a living to a dead savage.”
But surely the mysteries of Dahomey, where human victims
are still slaughtered to appease angry gods, or to bear foolish
messages from the living to the dead, are better than the living
agonies of Marguerite Alacoquo! for the former victims are soon
put out of their misery, while the wretched Marguerite’s suf¬
fering was confessedly “ a condition of agony harder to support
than death itself,”
Sept. 17, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
Surely “ the dark places of the earth are full of the habita¬
tions of cruelty and surely the alleged bitterness of eighteen
hundred years ago, that needed softening by a poor woman’s
agony sixteen hundred years afterwards, must be an enduring
bitterness incompatible with the bliss and dignity of a perfect
spirit! A suffering spirit—not to say a cruel spirit—must, as
a spirit, needs be an imperfect spirit. But an imperfect spirit
who proves himself to be also a deceptive spirit, by assuming to
be that which he cannot be because he is an imperfect spirit,
must be of necessity an evil spirit.
“ I tell you,” said Mrs. Girling, according to the reporter of
the Daily T'elegraph—“ I tell you the gospel dispensation closes
with myself. Christ commissioned me, and after me He will
come to reign on earth. X know it. I am sure of it. So don’t
make a mistake any of you. ... I am perfect; so are you if you
are God’s children. You know me ; you see me—the mad
woman, the fanatic Mrs. Girling. Well, just as you know me,
and see me, so have I known and seen the Lord Christ.” And
when asked if she anticipated His speedy coming, she answered :
“From day to day.” In this case, then, the “ coming ” must
be speedy, or Mrs. Girling is controlled by a deceptive spirit.
Mrs. Girling, moreover, propounded another paradox quite as
startling as the last. She said, “ There is no death, even of the
body, for the Lord’s people. Christ has told me this; and
surely I may believe Him! I may believe Him, mayn’t I?”
To those who cannot believe with Mrs. Girling, but who
believe in the power of spirits to control mediums, these last
words are most touching and pitiful. And we fear that our
remarks concerning the deceit of the spirit who controlled
Marguerite Alacoque are only too applicable also in the present
instance. And what could Mrs. Girling do with her body of
flesh in the spheres, if she could get it there ? What an
assumption! Cave,
THE UPROOTING OP PRIESTCRAFT BY SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA OP
AN ELEVATED CHARACTER.
Sir,—Wo hear, and are likely to hear for some time to come,
much for and against Ritualistic—so called—practices, and much
has been said about Dr. Dellinger’s efforts to reunite Episco¬
palians in the English, Greek, and Roman Churches; whilst Canon
Liddon lately, in the Times, wrote that Christian men and women
if left on an island without a priest ordained by a bishop could
not rightly celebrate the Lord’s Supper or partake of celestial
benefits therein, but that God would probably make some special
arrangement as to the future of the souls placed in bodies thus
deprived of sacerdotal aid. It is a question for the educated
laity to answer practically, whether they will in any shape
whatever tolerate priestcraft. Can anything be more lament¬
ably absurd than that men most kind of heart, self-sacrificing in
their lives, having an earnest desire to serve God and to benefit
their fellow-creatures (for undoubtedly English High Church
priests possess these qualities in abundance), shall daily, in the
pulpit and in the press, set forth claims to,, the possession by
themselves of Divine power conferred upon them by imposition
of the hands of a bishop, whilst they are quite unable to show
such “ signs ” as we are told should “ follow ” them that have
the faith—those signs being abundantly manifested throughout
the ranks of the laity? It is of no use whatever for High
Church priests to say the age of miracles is over whilst they
daily arrogate to themselves the exclusive power of working
stupendous miracles. Let, them heal the sick, at any rate,
before they claim such powers; let them give some proof that
they are mediums between God and man. The strong common
sense of Englishmen is revolted by such arrogant claims—so
utterly contrary to Christ’s teaching—as are set forth by Canon
Liddon and others like him, although they may bo charmed
with his eloquence and be quite convinced that ho sincerely, if
not humbly, desires the good of all. This is a point on which
nearly all Spiritualists will agree with the majority of careful
thinkers throughout England and Scotland; and it is an inevi¬
table question which has to be and will be decided by the laity,
“ What is the value of Apostolical succession without Apostolical
works ? ” Hopeful.
STRANGE SPECULATIONS.
Sir,—The following considerations are the most powerful
I am acquainted with bearing upon reincarnation :—
1. The Kardec theory is a direct contradiction of the fact,
better proved probably than any other scientific fact spiritual
investigation has established, that the human spirit is created,
i.e., individualised, through parentage. Clairvoyance demon¬
states that every quality of the human entity, physical, intel¬
lectual, and moral, is concentrated in it at and before birth.
The same fact is universally illustrated on the physical plane of
observation by the great general similarity of children to their
parents, externally and internally. That there are many excep¬
tions to such similarity I admit and will account for later.
2. Proof of the most palpable kind is, however, forthcoming,
by means of the testimony of many spirits who are sufficiently
intelligent to account for all the facts of the French reincarna-
tionists upon another and better hypothesis. The whole thing
becomes intelligible at once when the simple fact of compound
consciousness is borne in mind; without the knowledge of this
fact vast numbers of spirits suppose that their sensations and
experiences are exclusively their own ; whereas it is thoroughly
established by the most astute investigators on the spiritual
side, and illustrated by thousands of inspirationalists on the
physical side (and other sensitives of all kinds), that every
phase of consciousness, including memory, is mutualised, shared,
with greater or less degrees of perfection, by two, three, or three
hundred distinct personalities. This is one of the many illus¬
trations of the vast economy of force, by which the great drama
of individual unfoldment is carried on.
8. The proof which the writer most relies upon, however, is
the confluent testimony of very advanced spirits, supported by
the physical facts called “ moles,” with which nearly every
human child is born. Roger Bacon, Zude, a Greek physician of
about 2,000 years ago, several German spirits of great pene¬
tration, and our own George Combe, have concurrently informed
the writer that reincarnation does occur on the following prin¬
ciples —Many spirits desire to renew their capacity to sympa¬
thise with and to alleviate human sorrows, and promote human
advancement by higher unfoldment. These choose their
guardians from among their closest friends, previously to de¬
scending to the physical sphere, to live again an incarnate life;
not exclusively incarnate, however, but conjointly with their
life in the spirit, to which they constantly return during the
sleep of the physical body which they shai’e as a habitation
during some sixteen hours out of the twenty-four as an average.
Having chosen their guardians, they next look out for a pair
of parents whose quality is sufficiently elevated to suit their
purpose. They sometimes spend a century or two in the pre¬
paration of conditions, through three or six generations, for
their advent. They next attach themselves to the egg ripening
in the ovary of the human nether: the point of their contact is
distinctly visible to the educated clairvoyant eye. They follow
the fortunes of the egg through all the stages of its embry¬
ology. The child is born with one, two, or it may be ten small
brown spots or moles on the upper part of the body; these
mark the point of contact of the different individualities who
have thus attached themselves to the newly-created personality
for the term of physical life, and often for long afterwards.
In corroboration of this theory of moles I have two facts to
offer: 1. Being accidentally in the presence of an astrologer
who had never seen me before, and who had no physical means
of knowing anything of my private history, he asked me the
date of my birth; having told him, he within five minutes gave
me the history of a chain of events which have occurred in my
most private life, and which I had not told to any physical
being. When I said to him that the facts were so, he then said I
ought to have certain moles on the body, whose position he
described, and which upon examination I found to be correct.
The other fact is as follows : I know a young girl who, when
about fifteen years of age, had a cluster—eight or ten—of these
brown moles developed upon the forearm near the wrist. They
were at first only just visible, but gradually became deeper
coloured, and now, at twenty years df age, are of a red brown
colour, and quite indelible. This girl’s mediumship commenced
about the same age, and has intensified ever since. Occasionally
she is levitated while entranced, and on these occasions there
appear upon the inner side of the arms from one hundred to two
hundred of these faint round specks, which gradually recede and
disappear when the trance is over.*
These facts seem to me to strongly support the testimony of
the spirits above named touching reincarnation. They speak
also of low gross spirits, who in like manner attach themselves
to the children of gross animal parents—and not to these alone;
but not with the motive of their improvement, but for the
sake of getting strong rapport with the physical sphere, in
which the grosser vitalities chiefly abound.
Gases of the latter kind form the best explanation I know of
those instances of deep depravity and exaggerated criminality
which so frequently make our newspapers unfit for family reading.
* During trances there is often a determination of blood to the surface of
the skin, bringing out into bolder relief spots and markings previously
present. This may often be noticed when public trance mediums are
quitting the platform.—Ed.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 17, 1875,
142
This theory of reincarnation is further supported by a great
number of facts of children being different in form and in
mentality from either of the parents and from any possible com¬
bination of the two. I mention two notable instances of this—
Robert Owen and George Stephenson. The parentage of both
was organically favourable to the actual development of both ;
but the other children of the same parents were entirely deficient
in the great development which happened to these, in spite of
the worst external conditions. Robt. Harper.
Birmingham.
[According to the custom of allowing much freedom of speech, we publish
this letter, but it is needless to say that infinitely more evidence than is
given in it is necessary to draw serious attention to this speculation about
moles.—Ed.]
METEMPSYCHOSIS.
Sir,—The theory of reincarnation seems like a revival of the
doctrine of Pythagoras. In the Pythagorean doctrine of Pa-
lingenesia souls went from one body into another, first having
drunk of the water of Lethe, “ epota prius Lethes undtl.” The
theory also partakes somewhat of Plato’s doctrine of reminis¬
cence of a former existence—“The second burden of a former
child and again in the Shakespeare sonnet:—
“ No 1 Time, thou shalt not boast that I do change.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
To me are nothing novel, nothing strange;
They are but dressings of ajormer sight.”
And there seems to be a shadow of this doctrine of reminiscence
in Mr. Herbert Spencer, and in Mr. Wallace’s fancy about mind
and instinct being built up in a measure from inherited expe¬
rience. As far as I know, my inheritance of that kind has
been very small indeed—inherited capacity, perhaps, but not
really the experiences. But this reincarnation theory is a most
curious fancy. The freedom of the spirit and reimprisonment
in a body; to forget all and begin afresh in the baby life of
another being—another individuality ; to be born again, and to
be no better off. Why not go back and be the soul of some
animal, as was the thought of the ancients? And I think Messrs.
Darwin and Wallace’s “natural selection” admits of a going back;
for instance, in cultivated pigeons and in the wild stock of the
rooks. However, I would not limit men’s fancies; theories can
only be accepted when verified by fact, but to verify the fact of
reincarnation would be difficult. The difficulty I think insur¬
mountable, and the rational improbability immense. Indeed, the
theory seems utterly at variance with the known facts of
Spiritualism as they stand accepted before us.
An Inductive Philosopher.
SPIRITUALISTS IN ALGIERS.
Sir,—I should be glad to correspond with Spiritualists, or
others interested in Spiritualism, residing at or near Algiers.
Letters to me after the 28th instant should be addressed Paste
Jtestante, Algiers. David Henry Wilson.
Lavender Hill, S.W., Sept. 12th, 1875.
TESTS SUGGESTED BY DR. ROBERT S. WYLD.
Sir,—I am glad to see a letter from my excellent friend Dr.
Robert S. Wyld, of Edinburgh, whose admirable works on force
have excited very general attention, not only on account of the
learning, originality, and scientific attainments displayed, but on
account of the very ingenious illustration by experiment; indeed,
he has been lately honoured by the University in consequence, so
that any suggestion of his in regard to experiments such as
would convince him, and which ought, he thinks, to convince all
sceptics, must be worthy of attention. But I fear that what he
suggests would not be more convincing to unbelievers than the
hundred other experiments and tests exhibited daily. The
pencil placed under the wire gauze cover might easily be
supposed to be arranged if there was ingenuity and the purpose
to deceive, but then comes the all-important question, “Whence
this universal ingenuity and practised ability ? ” To be a good
conjurer requires that a man should have attained very special
information and should have laboured for years before he can
deceive the eye and puzzle the understanding by performing what
he does. If, then, so many ignorant and untrained persons are
able to perform such marvellous tricks, it really becomes a
question of inspiration, and the existence of some superhuman
influence—and this is the very matter in dispute. There may
be illusion, and we know there has been collusion and deception,
but in at least nine cases out of ten I believe the result must be
perfectly reliable and genuine. Scepticism has its difficulties as
well as credulity. The other experiment suggested by Dr.
Wyld -Was made and with satisfactory results before Spiritualism
was heard of, and I hold the proof in my possession. It is a
question of clairvoyance, and offers two explanations—either that
the words are perceived by a direct emanation or influence from
the words themselves to or with the spirit so to speak of the
seer, much as in ordinary perception by the eye, or that it arises
from thought-reading or brain sympathy. The second theory
would be the more readily accepted, as falling in with a very
general class of facts in respect to sympathetic action, and
especially those exhibited in mesmeric phenomena, some of
which are related this week by Dr. Gully, and to which I could
add many of a similar kind. As Dr. Wyld is now staying in the
highlands of Scotland, I hope he may fall in with a case of
second-sight, for it is facts we want in all directions, and in the
end theories are sure to come all right—theories about the
nature of force included. Henry G. Atkinson.
Bonlogne-sur-Mer, August, 1875.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—If not toe late for this week’s Spiritualist, would you
oblige me by bringing before your many readers the great heal¬
ing power of Dr. Mack, who has set apart the Tuesday and
Friday of each week as free healing days, and through whose
skill I have derived such great benefit. I quite regret having
to leave here so soon for my distant home.
Charlotte Anderson.
9, Woodland Villas, New Southgate, Sept. 14th, 1875.
MRS. POWELL IN AMERICA.
Sir,—I feel sure that^all who knew Mrs. J. H. Powell will be
glad to have good news of her. In a recent letter she says:
“ You are getting much better manifestations in London than we
are here. I am still in the background, but am promised by-
and-by to come to the front. I saw Mrs. Conant’s remains last
Sunday; she looked quite natural. How are. you getting on
with the spirits? How I should like to come and have a
sitting; perhaps I shall some day ; at all events I hope so,
though I am very happy, and have not a care or even the
shadow of sorrow, but I do so love to see old familiar friends.”
Truly may Mrs. Powell feel thus, without a care or regret
for the past, for if ever woman did her duty in a patient,
devoted, self-denying spirit, she did hers to her poor long-suffer¬
ing husband during the tedious and terrible illness that preceded
his departure to the spirit’s home. Mrs. Powell was a good and
most truthful medium. I remember once she personated a
most excellent servant of ours (we shall not look upon her like
again) who was remarkably clean and much given to scrubbing,
and all the time she was influencing Mrs. Powell the latter had
to kneel and imitate scrubbing. “ Silver Arrow,” an Indian
spirit, would perform a most wonderful dance through her, and
also heal the sick; and the one constant cry of both medium
and spirit was: “ I want to do good! I want to do good I” Mrs.
Powell is not only a medium, but a true and zealous Spiritualist;
she and her husband were amongst the earliest workers in the
cause. Her affectionate, grateful nature never allows her to
forget those friends who helped her in her time of trouble; but
I will say ho more, lest I wound the gentle, modest spirit of
one so unconscious of any personal merit in aught that she
has done.
The Chinese have a proverb to this effect: “ The man of
small virtue boasts of his virtue; the man of large virtue is
unconscious of it.” E. D. P.
Brixton Bise.
TRANSFIGURATION OF A MEDIUM.
Sir,—Mi’s. Crocker, a highly respectable medium of Chicago,
related the following circumstances to me a few days ago. I
made a note of them at the time. Under directions from her
spirit-guides she began some months ago a series of seances for
developing a new phase of mediumship. These seances were
confined to her own family. One night when there was a bright
fire in the room, and the moon was also shining into it, so that
she thinks it would have been just possible to read ordinary
newspaper type, she was transfigured ; her face entirely
changed its form, size, and character. A heavy dark beard
came upon it. All who were at the table saw the same thing.
Her son-in-law, who sat next to her, on her turning her face
towards him, said, “ Why ! it’s my father himself,” and after¬
wards declared that it had been identically his father’s face:
his father had passed away. Shortly afterwards, Mrs. Crocker
was turned into an old woman with silver hair. She herself is
middle-aged, and has dark hair. These changes occurred gra¬
dually, and while the witnesses were watching her face.
I never heard of this kind of manifestation before, and it seems
Sept. 17, 1875.
143
THE SPIRITUALIST.
to me that it may throw a new light on the Huguet-Firman
affair, and tend to show that perhaps Mme. Huguet spoke the
truth when she said that there was only one figure in the cabinet.
It may also partially explain what occurred at Serjeant Cox’s
some months ago.
But if so, why do not these spirits tell us the truth about
these things beforehand, instead of getting their confiding
mediums into undeserved scrapes ?
Mrs. Crocker was perfectly conscious the whole time. She
experienced a very vivid tingling sensation all through her body,
exactly as though she had been holding the poles of a strong
galvanic battery. A. Joy.
Clifton Hotel, Niagara Falls, 27th August, 1875.
THE REINCARNATION CONTROVERSY.
Sir,—An Algerian correspondent of mine thus explains the
“ divergence ” of the views of Spiritualists and Spiritists :—
M Spirits of a superior order have the wisdom to avoid excit¬
ing the prejudices of those whom they wish to instruct. How
would a noble lord be disposed towards a doctrine which told
him that he may have been a cobbler or a light porter, and that
he may return one day to that mean position ? His ancestral
pride would revolt at such a monstrous thought, and he would
reject the whole doctrine on these grounds alone. In the United
States prejudices of colour would have the same effect. But in
France and other countries of Europe such prejudices do not
exist, at least in the same degree, and therefore spirits do not
fear to teach the doctrine of reincarnation as one of the funda¬
mental ideas of Spiritism or Spiritualism. It is in regard to this
doctrine, in particular, that it differs from ancient religions, all
of which teach that after death the wicked will be punished
and the good rewarded. Bpt such teaching is insufficient, for
oven by the faithful the joys and sufferings of that other world
are but vaguely believed in, whereas in reincarnation you have
the actual punishment of the guilty before your bodily eyes,
and you may even be enduring it yourself for the sins of former
incarnations. Such visible effects influence the feelings and
actions of men far more powerfully than all the theories, which
cannot be realised by the material sense.
“ I am ignorant of the reasons which cause some to reject
this salutary doctrine. My studies have taught me that the
doctrine of reincarnation is founded on such abundant and con¬
vincing evidence that to hesitate to admit it would be folly.
Take, for instance, the following:—
“ 1. The mediums to whom similar revelations have been made,
agreeing in the minutest details, are found in considerable
numbers in different parts of the globe.
“ 2. These revelations are often based on accounts so varied
and numerous that it is impossible to attribute them to the
imagination of the mediums.
“ 3. Certain spirits do not confine themselves to giving ac¬
counts of their past existences, but, when put to the test as to
whether they have been certain alleged personages, have not
failed to prove their identity.
“ 4. The destiny of man in each terrestrial life is regulated
by certain laws of justice and logic which it is important to
study and to understand. Thus the man who has misused
power and authority becpmfes in another life the victim of the
tyranny of others. The drunken husband who beats his wife
becomes in his turn the beaten wife of a drunken husband. It
is the application of the saying of Christ: 4 He who lives by
the sword shall perish by the sword.’
44 Allow me to cite one fact in proof of reincarnation. My
wife, some years ago, was a remarkable medium. She had lost
a brother and the daughter of this brothei’. The brother mani¬
fested habitually at our spirit circles, but suddenly these mani¬
festations ceased. After some months, being troubled at his
silence, my wife said to her niece : 4 What has become of
your father that he now never gives signs of his presence ?’
4 Papa is no longer in the spirit-world; he will soon be
among you.’ . . . (After some hesitation) 4 He will be born not
far from you, as a boy.’ (After further hesitation the spirit gave
the name of the future mother of her father.) All came to pass;
but my wife, who is sceptical, was not convinced. After the
child was born, she evoked his spirit during the sleep of his
body, and the spirit of the new-born child manifested at several
seances. My wife put a number of questions to him, in
order to test his identity, both with regard to his present and
his former incarnation. The answers given were correct; but
she was still not satisfied, saying that the spirit might possibly
have read her thoughts, the answers being already known to
her. 41 will question him on matters unknown to me, which
may be verified in the future.’ Trial was made accordingly,
and proved in the end successful, so that there was no longer
any room for doubt. I could relate many other facts. Spirit¬
ualism will doubtless work a complete change in human life ;
it will affect religion, morals, and all family and social institu¬
tions. . . Selfishness, that source of so many evils, will gradu¬
ally disappear, and with it war, misery, prostitutions, and the
insufficiency of institutions for public safety, therefore fires,
inundations, shipwrecks, and railway accidents.
44 But if differences exist on some questions in Spiritualism,
all its followers have one aim in common, that of the religious,
moral, and social progress of humanity. Let us be united in
this work. Let each study it from whatever point may recom¬
mend itself to his mind; we shall probably all agree in the end.”
  X.
Sir,—As reincarnation is a subject at the present moment
engaging the attention of Spiritualists generally, I should be
glad with your permission to ask how it is that a question of
such importance as this is involved in so much doubt and un¬
certainty.
Surely if Spiritualism is true it ought to settle the matter.
If it is possible that disembodied spirits can communicate with
man in the thousand different ways they are supposed to do,
even controlling his body and speaking by the hour together
with ease and fluency, they ought to be able, if the thing is
true, to give us absolute proof of that fact—of the time, place,
and conditions in which they before existed. This would be just
as easy for the majority of them to do (if they had any know¬
ledge of the fact) as it would for ninety-nine men out of a
hundred to prove they were born and reared in London, if such
had been the case. All the sentimental talk about good and bad
spirits differing on the subject is mere nonsense ; it is not a
question of quality at all, but of fact.
I speak from experience, living as I do and have done for the
last five years face to face with the great fact of mediumship
presenting itself in a thousand different ways. We have leamt
to place the utmost confidence in our spirit friends and com¬
panions, because they have proved their individuality and
ability by work actually done of the greatest material
benefit to many who have sought their assistance.
These spirits have often declared that reincarnation is nothing
but imaginary nonsense, on a par with that which is trying to
make Spiritualism a religion by preaching and praying about it,
instead of using all our power and opportunities to investigate
it as a scientific problem, in order that we may be able to lay
the bare facts before the whole world. John Rouse.
80, George-street, Sloaue-square.
IJnibtnctai Jletog.
BLACKBURN.
Spiritualism in Blackburn.—There is a sure and steady
work going on here, quiet and genuine, taking no great public
stand as in Liverpool, London, and elsewhere. Although nearly
every one connected with the movement is tolerably well known
as a Spiritualist, it is probable that in a town like this, espe¬
cially where the people when they advocate anything political
or religious do so with a whole heart, before Spiritualism takes
this decided stand, a battle, a long and tedious one, must be
fought with prejudice, theology, and in some instances with a
sort of stupid Secularism, which is strongly averse to Spirit¬
ualists coming boldly to the front with facts demanding atten¬
tion to the subject of spirit-communion, life beyond the grave.
Sunday Services.—Last Sunday evening many friends met
to listen to an address from Mr. Coates, of Liverpool, and also
to interchange ideas one with another. A gentleman com¬
menced the proceedings by giving out the hymn,44 Gather at
the river,” at the conclusion of which Mr. Coates arose and de¬
livered an impressive invocation under spirit influence.
Another hymn was then sung, and an address was delivered on
the text,44 We know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle
were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made
with hands, eternal in the heavens.” The address dealt more
especially with the evidences of the reality of spirit-power and
presence that Paul had in his day, and those who laboured with
him ; also the possibility of obtaining as certain evidence in this
our day. The address was listened to with attention throughout,
and seemed to give satisfaction. Mr. Stone, a gentleman of
position and an avowed Spiritualist, related to the meeting
some interesting experiences that had occurred during an inves¬
tigation of several years, including his earlier experiences
in mesmerism, his present experience with healing medium-
ship, and the satisfactory sitting he had with Mr. Walter
144
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 17, 1875.
Isaac, of the Psychopathic Institute, Liverpool. He did
not believe in mesmerism until he was thoroughly con¬
vinced by facts, and even then he could not see any possible
relationship between it and this absurdity called Spirit¬
ualism. But its facts staggered him, and could not be got
over. He could now see the relationship. Mesmerism was
undoubtedly a stepping-stone to things spiritual. Mr. Pemberton
then related some of his experiences of the reality of spirit
existence. He said he had frequently held communion with his
dear departed wife and with other spirits. This gentleman’s
remarks secured special attention, he being so well known and
respected. Mr. Pemberton, jun., a local medium, evidently con¬
trolled by intelligences of no mean order—the medium himself
being a thoughtful, intelligent man—for three-quarters of an
hour gave an able address on the moral philosophy of Spirit¬
ualism, the controlling spirit afterwards inviting questions: some
were put and ably answered. Some of the friends stated the
benefits they had received from Mr. Coates as a healer, and said
they were pleased to hear that he intended to remain in the town
two or three weeks longer. It was regretted Mr. Meredith was
not pi’esent, but he had to be in Liverpool. A collection was
made; the proceeds were handed over to Mr. Coates towards the
support of the Psychopathic Institute, this being the first public
acknowledgment of the kind of the Work carried on there. An
invocation by the guide of Mr. Pemberton closed this interesting
meeting, which lasted three hours and a half.
CHESTER-LE-STREET.
SflumiALiSM in Chestek-le-Street.—This town is situated
on the Durham-road* midway between Newcastle and the
cathedral city; it has a population of about 6,000, and is a
business centre for the colliery districts by which it is sur¬
rounded. It is a clean old English town, pleasantly situated.
Twelve months ago Spiritualism was practically unknown here,
since which time Mr. W. H. Robinson, a well-known resident and
an earnest Methodist, having become convinced of the truthful¬
ness of Spiritualism by contact with the Newcastle friends, has
fearlessly introduced the subject, first privately and now publicly.
A short time since a report was published in The Spiritualist
of a seance held in the phester-le-Street Liberal, since
which time Mr. Robinson has also engaged other mediums, viz.,
Mr. Sadler, of Cardiff, and Mr. Brown, of Howden-le-Wear ; in
addition several members of his own circle are developing
trance and other forms of mediumship, so that the subject
forms no small share of conversation in a place where every
one is known to every one else. Organisation has already
begun among those in the locality who are newly acquainted
with Spiritualism, and the result is that the Chester-le-Street
District Association announced two addresses in the High
School, Middle Chare, on Sunday last. In the afternoon Mr. T.
P. Fawcett, of Bishop Auckland, gave an address to about a
hundred persons,’ the subject chosen by the audience being,
“"What is Modem Spiritualism?” The discourse was ably
rendered, several questions were put by the audience, and the
meeting ended in a satisfactory manner. This is the first time
the medium has spoken in public as a trance speaker. Mr. J.
T. Rhodes occupied the chair, and made a few remarks on
“ Mediums and' Mediumship.” In the evening Mr. T. Brown,
of Howden, gave an address in the trance, Mr. W. H. Robinson
in the chair. The meeting numbered about 120, all that the
room would hold, and the subject chosen was, “ What is Man’s
Experience in the Spirit-World ?” At the close of the address
he answered several sensible questions, and the audience on the
whole was orderly, especially as the medium in his address
trod very much on orthodox notions of heaven and hell. Mr.
Brown is a man who at a glance it is easy to perceive belongs to
the working class. He is plain in appearance, and while under
influence speaks with much force and some amount of gesti¬
culation. He has not the calm philosophical manner of Mr.
Morse, but on the other hand a style that has great effect on
north country Methodists. Such a man is enabled to bring
home spirit teachings to their feelings as well as their intellects
in such a manner as to induce them to cry, “ Amen!” but might
not be so suitable for a polished audience. Mr. Brown has been
a Spiritualist about three years, and a medium a little less ; he
is respected as an earnest man where he is known. He has
various phases of mediumship, but he has of late developed
into a trance speaker and a test medium. His health is rather
delicate at present, apparently from over-work and care, as
during a missionary tour in the north lately he lost his work at
Howdon-le-Wear, and it is only lately that Mr. Brown has ap¬
peared as a public speaker. There are several private circles
here, and many mediums under development. The Rev. R.
Abercrombie preached against Spiritualism on Thursday
week, using the “ Devil Theory,” and the various sects are up
in arms.
NEWOASTLE-ON-TYNE.
A Seance at Weir’s Ootjrt.—On Thursday evening a seance
took place at Weir’s Court, at the Society’s Rooms: Misses Wood
and Fairlamb were the mediums. There were also present in
the circle Mr. Crawford, Mr. and Mrs. Petty, and their two
sons, so that the medial power was strong. The light was no
sooner put out than the musical instruments were floated about,
and the manifestations were of a Tapid and miscellaneous
character. Three mediums also were entranced at one time,
all of "them talking to the circle of sitters, which numbered
about five-and-twenty. Thus it was difficult to tell what was
going on except in the immediate vicinity of each sitter. At
the close of the seance the two lady mediums were found
strapped up, and on the floor was a pocket-book with three
pages of writing upon it, purporting to have been written by
“ Cissy.”
OUSTON.
This place is situated near Chester-le-Street, and in it there
are several circles and mediums, who have only lately began to
investigate. A young lady at the house of Mr. Joseph Batie
especially bids fair to become a reliable trance medium. A
sermon is announced to be delivered here against Spiritualism.
SOUTHPORT.
A Vision.—A meeting was held last Sunday afternoon in
Trinity Chapel, Duke-street, under the auspices of the Wes¬
leyan Juvenile Missionary Society, at which the Rev. E. E.
Jenkins, M»A., stated that a native who wrote to him a few days
ago, and who was called Soondram, he once received into his
house against the protest of his family; and for that man’s sake
he nearly lost his life, and would have lost it, if the Lord had
not been very near to save. That man’s father and friends
pursued him (Mr. Jenkins) as if he had been a wild beast; but
the Lord was very gracious and took charge of him and his
brother. However, that young man was taken from him; but
he afterwards escaped from his father’s house, and, returning
to the Mission, became a convert to God. He would never
forget his conversion as long as he lived. When they were
going home" together one night, he said to the youth: “Somo,
have you found Christ yet? ” The youth replied that he had not.
He (Mr. J enkins) then said to him: “ Do you remember what
Jacob said to the angel on one occasion ? ” The youth replied:
“ He said, ‘ I will not let you go except you bless me.’ ” He then
told the youth to follow the example of J acob, and advised him
when he saw the angel to lay hold of the skirts of his robe, and
hold him till he got a blessing. That seemed to fix itself upon
his mind, and next morning he came to him (Mr. J enkins) with
a smiling face, and said : “I saw the angel last night, and I held
him by faith, and said, I will not let thee go unless you bless me;
and he blessed me there.” The youth entered the missionaries’
college, where he was trained for the ministry, and for some
years past he had been a faithful and devoted and eloquent
minister.
Mr. D. D. Home is at Geneva, where he has been suffering
from diphtheria and neuralgia.
Miss Lottie Fowler is at present in Hungary, at the house
of Dr. Griinhut, Vice-President of the Spiritist Society at Buda¬
pest, of which the Baron von Vay is the president.
Mrs. C. L. V. Tappan paid a farewell visit to the Secretary
of the National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell*
street, on Saturday last.
Dr. W. Locander, of Bleecher-street, New York, and of Rue
Monge, Paris, has paid a short visit to London. He was present
at the late Spiritist trial in Paris, and speaks in the highest
terms of M. Leymarie.
A Lady President of a Spirit-Circle.—The spirit-circle*
St. Vincent de Paul, at Brussels, is presided over by a lady—
Mme. de Bassompierre. “But,” says a correspondent, “it is
more in her character as head of the household than as a presi¬
dent in the ordinary sense.” Spiritualists in England and on
the Continent have happily never made a difficulty of the
“ woman question,” but have tacitly and practically acknow¬
ledged the right of woman to do whatever work or to fill what*
ever position she has shown herself to be fitted for.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
F. R. Y., Swindon —The letter is so purely personal and theolo¬
gical in character as not to be suitable for these pages.
E. W. C;—No sensitive* was present during the experiments with
magnets;
Sept. 17, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGT, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
, ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. Od.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
Is. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s.: moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. Is. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Ered. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquiry's,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Science and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles ana the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country withwhich the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS’, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as ihey would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but, will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
6s. fld.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth.Best edition. Gilt, 10s; 6d.; cheap edition, 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM T(£ PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s. ,
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A Danskin, 4sr 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 660 Spiritual hyrnhs, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY ACHSA W- SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance sneaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Cd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the medfumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J._ T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POESfS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by-William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Gwen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 6s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM
7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge,
16S. -JX
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amaziilu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, MD., in three pax-ts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P
Barkas
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 3s. 6d. ’ .
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the "Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept.' 17, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Keformer.
The Thinker.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.' ’
Nature’s Divine Revelations .
The Physician. Yol. I. Qt. Hannonia
“ - ' , II.
, HI.
IV. „
.. y.
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . . .
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answeis
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—-on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , .
Morning Lectures , ....
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper ......
Keys of the Creeds ........
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particular
and legends relating to Buddhism .....
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) .....
History of American.Socialisms (Noyes) .....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) .....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to Indi;
(400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal
B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. .......
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts .....
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. .
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. ....
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . .
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnamhulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , • .
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul heyond the Grave
by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . , . . . 1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. ....
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special editioi
for Schools ......
4 0
4 0
7 6
4 0
7 6
3 0
4 0
2 0
3 0
7 6
«. d.
24 0
18 0
12 C
16 0
10 6
16 0
10 6
10 6
6 0
2 0
12 0
3 6
18 0
10 C
1 0
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MED1UMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s.
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
• ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam-
' phlet: “ There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conan t.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
SUPERIOR FURNISHED APARTMENTS, Drawing¬
room Floor, to be Let to a Gentleman dining out, in private house of
Lady and Gentleman, where there are no other lodgers or children, house
being larger than they require. Close to Redcliffe-gardens, South Kensing-.
ton.—Apply for address to A. B., Spiritualist Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamodt.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74,'Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest-,
R. Casson, Jhmes Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery, of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
I.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
In the Press and will be shortlypublished in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, noio an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. .—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Pajt II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
,, 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and,Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by tbe direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.C
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
THE GRAMMAR SCHOOL, DALTON-IN-F 0RNESS.
Inclusive Terms: Forty Guineas per annum. A Reduction for
Brothers. Prospectus on Application. Percy Ross Harrison, B.A., Pemb.
Coll., Oxon, Principal.
Brighton spiritual union rooms, 82, st.
James’s-street, Brighton. Open daily. Seances free on Sundays,
Monday and Wednesday evenings. As there is no Subscription for Mem¬
bership, the Secretary claims the privilege of each Member being known to
him personally before nomination. All Spiritualist publications on sale.
 JOHN BRAY, Mon. Sec.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
T710R the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
-I. DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpooi. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement.  J. Coates, Principal.
The progressive spiritualist ajnd ? free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyebman,
Price Threepence. To behad of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-ntreet, Melbourne
and all Australian Booksellers.
THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM is discussed
in the number of the NONCONFORMIST for Wednesday, Sep¬
tember 15th, in an elaborate Essay reviewing all the recent works on the
subject, and referring to late personal experiences. By a Man of Science.
Sent by post on the receipt of Fivepence. 18, Bouverie-street, Fleet-
street, E.O. , 
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Ailun, Aye Maria-lane London E.C.
