A F}ECOF(D Of THE PROQRE££ Of THE ^CIEJ^CE y\ND ETHICS OF 3PIF^ITU/TJJSM.
No. 25.—Vol. L
LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1871.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence*
THE WORK OF A PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
BY THE EDITOK.
As sooner or later a Pyschologieal Society is certain
to be formed to discover some of the laws governing the
marvellous spiritual phenomena now so common, it
may not he amiss to consider how it might begin its
work. ,
The spirits produce some of their manifestations by
mesmerising the medium. For instance, in many cases
of seeing mediumship, what the spirit thinks the
medium sees, just as a lecturer on mesmerism can make
some of his sensitives see what he pleases. The spirits
utilise this power to give teachings to the medium,
prophet, or seer, by means of grand symbolical visions;
the mesmeric lecturer uses it to make his subject
believe that a raw cabbage is an apple, in order that he
'may eat it, to the intense delight of the intelligent
observers: so far then, as utilising the power is con¬
cerned, the credit is all on the side of the spirits.
Trance speaking is also the result of mesmeric influ¬
ences exerted by spirits over the medium, and mes¬
meric lecturers can talk to an audience through a
medium. About two years ago some friends told me
that mesmerism was true, and not imposture or delu¬
sion; I thought this very probable, because I had just
discovered how thoroughly I had been deceived about
Spiritualism by orthodox men of science, so went with
a friend to a mesmeric lecture, for the purpose of
investigating. The lecture was given by Mr. Sheldon
Chadwick, in a schoolroom opposite Abney-park Ceme¬
tery, Stoke Newington. ’He had a pretty little girl
about twelVe ygars of,hgej'Blindfolded upon the plat¬
form, and he walked about among the listeners, asking
them to give him extracts from, letters or newspapers.
.When these were placed in his’BahT, the little girl some.
yards off read, the,'words and'sehtejiceA. “ Is tmsf done'
by collusion or not ?*M said T to my friend, “ We will
try for ourselves when he comes this way.” My friend;
gave Mr. Chadwick his hat, and asked that the name
of the hatter should, be n’ead. “What is the name in
this hat said the lecturer. “Jenkins,” said the little
girl. “ Right,” said my companion, “but what is his
address ?” She then gave the address accurately. I
wrote two words oil apiece of paper, and pushed the
paper into the lecturer’s hand. “ What name is on
this paper ? ” said the lecturer. “ Carter,” replied the
child. “ What is the other name? “Blake,” was the
answer, and she was right in both instances. We
selected proper, names, and watched that his questions
only consisted of three or four words, to be sure that his
questions could not be so framed as to give a clue to the
answer. The same tests were given to, perhaps, two
out of every three persons in the whole audience. At
the close of the lecture I asked Mr. Chadwick how it
was done. He replied, “ When she is in the mesmeric
sleep, and I wilt, very strongly that she shall repeat any
particular words or sentences, she speaks them.”
Here, then, was an example of a spirit in the body,
controlling a trance medium.
Hence, it is clear that some of the manifestations
produced by spirits out of the body can be produced by
ourselves while in the body. A Psychological Society,
therefore, might try experiments with a view of pro¬
ducing manifestations without the aid of disembodied
spirits. Many difficulties will have to be encountered,
and the results will often be of an unsatisfactory nature,
so that the work will lay bare some of the difficulties
spirits have to overcome to produce manifestations, and
will help to make known the laws which must be
obeyed in order to secure good manifestations.
As mesmeric operators often control media, it follows
that the experience they have already accumulated
must be valuable, so that before proceeding to actual
experiment, it might be well for a Psychological
Society to collect a mass of observed facts, without
opinions, from experienced mesmerists. Mesmeric
lecturers geem to have disappeared altogether within the
last few years. Where are they.to be found now that
they are likely to be wanted ?
The late Mr. William Gregory, F.R.S.E., professor
of Chemistry in Edinburgh University, gave much of
his time to the investigation of mesmerism; he pub-
lished-the results in his “ Letters on Animal Magnetism,”
and his experiments throw much light on the phe¬
nomena • now observed at spirit circles. Every¬
body knows how sensitive a medium is, while sitting
in a circle, to the mental atmosphere of different
individuals; how a person of a good and affectionate
nature makes him feel a pleasing influence, and how a
person of a low and unpleasant nature makes him
feel a disagreeable sensation, amounting sometimes to
absolute torture if the obnoxious person touches him.
Professor Gregory says of his mesmeric subjects :—
“ One of most striking facts in animal magnetism, is the
ease with which many subjects instantly detect the opposite
states of mind referred to, even when they are not proclaimed
in any way; as well as the sympathy, and attraction they feel
for those who are candid, the approach of whom is a source of
pleasure and of increased power; and their decided antipathy
to the uncandid, domineering sceptic, whose mere approach
distresses them, and diminishes their lucidity.”
The member of the Dialectical Society who became a
trance-medium while investigating Spiritualism, felt
great pain if certain persons came within two or three
feet of him while in the trance state. Miss Florence
Cook, of Bruce-villas, Eleanor-road, Hackney, the new
medium, suffers greatly if particular individuals touch
her while she is partially or wholly entranced. Possibly
this repulsion between persons of different natures may
be one cause of the separations between the heavens
and the hells of the next world. At spirit circles it has
often been noticed that the presence of several powerful
medinms and a great many people, is usually a cause of
comparative failure, and that better manifestations are
obtained at small circles with fewer mediums present.
The difficulties the spirits have to encounter in the
former case arc some of Ahem made known in the
following I experiments , ' published by Professor
Gregory:—
“There were present on that evening in all ten persons,
including Sir I). Brewster, Siy Walter C.,Trevelyan, Mr. B.,
Mr. Lpwis, Air/If.- W., the blipd German formerly rpentioned, ■
Thyself, besides fguk ladies, .Mr. Eh. 'ffl.'',' wfipiri I.was |
then in'the habit of' mesmerising daily id the forenoon, tpld
me, a few minutes after he entered the room, that he felt the
influence' of 'Mr.'Lewis very 'strongly, and soon afterwards,
while Mr. L. was trying to put Mr. B. to sleep in the front
room, Mr. W., who was engaged in conversation in the back
room, fell asleep. At the same time, Mr. B., who had gone
into the sleep, suddenly woke. Mr. L. then showed his power
of controlling muscular motions of Mr. B., which he did for
a time very completely, but all at once Mr. B. said, ‘ L feel
that you have no longer any power over me,’ and at the same
instant Mr. W., who was now nearer than before, fell into
a deep mesmeric sleep. Mr. L. was not aware of his having
previously fallen asleep, and had not thought of affecting
him; but it appeared as if he, being more susceptible, had
twice carried off the influence from Mr. B., without knowing
it. But this was not all, for it soon appeared that all the
four ladies were more or less affected, although Mr. L. had
never tried to affect them. It was proposed that he should
put one of the ladies fully to sleep, with the view of then
awakening her, and thus remove her unpleasant sensations.
This she declined; but Mr. L., at my request, tried to put
her to sleep by silent volition. This had just begun to act,
when Mr. B. came, not knowing what was going on, and sat
down, nearer to Mr. L. than the lady; and almost instantly
he fell asleep. The lady then allowed Mr. L. to put her to
sleep, which he did, and then awoke her, now free from all
unpleasant sensations; but, as she awoke, Mr. B. again fell
asleep. Another lady was then put to sleep, and was soon in
a very deep sleep ; but when I, observing Mr. B. asleep, spoke
to him, and finding that he would not answer, took hold of
his hand, he suddenly awoke and at the same instant the
sleeping lady, about fourteen feet off, suddenly awoke also.
All this showed that where a powerful mesmerist is in the
same room with several susceptible persons, the results are
very apt to be very much confused, and experiments may fail
which would succeed perfectly if only one susceptible subject
were present.”
If the operators in the above scene be supposed to
be out of sight, the rest of the picture faithfully repre¬
sents the confused and imperfect results which are
observed at an overcrowded spirit circle, with too many
mediums present. The trance mediums then often go
to sleep and wake up in the most unexpected way, and
very few messages are obtained. The whole subject
evidently presents a wide field for future experiments.
As mortals can produce some of the phenomena of
trance and seeing mediumship, can we also control a
“ circle,” and make tables move about ? Can we make
a medium float in rthe air ? The following paragraph
from Professor Gregory’s book bears, to some extent, on
the problem
I Mr. J. H. (the sensitive) was also made by the silent will
of Mr. Lewis, while talking to others, to move towards Mr.
Lewis, and follow him, till stopped by the rigidity which
never failed to appear. When Mr. Lewis stood on a chair,
and tried to draw Mr. H. without contact, from the ground,
he gradually rose on tiptoe, making the most violent efforts
to rise, till he was fixed by cataleptic rigidity. Mr. Lewis
said, that had he been still more elevated above Mr. H., he
could have raised him from the floor without contact, and
held him thus suspended for a short time, while some spec¬
tator should pass his hand under the feet. Although this was
not done in my presence, yet the attraction upwards was so
strong, that I see no reason to doubt the statement made to
me by Mr. Lewis and by others who saw it, that this experi¬
ment had been successfully performed. Whatever be the
influence which acts, it would seem capable, when very in¬
tense, of overpowering gravity. But, of course, I cannot
speak with certainty on this point. I saw, however, this sub¬
ject kept by Mr. Lewis’s influence for some time in a position
leaning backwards, in which he could not have remained for
a second without falling, in his usual state, and in which he
instantly fell, when Mr. Lewis’s influence was removed. ”
On Thursday evening, August 31st, in the course of
a walk with Mr. C. W. Pearce, president of the Kilburn
Society of Spiritualists, I mentioned as a philosophical
speculation, that experiment might possibly hereafter
prove that mortals can control a circle or medium, and
produce the table manifestations, just as spirits do at
present. On our arrival at his house in Cambridge-
road, half an hour later, Mr. Rhodes, of Canterbury-
road, Kilburn, called upon us, and stated that at his
circle some curious manifestations had been observed,
which he had not read of as occurring anywhere else.
When the circle is formed, Mr. Austin, the medium,
sometimes rises from his seat, and in the trance-state
begins to rub the top of the table all over with his hands ;
then he makes motions as if he were scooping some¬
thing from the top of the table, and throwing it upwards
in the air. Next he makes mesmeric passes over the
legs and other parts of the table. After these prelimi¬
nary operations, he stands at a little distance from the
table and waves his hand to and fro, and up and down,
without touching the table, which, however, heaVes up
and down, following the motiohs'of his hand. . A‘spirit:
with: a, s.tjopg mil is, Of course, ^pntrolling th@. m^&um,
9,nd- when the lable- begins to mqve it would be. interest^
ing if Mr. Austin and the spirit would step on one sidq,:
and let some man with a powerful will try if he alone
can govern the: motions of the table without touching
it; if so, he might then try if he could perform the
preliminary operations, and go through the whole of the
operations of controlling a circle for physical manifesta¬
tions, without any aid from disembodied spirits.
If this can be done, it will raise an altogether new
and very pretty problem in Spiritualism. People will
spring up who will very properly raise the argument
that although the man seems to move the table, it is
really done by invisible spirits. In short, it will be a
reversal of the argument sometimes raised at present,
that many of the manifestations ascribed by Spiritualists
to the influence of disembodied spirits, are in reality
due to the unconscious influence of the minds of the per¬
sons sitting at the circle,
I take it that a Psychological Society could best
begin its work by collecting a mass of the facts already
known to mesmerists; the various branches of the
subject of mesmerism might be classed under different
heads, and mesmeric lecturers be invited to state briefly,
under each head, what they know and have, seen, with¬
out colouring the statements with their opinions. Then
each of them might be cross-questioned by, the mem¬
bers of the society about' any points which may not
at first be clear. Afterwards many questions would
remain unanswered, awaiting experimental investigation
under the auspices of the society itself.
These ideas as to the work which might be done by a
Psychological Society are the thoughts of myself only,
but as others who desire to see the society formed have
also their thoughts as to the work it should undertake,
it is clear that when all the suggestions are put together
the society will not be idle for want of fields of action.
How some of the closest secrets of geology, and in¬
formation as to the lives and habits of extinct animals
may possibly be revealed by psychological powers", is
shown by Professor Denton’s most valuable experi¬
ments, some of which are published in Ho. 14 of
Spiritualist. The causes of the reliability and .un¬
reliability of clairvoyance also form fit subjects for
psychological research, and when clairvoyance is made
more uniformly reliable, we shall not only be able to
obtain information from distant places in a manner at
present impossible, unless under exceptional circum¬
stances, but we shall be on the road to the solution of
the grand problem of the possibility of establishing
communication between the planets.
In thus investigating Spiritualism as a science, the
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1871.
enquirers will at last in all probability find out that it
is a religion. Possibly it will be found that, to get the
highest and best communications, the medium must
have a good healthy body, must have a pure mind, be
highly educated, and in fact a model of perfection. But
as the minds of those present influence the medium, it
will possibly be found that the members of the scientific
society must be pure in heart, and mind, and life, and
body, if they do not wish to mar the messages coming
through a high-class medium, by sitting in the same
spirit circle with him. At present every Spiritualist
knows that certain spirits cannot communicate through
the medium, when certain persons are present in the
circle, and every medium knows that the character of
the manifestations is influenced to some extent by the
characters of the members of the circle. Thus scientific
Spiritualism may force upon the clearest-headed of its
votaries—upon the most uncompromising of the followers
of Auguste Comte—the absolute experimental knowledge
that it is a scientific religion, governed by laws as firm
and unchangeable as those which govern radiant heat,
and as capable of demonstration to philosophers who are
adverse to the abnegation of their rational faculties, when
considering religious or any other subjects.
During the last two years this journal has saved from
utter loss a vast mass of psychological phenomena,
which have been placed on record in its pages, well
authenticated, and uncoloured by the opinions of any
individual. In fact it has done some of the work which
ought to have been performed on a larger scale by a
psychological society. During the coming winter it is
to be hoped that such a society will be formed, to bring
scientific investigation to bear upon the marvellous
manifestations now so common. I should prefer that
the majority of the members of the council should be
men who doubt, and do not admit, the spiritual origin
of the phenomena, because then no bias is likely to
favour the acceptance of anything as a demonstrated
fact, which is not unquestionably proved. I have given
three years to the almost daily observation of Spiritual
manifestations at all kinds of circles, so know that a
psychological society must adopt the spirit theory at
last, and it is for the good of the movement that that
theory should have to force its way in the face of the
most determined opposition. Truth can take care of
itself—error alone requires artificial support to lengthen
its existence.*
MR. YARLEY AND PROFESSOR ALLEN THOMSON.
Mb. C. F. Yablet, F.R.S., wrote a rather sharp letter
to Professor Allen Thomson, of Glasgow, about the
attack on Spiritualism, made by the latter at the British
Association. In answer to the reply from Professor
Thomson, the following letter was sent:—
“ 2, Great Winchester-st. Buildings,
London, 19th Aug., 1871.
“ Deak Sib,—Absence from town has prevented me
replying earlier to your favour of the 11th inst. It was
not my intention to be offensive to you in my letter,
and I did not then, and do not now, consider that I
was as hard upon you as you were upon us in your
speech at Edinburgh.
“ The number of scientific men engaged in investi¬
gating phenomena called by some ‘ Psychic,’ and by
others ‘ Spiritual,’ is so limited that although you men¬
tion no names the public could have no hesitation as to
whom you referred.
“ It is a singular thing that when Mr. Crookes wrote
a paper upon ‘ Thallium,’ a new metal, he was believed
at once by such men as yourself. When last year I
wrote a paper to the Royal Society upon experiments
tending to explain that very unusual phenomenon
“ ball-lightning,” I was not doubted a moment; but
when either Mr. Crookes or I come forward and state
that we have seen in the most unmistakeable manner
phenomena not more startling than those described,
(but called * psychic ’) the scientific world seems to go
mad—dubs us liars, charlatans, or madmen, and treats
us in the same spirit as the Jews treated Jesus, or the
Roman priests Galileo.
“1 wish you and all to understand that it is not
a question of belief in the ' marvellous on our part, it
is a case of actual knowledge that these phenomena do
occur.
“ Time after time have I investigated them under
conditions in which trickery was impossible, and even
insanity insufficient to explain away what has occurred.
When six thinking men, all in full health, see the
same thing again and again, it is impossible for them
to be mistaken; and why you should gratuitously de¬
nounce what we state we have seen, and when one and
all of us are men who are believed upon other topics I
cannot understand. It occurs to me, therefore, that he
who is acting irrationally in this matter is neither Mr.
Huggins, Crookes, nor myself.
| Nearly all the gentlemen who have expressed their interest in the
formation of a Psychological Society are now out of town, and a month or
more will pass away before any preliminary steps can be taken. Among
those gentlemen are several who together would form a very good and
influential council. Those ladies and gentlemen who would like to join
such a society, and to see it started this winter, would oblige by sending me
their names ana addresses. The annual subscription to the society will
probably be two guineas, that being the amount of the subscription paid by
each member of most of the other learned societies in London.—Ed.
“ I presume, from your position in Scotland, that you
would be offended if I questioned your belief in the
‘ miraculous ' conception ’and ‘ vicarious atonement.’
I never offend you or others, by attacking you or them,
upon these points, notwithstanding it is the very reverse
of rational to believe them.
“ Why then you, who have done nothing whatever
personally to ascertain whether we are right or wrong,
should go out of your way to ridicule us, I cannot
conceive; it is certainly inconsistent at least, and
you may well understand how irritated I felt on see¬
ing you misuse (in my opinion at least) your presi¬
dential power, to deter others from investigating forces
which we most emphatically declare do exist—a decla¬
ration made only after taking every possible precaution
to avoid error on our own part.
“ I regret that I wrote with so much feeling, but
I was ill at the time, and have been so for the last
month past, and I read your statement as being equi¬
valent to a personal attack. I beg permission to with¬
draw that letter, as irritating communications can serve
no good purpose, but may do the reverse. In conclusion,
I wish to add, that I am as certain of the existence of
such psychic force and phenomena, as Messrs. Crookes
and Huggins have described, as I am that messages
can be and are sent from one side of the Atlantic to
the; other by means of telegraph cables, and that
I have had as conclusive proof of the one as of the
other. “ Yery truly yours,
C. F. Yabley.
“ Professor Allen Thomson, F.R.S.,
Glasgow University.”
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
The last number of The Spiritualist contained the
attack made upon Spiritualism by Professor Allen
Thomson, F.R.S., in his opening address as President
of the Biological Section of the British Association.
From his remarks it was plain that he knew nothing
whatever about Spiritualism, and had not the slightest
glimmering of practical knowledge of the subject. Per¬
haps the acidity of his remarks was due to the severity
of the hospitalities of the city of Edinburgh to its
learned guests.
Professor Allen Thomson said that he and his friends
had detected certain shameless and determined im¬
postors. He did not give their names and addresses,
and as it is not well that the President of a Section of
the British Association should leave impostors to prey
upon the public, should protect them by hushing up
what he has discovered, and by concealing the names
of the charlatans, he has been favoured with the follow¬
ing letters:—
‘ ‘ Kilburn Society of Spiritualists,
“August 21st, 1871.
“Sib,—On behalf of the above Association, and in the cause
of truth, I venture to request you to favour me with the names
and addresses of the ‘ mediums ’ whom you described to the
British Association recently as having been detected by your¬
self and friends as ‘shameless and determined impostors.’
‘‘Your obedient servant,
“ A. 0. Swinton, Hon. Sec.
“ To Professor Allen Thomson, &c., &c.,
“Glasgow University.”
The following is another letter which was posted to
him, registered:—
“ 74, Navarino-road, Dals^ton, London, E.
“ September 4th, 1871.
“ Deab Sib,—At a meeting of this association, held on the
31st ult., the following resolution was passed :—
‘ ‘ That the President of this Association do send a letter to
Professor Allen Thomson, asking him to be so good as to state
with reference to the remarks upon Spiritual Phenomena made
by him in his presidential address to the Biological Section of
the British Association at Edinburgh, the names and ad¬
dresses of those ‘ mm of eminence ’ (besides Faraday and Dr.
Sharpey) who have made Spiritualism the subject of inquiry,
and also the names and addresses of the ‘ experimenters ’ who
‘were detected in the most shameless and determined impostures'
by the ‘men of eminence' aforesaid, and by the ‘repeated
examinations ’ of Professor Allen Thomson himself. Also,
that in the event of no reply being received from Professor ,
Allen Thomson in a week’s time from the date of this letter,
a copy of the same be forwarded to the editor of the Spiri¬
tualist for publication.’
“ In submitting to you the above resolution of this society,
I trust that I may reckon with confidence upon a circum¬
stantial reply. The subject of Spiritualism having of late
commanded such attention among all classes of society, I need
scarcely point out how important it is that the researches of
scientific men into spiritual phenomena should be publicly
made known without reservation, and that any imposture in
the matter detected by them should, for the benefit of mankind
at large, be fully and thoroughly exposed.
“ Awaiting the favour of your reply,
“I am, dear sir, yours faithfully,
(Signed) “Thomas Wilks, Pres. D.A.E.S.
“Letter registered and posted Sept. 5th, 1871.”
This third letter was posted to him:—
“ 6, Cambridge-road, Kilbum, N. W.
“Sept. 8, 1871.
“Pbofessob Allen Thomson,
| ‘ Glasgow University.
“ Sib,—In the published report of the speech delivered by
you before the biological section of the “ British Association ”
at Edinburgh, the following words occur :—
“ ‘ I am aware that from time to time men of eminence, and
fully competent by their knowledge of biological phenomena,
and their skill and accuracy in conducting scientific investiga¬
tion, have made the most patient and careful examination of
the evidence placed before them by the professed believers
and practitioners of so-called magnetic, phreno-magnetic,
electro-biological, and spiritualistic phenomena; and the result
has been uniformly the same in all cases when they were per¬
mitted to secure conditions by which the reality of the
phenomena, or the justice of their interpretation, could be
tested—viz., either that the experiments signally failed to
educe the results professed, or that the experimenters were
detected in the most shameless and determined impostures'
“ As president of the Kilburn Society of Spiritualists, per¬
mit me to ask you whether the words which I have under¬
scored are intended by you to refer to those who are called by
Spiritualists mediums ; or whether you have introduced the
word ‘spiritualistic’ in your enumeration of occult forces,
inadvertently ?
“ If, on the contrary, you have used the word advisedly,
and clearly understand its import, you will not, I hope, refrain
from furnishing me with the names and addresses of the ex¬
perimenters who were detected in the shameless and deter¬
mined impostures.
“ You will see the necessity for compliance with this request
(i. e., if you do refer to spiritual-mediums in your strictures,
referred to above) as you will be as bad as they of whom you
speak, being an accessory after the fact. I enclose a stamped
envelope. Yours truly,
“ C. W. Peabce,
“ President of the Kilburn Society of Spiritualists.”
Mr. Pearce, in his letter, does not quite finish the
quotation from Professor Allen Thomson’s speech.
Professor Thomson’s words were “. . . shameless and
determined impostures. I have myself been fully con¬
vinced of this by repeated examinations.’”
The following is the only reply which has been re¬
ceived to the foregoing letters:—
“ 11th September, 1871.
“ Deab Sib,—I regret that in consequence of my residing at
present in Invernessshire, considerable delay has occurred in
the transmission of your letter to me from Glasgow.
“ From various communications similar to that which your
polite letter conveys to me from the ‘ Dalston Association of
Enquirers into Spiritualism,’ I perceive that my remarks
upon the examination of mesmeric, magnetic, and other
similar phenomena have been so far misinterpreted as being
held to apply specially to the phenomena of Spiritualism: and
perhaps the manner in which I expressed myself warranted, to
some extent, that interpretation. I must now state therefore
that my intention 'was only to place the phenomena of
Spiritualism in the same class as those of mesmerism, animal-
magnetism, phreno-mesmerism, electro-biology, table-turning,
and other such states ; most, if not all of which I was of
opinion had received sufficient examination from qualified
physiologists, and to which I had at one time devoted a ’consi¬
derable share of my attention. I regret to find also, from the
tone of some communications I have received, that my remarks
have given offence to some. I beg to assure you that this last
I should wish particularly to avoid. And desiring that any
statement of mine on such matters should be entirely free
from all injustice and disrespect to others, I have deemed it
proper, in recently revising my address for being printed in
the Transactions of the British Association, to make such
alterations in the latter part as may express more clearly and
correctly my meaning, and remove, as I hope, all cause for
personal offence, which it is obvious should never enter into
the discussion of any general scientific or supposed scientific
question.
“ I expect ere long to be able to send you a corrected copy
of the printed address.
“ Believe me, dear Sir, very truly yours,
“Allen Thomson.
“ Thomas Wilks, Esq., President,
Dalston Society of Enquirers into Spiritualism.”
From this it would appear that Professor Thomson
spoke a little too hastily at the British Association, so
that the subject had better now be permitted to drop.
WHAT MR. GUPPY THINKS.
TO THE EdITOBS OF THE “ DAILY TELEGBAPH,” THE
“ Obsebveb,” the “ Echo,” and othebs.
Gentlemen,—In the Daily Telegraph of the 3rd July, the
Observer of the 30th July, the Echo of the 8th June, and in
some others, my name and my wife’s are mentioned. I there¬
fore ask you to publish this letter, in case you feel honourably
bound so to do. In France you would be obliged to. The
law there is that whenever an editor mentions a person’s
name, connected with circumstances, he is bound, under
a penalty of, I think, 100 francs a day for delay, to publish
that person’s reply and comments. I saw this acted on in
Paris. It is no more than just, for without any libel, or idea
of libel, a person’s name may be published in connection with
circumstances which are not exactly stated ; as, for instance,
you say—“ Mr. Herne dropped in one evening” {Telegraph),
whereas it was at about half-past ten in the morning.
I take all you have said about myself in very good part; I
have been very intimate with editors, and well know that
they are obliged to flavour their articles, particularly on
tabooed subjects, with as much care ns the French cooks did
the horse, dog, cat, and rat which they served up during the
siege.
Not exactly so my better half ; for when a lady finds herself
in print as “one of the biggest women in London,” “the
female Guppy,” (Telegraph) “ one of the largest and heaviest
women,” “ connected with Dickens’s young man of the name
of Guppy,” she may be pardoned for thinhing that either too
much or too little has been said about her. To remedy this is
one cause of this letter. There is also another cause, which 1
am happy to see has furnished you and your craft with many
jocular remarks on “Cool Mr. Guppy, to sit down to 'supper
[a very hearty one], and then go to bed, and doubtless fall
fast asleep [perfectly true] while the partner of his bosom was
riding through the air.”
Although you have played some able variations on the sub¬
ject, and doubtless your readers have coincided with you, not
one of you have said what Mr. Guppy ought to have done
under the circumstances. How should you ? You know
nothing, or rather, only very partially, the circumstances.
If a steamer runs on a sand bank, the female portion of the
passengers may go into hysterics, and the male portion be
more or less alarmed, while the captain, who knows there is
no danger, may eat a hearty supper, and even go to bed, tell¬
ing the mate to call him when the tide turns.
I wish to explain this matter—not on account of the English
public, whose belief or non-belief on any subject which does
Sept. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
195
not touch their pockets is much of a muchness with that of
sheep who follow the bell wether—but on account of a few
thoughtful men, say ten in a million, who live in different
countries of this earth, and who would wish to know every,
even the; slightest particular connected with the most re¬
markable and best attested manifestation of “spiritual”
power which has ever taken place.
Yes, that which in London has only been’hdticed once, and
that more as a peg to append the comic reflections of the
editors who placard the walls with announcements, “ Largest
circulation in the world that which has even now passed
away, and is thought of no more by the mass even of educated
people in London, or, if thought of, set down as a successful
trick, except by the comparatively insignificant body of
Spiritualists, will engage the thoughts of serious men living
in countries thousands of miles off, where Queen Mrs. Grundy
is not queen paramount, and to those men every detail will be
acceptable.
If two governments get into a quarrel which does not con¬
cern us a halfpenny, off go, en masse, “ our own correspon¬
dents,” and for weeks or months the papers are filled with the
most trivial incidents; in fact, “ our own correspondents ”
are in many instances such Paul Prys that both sides wish
them—anywhere else.
No “ own correspondent ” was detailed off from the staff of
any leading paper to investigate this matter, so as to enable
the editor to place it before the public as a serious truth, and
not the subject of a comic essay.
Why ? Because England is a class country. There is
Archbishop Grundy, Bishop Grundy, the Rector Grundy, and
the Curate Grundy, and with them the subject is tabooed.
“ It would unsettle men’s minds,” which, rendered in intel¬
ligible English, means, “ It would affect our pockets.”
The Duke of Grundy, Lord Grundy, and the Grundys of the
upper ten thousand, with their ladies, and the clubs and
coteries which they honour, go hand in hand with the Bishop
in not unsettling men’s minds;
The army and navy follow in the wake of “ Church and
Queen.” The Royal Society, the Anthropological, the Ento¬
mological, the British Association, and the Social Science
people are shopkeepers. “ The public does not like the article,
sir.” The great British public, taken collectively, is a very
curious animal indeed. Heavy taxation, increased competi¬
tion, and the love on the part of his better half of being
genteel, have made this animal an indefatigable money-
grubber ; the consequence is, that even in his hours of ease,
while on the one hand nothing interests him which has not
profit or loss connected with it, on the other he seizes with
avidity the most trivial thing to bet on. He can’t have a
billiard table in his house without making the play a money
question. If horses are to run, or two boats to be rowed, or
the question of “ Tichborne or not Tichborne ” is raised, all
takes with him the colour of his daily drudgery of money
getting.
Here was the most astounding of modern events, but there
was no bet on it. What mattered it to him ? A bet—curious
thing—a profitless transaction as to whether Glaucus beats
Diomedes by half a neck in a race, proving nothing, for Dio-
medes might beat Glaucus next day, but again there would be
a bet. The bet is the thing; the bet makes the event a
matter of business, and tens of thousands of the animal man
are for weeks beforehand studying the various reports which
the papers teem with as to the state of health and muscular
powers of two horses.
As little Peterkin observed, “ What good came of it at
last?” (Telegraph.') Poor boy! he had come home for the
holidays from Dr. Grundy’s school. Stupendous ignorance,
Mr. Editor. What good has come from a fact ? That depends
on the quantity and quality of the brains of the observers of
the fact. All steam-engines, railroads, electric telegraphy,
photography, agricultural improvements, owe their rise to
brains, investigating facts which have existed since the crea¬
tion of the world, if not from eternity, but which, probably
from man in his transition from the ape to the human state,
having to pass through the stage of little Peterkinism, did not
find out.
But the bet is the thing, sir, for John Bull. Put it as a bet
and the Stock Exchange will take it up directly; the clubs
will jump at it; “ Own correspondents ” will be active in
furnishing the editors with reports on the probability or im¬
probability of the event taking place.
Well, then, I’ll propose a bet.
I have declared, or rather asserted, from my observation of
this power that it is a matter of conditions being complied
with or induced. That is, your first Atlantic cable was not
strong enough, and it was a wonder you got a message before it
broke. To drive a ball through twenty inches of solid iron,
certain conditions of the gun, the powder, and the ball are
requisite. Now I have stated to friends (over a cigar and a
glass of “ cold without ”) that such conditions might be super¬
induced, that the elephant should be brought by spirits from
the Zoological Gardens, and deposited in the ceptre of the
Bank of England, all the doors of the bank being locked, and
a guard round the bank too.
I am not going to bet that, but to do business. I will bet
my wife’s diamonds against the Crown jewellery (to make it
a national affair) that she shall, after so strict an examination
as to satisfy a jury of matrons, go either into the inmost re¬
cesses of the Bank of England, or into the deepest dungeon
of the Tower, and the doors being locked and guarded, there
shall be brought to her something she did not take in with
her. It may be the elephant, or a lion, or tiger, or dog, or
cat, from the Zoological Gardens, if the Committee allow it,
or it may at first be only flowers or fruits, but something she
did not tahe in with her. Something that will prove, as surely
as engineers send a ball through an iron plate, leaving a hole
where it passed, so surely can spirit power convey a living
organism, plant or animal, through iron doors and stone walls,
leaving bo mark of its passage. In fact, I asked Katie once,
“ Which can you bring an object through the easiest, a glass
window, a wooden door, or a sheet of iron ? ” “ Through the
iron,” said she.
Having now settled Mr. Bull’s business in the way most
suitable to his national taste, I turn with pleasure to my
friend in the interior of America or Australia, who has read
the articles in the Telegraph, the Observer, and other papers,
and who wishes to know a little more of the dramatis personce,
than can be gleaned from the simple mention of “ the female
Guppy, one of the biggest women in London,” and 1 cool Mr.
Guppy,” and to give precedence to the fair sex, I begin with
the lady. Miss Nicholl lost her parents in her infancy, and
was taken charge of by her grandfather, Mr. Nicholl, an
eminent sculpture and intimate friend of Flaxman. Con¬
tinually with him in his studio, she not only acquired a taste
for the beautiful in sculptor and painting, but having an im¬
mense fund of health and strength, she turned her hand and
head to electro-plating, modelling, and photography, and
when need was, handled a hammer, chisel, or saw, as ably as
most men. At the same time she not only looked after her
grandfather’s comforts, but was so devotedly attached to her
garden, that if flowers have any feeling, next to sunshine her
presence in the garden gladdened them. Possessed of a
powerful and symmetrical frame, and an exquisite ear for
music, dancing was a real pleasure to her, and four o’clock in
the morning, after standing up to every dance, found her as
fresh as when she began at ten o’clock. Wrapped up in these
pursuits, never having heard of Spiritualism or table-rapping,
she became intimate with a lady who was a Spiritualist. At
a small family party she was asked to sit with the others at
a table ; very loud raps ensued. They declared her to be the
cause. She denied and laughed at it, but it was soon proven
that she was a most powerful medium. The gentleman at
whose house this took place was Mr. Wallace, the intimate
friend of Rajah Brooke, and chairman of the Entomological
Society. Miss Nicholl afforded him facilities for looking more
effectively into Spiritualism. With frequent sitting her powers
became more developed, and one day, to her and every one
else’s utter surprise, a quantity of fresh flowers were brought
by the spirit at a seance. From that time her life was
changed, and persons of the highest rank were only too glad
to get her presence at a sea/nee. All this occurred during
about two years before the date of our marriage, December
10,1867, and after about four months stay in London and
giving farewell seances to her friends, we went to Ostend for
the summer. The love of sculpture and the fine arts which
she had previously cultivated, re-appeared, and she told me
that she had vowed to go to Rome, were it barefooted. We
made a three years’ trip to Paris, Florence, Rome, Naples,
Greece, and Venice, and she sedulously visited every gallery,
sending home to her grandfather a large collection of the best
photographs of the ancient masterpieces. We returned to
London thirteen months ago. Some of the seances she has
given since are recorded in the Spiritual Magazines, not by
her or me, or at our solicitation, but with our permission by
gentlemen present.
That she has got stouter since we married, must be laid to
the door of the clergyman, who laid strict injunctions on me
to “love, honour, and cherish” her. I do not know any
further particulars to give of her, except that when she gives
a stance she has the art of making every one pleased and com¬
fortable ; and if a stranger is recommended to her, she does
not leave him or her “ in the cold,” but makes him feel himself
at home at once.
Now for your humble servant the “cool Mr. Guppy,” the
“ unluckily quondam ” young man of that name. In Smiles’s
History of the Huguenots, the family is mentioned as coming
from France at the time of the Revocation of the Edict of
Nantes, and my brother Robert took the armorial bearings
which were on the old family plate to the Herald’s Office in
Paris, and they were at once recognised as those of the counts
of that name, now in Normandy.
I have always avoided publicity—don’t care about it—hate
a crowd, and detest a mob. Am considered eccentric—perhaps
very. Like a “ friend and a bottle to give him.” De Ville
phrenologized me, and said two remarkable things : “ Great
faculty for language,” and “ Good at tracing effects to
causes,” and it is true that without bestowing much trouble
on the languages, I have passed as a native in several countries
in Europe. And it is true that beginning at a very early age,
as my mother told me, I broke my drum to pieces to find out
what was inside of it. Having had at intervals a great deal
of spare time, there are few subjects that I have not at my
fingers ends, not cursorily, but going on till I could get no
farther. Formerly, in more active life, if my steam engine
was out of order, or a pump bucket, 150 feet down, broken, I
did not go to bed as I did when my wife was carried away,
but sat up the whole night, seeing every valve and screw well
fitted. So, what with chemical and astronomical works, and
photography, and billiards, and figures, and intently watching
the conduct of the ministry and the House of Commons (this
last wants filtering sadly ; dissolving is no use, it does not
get rid of the impurities), keeping an eye on France (which
had to solve the problem of excessive taxation without revo¬
lution), and the Pope (I lived in Rome two years, and the head
of the secret police was my constant visitor)—in fact, without
going farther, it’s as much as I can do to keep pace with all that
the brain of man is now working out.
And then Spiritualism—but I have done studying that. In
1862 I went and lived close to the Exhibition, and studied
! everything in it. I had a book in sheets, wherein I ridiculed
the idea ; but before the printing of the book was finished,
events had occurred before me, which proved that there was a
science which scientific men knew nothing about.
Now I think I have said enough about myself. My friend
and neighbour, Hudson, the photographer, who was with me
the evening of my wife’s transit, was assistant-secretary to
the Botanical and Photographic Societies. I don’t recollect
saying (Tefoyrap/t), “ No doubt the spirits have carried her off,
but they will take care of her ? ” but Hudson assures me I
said so, “not,” he says “seriously, but to get rid of Miss
Neyland, who was in a fidget.”
When supper time came, I certainly did not know what to
think, but as a Mrs. , a relative, living about a mile up
the road, had been dangerously ill for some time, it would
have been strange, but not impossible, that she might have
gone there, and finding her worse, have stayed. But when
loud raps came, and Katie told me she had carried her to the
seance in Lamb’s Conduit Street, I had no doubt of it. After
Katie carried her there, she came back, and took the first
opportunity of letting me know.
An analogous thing took place in Florence. I had gone to
have a chat with a friend, a medical man two streets off, and
while we two alone were chatting in his studio, loud raps
came on the table, though neither of us were mediums_for
such manifestations.
Well, the Spirit said that she was all well, and that there
were nine persons at the seance.
“ Nonsense,” says Mrs. Grundy, “ what is a Spirit ? ” Well
Ma’am, I am very much surprised that you who profess to be
a religious woman, should ask such a question. It is a Familiar
—just what Moses called it, and the best name for it, only that
Moses made a law that all men or women having such should
be put to death. And why ? Just for the same cause that the
Roman Catholics burnt people. Just because it did not suit
his or their Book. The Jewish priests crucified Jesus Christ
for the same reason. Mankind will commit any atrocity
(the slave-trade to wit) from self-interest, and religious bigots
will commit ten times more cold-blooded atrocities than
others. Now about our familiar and why I should not have
been alarmed; first, I have seen it carry my wife in a room
where only she and I were, as easy as the wind carries a leaf;
next, it will not promise or attempt to do a serious thing
which it cannot do; thirdly, its happiness is bound up with
ours, I have known it rock the child’s cradle at our bedside.
It has often come in the night and rapped and said, “ Baby is
ill, you will lose it if you don’t take care.” It is reasonable,
and will give reasons, and hear arguments.
We gave a seance at Florence to the Spiritual Society;
About twenty-five persons, noblemen, artists, physicians and
ladies. The spirit said—“ It has been asked in this com¬
pany if we (spirits) can see in the dark. We will show you
Light 1 ” A heap of sugar-plums of various colours was on
the centre of the table. We put out the light, and heard a
rattling noise. “ Light 1 ” The sugar-plums were sorted in
heaps of each colour.
i One evening a very intimate friend, a medical man of the
highest repute, was taking tea with us. He complained of
occasional racking pains, and sleepless nights, but added, “ I
know what it is, I shall suffer as long as I live.” “ What is
the matter with you, doctor?” I said. “Well,” said he,
“ Years ago I was dissecting a woman. I took every care, but
afterwards I felt a shooting pain up to my shoulder. I found
I had wounded myself in the middle finger. Since then I
suffer—at times more, at times less.”
“ Let us darken the room, doctor, and hear what Katie will
say.”
The spirit said, “ I will bring you a remedy which you must
apply immediately,” and in a minute something rattled on
the table. “ Light! ” and there was an issue pea with its
plaster and a piece of caustic potash to burn the arm with.
My wife took up the bit of potash in her fingers, it began to
melt and she dropped it on the carpet. It was spoiled. We
put out the light and in an instant another fresh piece of
potash was put on the table. The doctor then and there burnt
a hole in his arm, applied the pea and plaster and'trapped it
round with his handkerchief. Going down stairs to go home,
he turned round to me and said, “ Don’t mention this to
any one.” ,
Now you must recollect that my wife being at a sSanoc
without me is a tiding of very frequent occurrence. I would
not go to many of the sScmces she goes to to oblige friends, on
any consideration, to sit still for two hours and hear twaddle
and rubbish talked. “ Shall I be married soon ? ” “Is the
gentleman attached to me ? ” “ What horse will win the
Goodwood ? ” She was in the habit of going alone to seances
as Miss Nicholl. Occasionally her grandfather fetched her ;
impudent, disgraceful, and insulting as the conduct. of a
portion of the English nation is to ladies, walking alone in the
public parks, still a lady can safely go home in a cab in
London.
Added to that I was dreadfully tired that evening. If I had
stayed up I should have dropped asleep on my chair. I write
this now at three o’clock a.m.—not at all sleepy I could
surmise why I was so tired, but have no proof. My wife often
goes to a stance at the West-end, and in spite of my warnings
that her health will suffer, allows friends to keep her so that
she is not home till one o’clock. We do not sit up for her.
She has a latch-key.
Plenty of ladies come to our house alone and go home late,
either by cab or rail.
My taking a cab and going to Lamb’s Conduit-street would
have been no use and very ridiculous—that’s all I have to say.
And now, two or three words more on this unusual occur¬
rence. I have talked with the spirit or familiar since, and she
or it has told me that conditions existed on that evening which
enabled her to do it and which might never again occur.
There were there besides the mediums, five of our personal
friends who had been at our house at seances. Mr. Morris of
Manchester, Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, Mrs. Edmiston, and Mr.
Harrison.
“ But why carry her there ? ” Well, from some reasons pro¬
ceeding from a higher source than I can safely affirm. The
spirit is anxious than mankind should be convinced that spirit
power is a reality. In vain has it brought flowers, fruit,
animals, butterflies, snow, and ice, through closed and locked
doors into heated rooms,—the bulk of mankind remains as the
deaf adder. Here was a’ host of independent witnesses, of
most unimpeachable character. Mr. Morris, of Manchester,
brought me a letter from our particular friend, Mr. Charles
Blackburn, requesting that he might he present at a stance,
and to treat him as we would himself. After a little chat, I
said, “ Morris, what on earth can make you, a young man, and
a man of business, bother your head about Spiritualism ? For
elderly people, or those who have nothing to do, and are of an
enquiring mind, and don’t care a straw for Mrs. Grundy, its
all very well, but you !! ” He replied, “ I did not seek it,
but an event happened in my family of so extraordinary a
nature, that I talked it over with Mr. Blackburn, and deter¬
mined to investigate it.”
Now, Mr. Edmiston is in the india-rubber trade, and to
see the pleasant villa he has built for himself at Beckenham,
and the grounds attached to it, it is evidently a very nice,
comfortable trade, far superior to Overend Gurney specu¬
lations ; and I believe Mr. Edmiston would take the failure of
the Bank of England, and the ruin of half the Stock
Exchange, as coolly as I took my event; and as for Mrs.
Edmiston, she is as amiable and comfortable a woman as a
man conld wish for, for a mother, if he had to be born again.
She did not go from the pure air of their villa to the murky
atmosphere of Lamb’s Conduit-street to countenance, witness,
or assist an imposition.
Mr. Edwards is a man ranking among the literati of the
country, besides being an intelligent man of business. He
would not go to Lamb’s Conduit-stroet, to sit in a close room,
if there were not some reason more than ordinarily attractive.
Mr. Harrison is a writer of leading articles for scientific
newspapers, whose business as a reporter of scientific meetings
gives him the habit of observing that all the requisite condi¬
tions to make his reports reliable, are complied with.
The other parties at the seance I am not acquainted with,
but believe them to be equally respectable.
Under these circumstances, you may safely conclude that
there are spirit powers separate from, but connected with the
human race, sharing our happiness or misery. Kind and
affectionate when treated with respect and attention.
Powerful, to any extent, when conditions easily definable,
allow them to be so.
Unobtrusive when neglected.
Influencing and guiding mankind, “unseen and unfelt,’*
but too happy to be recognised and treated as friends.
Its odd that the shopkeepers of science in this conceited
island should run away to Spain and Africa to watch an
eclipse, should tabulate the component elements of the stars,
should separate all the elements, should face Africa’s burning
sun to find her central lakes, should find the causes of
disease, and study out how the human race can be mentally
improved; and yet here is a subject they dare not touch!
Great art thou, Archbishop Grundy! Before thee science
bows her head, and dares not attempt to unlock the chambers
which, like Bluebeard, thou forbiddest her to enter.
Do not suppose (Messrs. Editors) that I lay at your door
196
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1871.
any of the flippancy or impertinence of the Telegraph article.
No ; you are good, sensible fellows; next to Mephistophiles,
give me as a companion an editor. He is an intellectual
looking-glass, whose function is to flatter the opinion of the
day. Your readers wrote the articles. Tracing effects to
causes, it is not the crinoline makers who make those mon¬
strosities, nor is it the chignon makers who make those nests
of dirt and headache, it is the women who buy them.
Through the self-sufficiency and red-tapeism of a minister,
and the narrow intellect of the highest legal advisers, the
Alaba/rm got loose. How delighted we were with Semmes,
and the burning of the American ships. How freights rose.
Ships advanced 25 per cent, in value. We were all right!
Didn’t the lavy lords say so ? And so we should have been if
we tad had a weak power to deal with. We should have
brazened it out,' arid got off with the plunder and profit. But
Brother Jonathan was not to be done with either bluster or
sophism, and we have to eat a very large leek 1
Does our self-conceit suffer ? Not a bit. Our noble editors
expatiate ou “ the innate love of justice of John Bull,” and
gild the pill he is obliged to swallow.
If it had not been for Cobden, who knitted the nations
together by the , treaty of commerce, perhaps Louis Napoleon,
when he looked over his cards, might have said, “ There is no
real, reason to go to war, but the French must have a war.
Prussia is an ugly customer, but with England I run’no risk;
50,000 men and 200,000 stand of arms landed in Ireland would
be no risk, and I could annex Belgium, and make Mr. Bull
pay all expenses.”
Luckily for Mr. Bull the Prussians have fought his battle
for the present, but the eyes of the aristocratic and monied
classes' are opened, hence army reform, that Augean stable,
has to be cleaned, and what a trouble to get it done. Why?
Tested interests in wrong-doing, all-powerful in the Lords
arid a drag iri the Commons. Here again our noble editors
satisfy John Bull. It is true and evident that the umbrellas
furnished by the Umbrella Company are good for nothing,
arid you’d be wet to the skin in a smart shower, but you have
put up with bad umbrellas so long that they have a right to
ari: iridrimnity.
Last everiing (August 9), friend Morris looked in, and I got
him to read this, and favour me with his opinion.
“Certainly,” said he, “the Telegraph treated Mrs. Guppy
rather Coarsely; but it’s a good while ago, and the public
feeling has died away.”
“Nonsense, Morris,” I replied. “HI have just cause to
whip a man, there is no statute of limitations. ”
Then,” said he, “ the article is too long ; they won’t insert
it.”
“ Is it as long as a Tichborne day ?”
“ No.”
“ Is it as long as a Derby day ?”
| No.”
“ Then what an expose is it of the mental calibre of the
British public : to avow that two subjects of really no intrinsic
importance whatever, except as feeding a national mania for
betting, are more interesting than an event, which proves the
existence of an unseen Being, the said Being uniting power,
intelligence, and goodness.’’ Power to convey a human being
with pen and book in hand, two to three miles, piercing all
obstacles of both houses. Not that the size of the human
being was of much importance, as a whale in the water is as
light as a sprat. Besides, in all these cases a great portion of
the power (call it magnetic) is furnished by the medium.
Intelligence in knowing that at this house so many good
friends were gathered together, for we did not think even of
a seance being held by Messrs. Herne and Williams. We
went there once, long ago, at my suggestion, as I was curious
to see the nature of the manifestations; but after that Messrs.
Herne and Williams’ public stances had no interest for us,
except wishing them success in the sickening career in which
paid mediums are engaged.
Intelligence, in knowing that to prove the fact beyond a
cavil, the circumstance of her being without shoes and bonnet,
with pen and book in hand, and the ink yet wet, were the
strongest circumstantial evidence.
Why, gentlemen, if the Pope of Rome had been carried by
a spirit from the Vatican, pen and book in hand, into the
midst of a congregation of the faithful, three miles distant, his
infallibility would have been at once universally admitted—
the world would have rung with it. If the Archbishop of
Canterbury had been so favoured, a magnificent church would
have been built on the site of the humble house in Lamb’s
Conduit-street. Then, again, there was a small table, around
which ten persons jammed shoulder to shoulder, sat, so that
each by squeezing, could put his hands on the table. She, in
trance, in pitch darkness, is placed so centrically as not to
disturb the equilibrium—is supported by the spirit while in a
state of unconsciousness until the spirit dissolved the trance
spell. I have so seen her entranced a hundred times, some¬
times in the light, and a hundred times has the spirit dissolved
the trance. The first time the spirit entranced her in my
presence, it told me to wake her, and I touched her, but the
shock nearly brought on hysterics. After that I requested the
spirit always to awaken her, and since then her coming to
herself only resembles a person awakening from deep sleep,
totally unconscious of time or event. I may have been talk¬
ing with the spirit for half-an-hour; she has no idea of what
had passed, either of incident or time. The caterers of science
for the public market will say that this unsupported evidence
is not admissible by them, but to minds to whom the major
event is proved, the minor will be acceptable and believe-
able. Why that power which unites force and intelligence
should make use of such mediums to enlighten mankind,
would require longer explanations than are possible in this
letter; but there is a fact which will engage the deepest
attention of thoughtful men, namely, that every element
and every power of nature which has been discovered,
has in the present age been applied successfully to the
bodily and mental welfare and advancement of man¬
kind. Therefore it would be contrary to all precedent to
doubt that this power—immeasurably above all others which
mankind are investigating for their benefit and advancement—
contains within itself germs which, when thoroughly studied
and utilised, will, in some way, raise mankind above the even
now very low standard.
Telegraph, August 2, 1871. Ten pages for one penny.
I hope Mr. Editor you will be able to spare one page out of
ten for details respecting a lady to whom you have assisted to
give a world-wide renown. ‘ ‘ Ten pages.” Why I guess it is
as much as 300 ordinary novel pages. And then you have
given a long letter from “ Our Special Correspondent,” about
Sedan (which every one has forgotten), and another from
“Our own Special Correspondent” at Homburg, with the
doings of an Emperor and the details of gambling tables.
Could not you take me on as a Special Correspondent.
Your Special at Sedan is highly sensational on the corpses of
the men who fell there, and the famous manure they make for
potatoes. Will it be out of your line to be a medium for giving
Mr. and Mrs. Bull strange facts—facts to which the Arabian
Nights are tame reading—that potatoes are not all the crop
that springs from dead soldiery.
I see you “ wait respectfully ” the researches of scientific
men. Stop, my friend, let me hold a looking-glass to your
mind—not your face. A “ F.R.S. ” you are “respectful ” to.
Plain commoners, male and female, elicit only comments of
pleasantry, in which respect is not the prevalent sentiment.
But look here, there are two to find a silver or gold-mine—the
peasant who picks up a mineral, the chemist who analyses it.
Great discoveries do not take their origin in the scientific
world—they originate mostly among the working classes.
But as you profess respect for science, it just happens that
I can gratify you. An hour ago I received the following
letter.* The perusal alone will show you that it is from a
highly scientific man ; it needs no name to render it interest¬
ing in the highest degree. I ask you to publish it also ; let
your “Ten pages one penny” have quality, not quantity
only.
And if in this letter I have gone further than you think
your paragraph warranted, I beg you will take it in the
“ Pickwickian sense.”
You are entitled to the thanks of all men for having brought
the subject so prominently before them in your widely cir¬
culated journal, and if you have felt it needful to dress the
most important fact of modern times in a somewhat comic
gait—still the balance of good done is greatly in your favour.
I am, Dear Sir,
Your obedient servant.
SAMUEL GUPPY.
apt to forget when he is ‘ sitting ’ and when he is being * sat
upon.’ If he had not the clearest possible head, he would be
proving to the world that Mr. E   was competent to teach
the Zulus theology in spite of the Bishop of Cape Town, and
that he was justified in giving Dr. Colenso a large retiring
pension. What with having to quote texts in one committee-
room, and arithmetic in another, and having to explain the
law of God, the law of the land, and his own conduct alter¬
nately, it is a miracle that he does not get a softening of the
brain. Depend upon it,’ said I, turning to the Bishop, who
looked flushed and angry, ‘ that a ‘ Peculiar ’ is a snugger place
than the Woolsack.’
“ ‘ Lord Frank, permit me to say,’ broke in Lady Broadhem,
who had several times vainly endeavoured to interrupt me,
‘ that your manner of treating sacred subjects is most dis¬
respectful and irreverent, and that your allusions to an eccle¬
siastical stable, ‘ outsiders,’ and other racing slang, is in the
worst possible taste, considering the presence of the Bishop.’
“ ‘ Lady Broadhem,’ said I, sternly, ‘ when the money¬
changers were scourged out of the Temple there was no want
of reverence displayed towards the service to which it was
dedicated ; and it seems to me, that to sell ‘the Temple’
itself, whether under the name of an ‘advowson,’ a ‘living,’
or a ‘ cure of souls,’ is the very climax of irreverence, not to
use a stronger term ; and when the Lord Chancellor brings in
an Act for the purpose of facilitating this traffic in ‘ souls,’
and ‘ augmenting the benefices ’ derived from curing them, I
thirik it is high time, at the risk of giving offence to my friend
the Bishop, and to the ecclesiastical establishment generally,
to speak out. What times have we fallen upon that the
priesthood itself, once an inspiration, has become a trade ? ’ ”*
MR. LAURENCE OLIPHANT’S “PICCADILLY.”
A book entitled The Coming Race has recently found
its way into the libraries of many Spiritualists, on the
supposition that it was written by Mr. Laurence
Oliphant, who recently joined, in the United States, the
community founded by Mr. T. L. Harris, the trance-
medium. The Coming Race was not written by Mr.
Oliphant, and does not equal in quality Mr. Oliphant’s
Piccadilly In the latter book Mr. Oliphant points
out that the religion of the English people, as expressed in
daily life, may be summed up in one word, “ Money,”
and one of the pictures in the book represents the British
lion and unicorn affectionately hugging a money bag.
The following is an extract from Piccadilly :—
“ ‘ Are you going up to Convocation ? ’ said Dickiefield to
the Bishop, to divert attention from Chundango’s last barefaced
assertion. ‘ I hear they are going to take some further action
about the judgment on the Essays and Reviews.’
“ ‘Yes,’ said Joseph ; ‘ and I see there is a chance of three
new sees being created. I should like to talk over the matter
with you. Considering how seriously my health has suffered
in the tropics, and how religiously I have adhered to my
Liberal opinions in politics, even in the most trying climates,
it might be worth while ’
“‘Excuse me for interrupting you, my dear lord,’ said
Dickiefield, ’ but the present Government are not so particular
about the political as the theological views of their bishops.
When you remember that the Prime Minister of this country
is held morally accountable for the orthodoxy of its religious
tenets, you must at once perceive how essential it is, not only
that he should be profoundly versed in points of Scriptural
doctrine himself, but that he should never appoint a bishop of
whose soundness he is not from personal knowledge thoroughly
satisfied.’
‘“I have no objection to talk over the more disputed points
with him,’ said the Bishop. ‘ When do you think he could
spare a moment ? ’
“ ‘ The best plan would be,’ replied Dickiefield, with a
twinkle in his eye, ‘ to catch him in the lobby of the House
some evening when there is nothing particular going on.
What books of reference would you require ? ’
The Bishop named one, when I interrupted him, for I felt
Dickiefield had not put the case fairly as regarded the First
Minister of the Crown.
“ ‘ It is not the Premier’s fault at all,’ said I; ‘ he may be
the most liberal theologian possible, but he has nothing to do
with doctrine ; that lies in the Chancellor’s department. As
the supreme arbiter in points of religious belief, and as the
largest dispenser of spiritual patronage in the kingdom, it is
evident that the qualifications for a Lord Chancellor should be
not so much his knowledge of law, as his unblemished moral
character and incapacity for perpetrating jobs. He is, in
fact, the principal veterinary surgeon of the ecclesiastical
stable, and any man in orders that he 4 warrants sound’ cannot
be objected to on the score of orthodoxy. The Prime Minister
is just in the same position as the head of any other depart¬
ment,—whoever passes the competitive examination he is
bound to accept, but may use his own discretion as to promo¬
tion, and, of course, sticks to the traditions of the service.
The fact is, if you go into the Colonial Episcopal line you get
over the heads of a lot of men who are steadily plodding on
for home promotion, and, of course, they don’t think it fair
for an outsider to come back again, and cut them out of a
palace and the patronage attached to it on the strength of
having been a missionary bishop. It is just the same in the
Foreign Office,—if you go out of Europe you get out of the
regular line. However, we shall have the judgment on the
Colenso case before long, and,'from the little I know of the
question, it is possible you may find that you are not legally
a bishop at all. In that case you will have what is far better
than any interest—a grievance. You can say that you were
tempted to give up a good living to go to the heathen on false
pretences, and they’ll have to make it up to you. You could
not do better than apply for one of the appointments attached
to some cathedrals, called ‘ Peculiars.’ I believe that they are
very comfortable and independent. If you will allow me, I
will write to my solicitor about one? Lawyers are the men to
manage these matters, as they are all in with each other, and
every bishop has one attached to him.’
“ ‘ Thank you, my lord—my observation was addressed to
Lord Dickiefield,’ said the Bishop, very stiffly ; for there was
an absence? of that deference in my tone to which those who
love the uppermost seats in the synagogues are accustomed,
but which I reserve for some poor labourers who will never be
heard of in this world.
“ ‘ Talking of committees,’ I went on, 4 how confused the
Lord Chancellor must be between them all. He must be very
* The letter will be published in our next,
f London: Blackwood and Sons.'
Some good proofs of spirit identity have recently been
given through the mediumship of Mr. E. Bird, 98, Lothian-
road, Brixton.
Ox Thursday, October 5th, Mr. C. W. Pearce will lecture
on “ The Uses of Spiritualism ” to the Dalston Society of
Enquirers into Spiritualism. Arrangements have not been
made to admit the public.
A cokkesboxdext who has read some parts of the proof
sheets of Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s forthcoming work, entitled.
The Debateable Land between this) World and the Next, informs
us that it is likely to be published simultaneously in America
and England in the ensuing month, and that it is certain to
create a great sensation. One chapter will contain an authentic
account of the marvellous experiences of Mr. Livermore, the
banker, through Miss Fox’s mediumship, which were first
published in the Spiritual Magazine some years ago, commu¬
nicated by Mr. B. Coleman, who, obtained the facts in America
from Mr. Livermore and Miss Fox.
Mbs. Hakdixge axd Mb. Peebles.—Mr. J. M. Peebles
left Liverpool for America by the “ White Star Line ” steamer
Atlantic on the 24th of last month. He visited us, not to
lecture, but to gather contributions for the next “ Year-Book
of Spiritualism,” to arrange for the publication of a second
and larger edition of his book Jesus—Myth, Man, or God.
and to make arrangements for the re-publication of Godfrey
Higgins’s Anacalypsis. He has engagements to lecture during
the winter months in New Orleans, Mobile, and Washington.
Mrs. Emma Hardin ge, who did so much good, hard work in
England during the last twelve months, arrived safely with
her mother, Mrs. Floyd, in the United States, about three
weeks ago. At present the Spiritual movement in England is
too small to offer much encouragement to good lecturers like
Mrs. Hardinge and Mr. Peebles, but after the lapse of a year
or two, it will not be such hard up-hill work for them here, as
it has hitherto been. When they come again we shall
doubtless give them a warmer and better welcome.
Mb. J. H. Powell.—Mr. J. H. Powell, who was known,
some years ago in England in connection with the literature
of Spiritualism, has recently returned to London from
America, in a very enfeebled state of health. He wishes for
subscriptions to aid him in publishing a book entitled, The
Englishman in America, a record of four years travel in the
United States. He has been among the Shakers, the Mor¬
mons, the “ Divine Respirators,” the Free Lovers, the Perfec¬
tionists, and other strange American communities, and he says
of his manuscript work, “ It possesses all the charms of fiction,
whilst it but details fact. I claim to have wielded a fearless
and faithful pen, governed by the desire to do full justice to
my themes. I am unable, unaided, to issue the work, sub¬
scribers therefore will confer on me a benefit, and I trust, at
the same time, secure a work that will serve in some measure
the cause of truth.” Mr. Powell’s address is 4, Crescent-
place, Burton-crescent, W.C., and he is the English correspon¬
dent of The Banner of Light (Boston, U. S.).
Phbenology.—The investigators of Spiritualism soon
gain the knowledge that mesmerism is true, and receive also
not a little information tending to prove that there is some
truth in phrenology; at all events many of the spirits teach
that phrenology is true. Professor Humphry, M.D., F.R.S.,
of Cambridge, in the course of one of his lectures at the Royal
Institution, said that the shape of the skull very fairly repre¬
sents the shape of the .surface of the brain beneath it, so
objections cannot be brought against phrenology on the score
of error on this point. He added that “phrenology must be
fought, and ought to be fought, on other grounds,” but did
not state what those grounds were, to the disappointment of
some of his hearers, who wanted information. We have been
present at some discussions on phrenology at the Anthropo¬
logical Institute ; it was evident that phrenology was a
tabooed subject at the institute, and that the members were
governed by their feelings rather than by facts ; the advocates
of phrenology at the meetings of the institute were not men
of such ability as some of their opponents, and for all these
reasons put together impartial listeners could not get data
from which to draw conclusions as to the truth or error of
phrenology. One of the speakers there said that the shape of
the skull did mo? represent the shape of the brain beneath,,
thereby flatly contradicting, in a matter of fact, and not a
matter of opinion, the statement of a clever anatomist at the
Royal Institution. These thoughts were called forth by a
book on phrenology, written by Mr. Nicholas Morgan, which
has just been forwarded to us by Messrs. Longmans, the pub¬
lishers. The book is well and clearly written, very useful as
a guide book to those who, like ourselves, know nothing of
the subject, but are disposed, to think it is true because it is-
tabooed by persons who are introducing unwritten creeds and
dogmas into science. Mr. Morgan’s book contains a great
many engravings, some of them not of the best quality, other¬
wise it is handsomely got up; it is a very readable book, sure
to be of considerable interest to those who wish to gain infor¬
mation about every branch of phrenology.
* “ ‘Let the Church,’ says the Times, in a recent leading article, ‘increase
the number of her good things, and her ranks will he largely and worthily'
filled up.’ ”—L. O.
Sept. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST-
197
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
The recent proclamation in a high, scientific quarter
of the existence of a force in nature hitherto unknown,
is an event which has been scarcely noticed by the
multitude, yet it is one which, in the eyes of future
generations, may perhaps appear of far higher moment
than any of those which, within the past twelvemonth,
have riveted the attention of the world.
Were the “ Psychic Force ” to take its place
ultimately as one bearing relation only to the visible
world, its recognition would still be an event certainly
of no ordinary magnitude, but the distinguished investi¬
gator to whom we owe proof of its existence does not
hesitate to avow the opinion that it may prove to be the
link connecting us with the world above—in his own
words, “ a force which can be wielded by invisible
beings who are thus enabled temporarily to manifest
themselves to us.” He has also declared that, “ assuming
there are invisible intelligent beings trying to com¬
municate with us, it is reasonable to suppose that im¬
provements can be made in this mode of telegraphy,” and-
he therefore proposes to devote himself to the work “ of
endeavouring to improve the instrumental means at this
end of the line, and of ascertaining conditions which
will render intercourse more certain.” Thousands have
no doubt for some time past held firm conviction of the
reality of communication through certain persons, with
beings in the next stage of existence, beings whom in the
absence of fitting terms, we call spiritual, because in¬
visible and impalpable to our senses under ordinary cir¬
cumstances, but until now no attempt has been steadily
made to submit the facts on which that belief is founded
to scientific tests, as a preliminary to inquiry into un¬
known laws which may lead to systematic communication
with the spirit world.
Perfumes have been wafted to us from the unseen
shore, and signals from it-many times beheld and heard,
but a misty ocean still intervenes on which unpiloted
our bark has drifted. Science has now come forward to
take the helm.
Should the great enterprise succeed, a new era would
then commence in the history of mankind. It is im¬
possible to form an exaggerated idea of the results to be
anticipated from acquisition of proof of a world beyond
the grave, from discovery of a force in the human
organisation connecting us with that world, from the
bringing of enquiry into our relations with it within
the domain of inductive science—the domain of which
the law is progress. Pained at the sight of so much
evil upon earth, and seeing increasing disunion between
science and another agent, indispensable also to pro¬
gress—religion, some minds have sought solace in the
hope that God may interfere to establish a better order
of things here below.
In an essay on “ The Plurality of "Worlds,” which
some years ago attracted much attention, a member of
the scientific world put forth this idea in the following
words:—“ It would seem that those who believe that
the establishment of man or of the germ of human
society upon the earth was an interposition of creative
power, may also readily believe that another super¬
natural interposition may take place, in order to plant
upon earth the germ of a more divine society, and to
introduce a period in which the earth shall be tenanted
by a more excellent creature than man.”
At present, however, we may hope that through a force
till now unknown and now to be developed, science will
have power not only to dissipate error, but to discover
truth touching things spiritual—to afford us the clue
out of the labyrinth in which humanity has so long
wandered, and thus earth may indeed, perhaps in time,
become paradise, not in a mode suited to ideas tending
to become obsolete, but in one harmonising with those
of the most advanced school, without interference, with¬
out break of continuity, under the law of evolution.
J. H. D.
Mb,. J. I. Mouse’s Friday evening seances have been
resumed at 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury.
We are informed that Miss Kate Fox, whose departure
from New York has been unavoidably delayed, will probably
sail on the 20th inst., and she may therefore be expected to
arrive in England at the end of the present month.
Miss Godfbey, of 161, Hampstead-road, N.W., has
been known for many years among leading Spiritualists as a
good clairvoyant in cases of disease and sickness. For the
most part her clairvoyant communications are, we are informed
by independent observers, very reliable. Her practice has been
mostly in private circles, but we thought it probable that
some of our readers might like to have her address, so publish
the same.
The Fokce oe Gbavitatioh.—At the last soiree of the
Institution of Civil Engineers, Lord Lindsay and Mr. C. F.
Yarley so arranged a fine indiarubber tube, filled with mer¬
cury, that it hung in a festoon between the poles of Lord
Lindsay’s large electro-magnet. When a current of electricity
was sent round the latter, the indiarubber tube, with its mer¬
cury, rose up in the air, and curved in the opposite direction,
just like the arch of a bridge. A current of electricity was
passed through the mercury all the time. Mr. Yarley writes
to us :—“ What suspends the mercury in space ? The mag¬
netism has no action upon the mercury, but has upon the
electric current, therefore the tube must be suspended by the
electric current, and the electric current suspended by the
powerful magnetic rays. In other words, a heavy material
object (mercury) is supported upon an imponderable electri¬
city which, in its turn, is supported by an imponderable
magnetism. ”
THE WILL.
Me. William White, in the last number of the
Spiritualist, has given such a clear, definite, and I think
true and graphic account of human nature, that I
venture to offer a few remarks in further elucidation of
that all-important question. In regard to the will, he
says, “ The will is manifested in the understanding,
and according to the development and range of the
understanding, is the will capable of efficient action;
indeed, the will has been defined as a substance, whereof
the understanding is the form.” And again, “ The
understanding is the council-chamber and arsenal of
the will, and according to its capacity and resources
does the will compass its ends, whatever they may
be.”
In my letters to Miss Martineau, page 94,1 have said
that the mind is a true republic, and the will the pre¬
sident and executive power, chosen by the people. The
will which determines is itself determined, &c. That
is in deliberation or by the force of the controlling
circumstances—whence the human mind is democratic
as well as the knowledge which guides it. But we must
not forget Sir W. Hamilton’s remark that—“ What we
are conscious of is constructed out of what we are not
conscious of.” So that the efficient force in the “ sub¬
stance ” of the will is one thing, and its mental accom¬
paniment in the phenomena of the consciousness is
quite another matter, which must not be either separate
or confounded with it. That all the power is in the
unconscious element of which the conscious element is
the mere sense, is not in itself a power at all; such is
the clear analysis of the fact, and the consequences are
very important, and more particularly in a consideration
of the nature of the Spiritual phenomena, and whether
by the agency of spirits or not, as a very little reflection
will show. Henby G. Atkinson.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
In Cassell’s Magazine, to be published to-morrow, there
will be an article entitled, “ Wings or no Wings,” calling
serious attention to Spiritual phenomena, supporting Mr.
Crookes in his philosophical work, and stating that “ scientific
men have, so far, disgracefully shelved the question.’’
Miss Houghton’s exhibition of spirit drawings closes in
a week, and we regret to hear that she who is such a good
and true friend of the movement, has been a financial loser
by bringing them before the public. The beauty of colouring
and of form in these drawings is remarkable, but the catalogue
does not clearly explain either their meaning or their use.
Pebhaps the societies which, as recorded on another page,
have been in communication with Professor Allen Thomson,
might not do amiss to take Professor Stokes, secretary to the
Royal Society, in hand. Some of the principles laid down in
his report on Mr. Crookes’s paper, and some of his utterances
therein, are indefensible, and if carried out in all cases would
manifestly bring the British Association into deep disgrace.
Mb. Gladstone, in a recent political speech, spoke of the
greater truthfulness of the provincial than the London daily
newspapers. Spiritualists have abundant evidence of this.
The London local papers and country newspapers are, as a
rule, far more truthful in the matter of Spiritualism, and seem
to be less swayed in all respects by private coteries and clubs,
and like improper influences. A new daily journal, which
would tell the truth on vital subjects, such as the wholesale
pauperism and starvation caused by the land laws—subjects
which the present daily papers are not honest and independent
enough to handle—would probably pay, if got up to sell among
educated people.
The Relationship between Mind and Body. —
We all say the hand feels; the eye sees; the ear hears ;
and have never stopped to think that all these expressions are
quite unphilosophical. The hand no more feels than the probe
which the surgeon holds in it. The eye no more sees than
does a telescope. The ear no more hears than an ear-trumpet.
Those organs are merely instruments for receiving and modi¬
fying impressions coming to them fromsurroundingjobjects. ..
In the brain, then, we find the real seat of the senses. _ It is
there, and not in the extremities of the nerves, not in the
organs of sense, that the mind takes cognisance of external
things. These conditions of the brain usually resulting from
impressions conveyed to it from external objects, may exist
without such objects being present, as in dreams, and in some
diseases.—Canon Calloway.
A Mesmebic Association.—A Mesmeric Association has
just been formed, for the purpose of disseminating knowledge
among the general public as to the curative powers of mes¬
merism. The Association intends to give public lectures on
the subject, to institute classes, and to do its best in every
way to make known the value of mesmerism, as an inexpen¬
sive and valuable domestic remedial agency in cases of sick¬
ness. Mr. J. W. Jackson, who by public lecturing has dis¬
seminated so much knowledge in Scotland and Wales about
mesmerism, is one of the prime movers in the matter. Mr. J.
Ashman, of Kilburn, is one of the members of the committee
of the Association ; he is a healing medium, and some very
remarkable instantaneous cures have been effected by him ;
the cases are well authenticated, and several of them are
known to the President and Secretary of the Kilbum society
of Spiritualists. Mr. Ashman aided Dr. Newton very much
when he was in London, and has received a portion of the
same healing power, much in excess of that exerted by an
ordinary mesmerist. Nothing, however, about Spiritualism or
mediumship appears in the prospectus of the Association, in
order, doubtless, that the work may not be impeded by popular
prejudices. To carry out their beneficent purposes, the mem¬
bers of the Association wish for subscriptions from the friends
of mesmerism. The members of the committee are Messrs.
J. W. Jackson, M.A.L, Marylebone-road, N.W.; Joseph Ash¬
man, 7, Cambridge-road, Kilbum, N.W.; G. P. Allan, 6,
Leman-street, E.C.; 0. 0. Groom Napier, F.G.S., 20, Mary-
land-road, N.W.; J. Barber, 13, Bowling-green-lane, E.C.; J.
J. Andrews, 112, St. Paul’s-road, Camden-town ; L. Mylne,
34, Oakley-road, Essex-road; W. Mannion, 403, Liverpool-
road, N. ; W. Towns, 32, Lloyds-row, St. John-street-road,
Clerkenwell; T. Reeves, 8, Sutherland-terrace, Pimlico, S.W.;
and F. Everitt (treasurer), 26, Penton-street, Pentonville, N.
MRS. GUPPY’S MEDIUMSHIP.
About three weeks ago a spirit circle was held at the house
ofMr. W. J. Champernowne, brewer, Kingston-on-Thames ;
Mr. H. E. Russell, of the Kingston Post-office, and several
ladies and gentlemen were present; Messrs. Herne and Wil¬
liams were the mediums. Five common little shells were
taken away by the spirit Katie King, at the seance, and infor¬
mation was given that they would be taken to Mrs. Guppy.
Mrs. Guppy was, at that time, at Ostend.
On her return from Ostend, Mr. Guppy, who had seen a re¬
port in rlhe Medium that the shells had been taken as stated,
asked her whether she had received them. She said that
“ she had some shells and a lady’s red velvet hair band in one
of her boxes ; she had found them on her dressing-table one
evening, and thought that the woman of the house had put
them there for her little boy Tommy to play with, along with
his other things.” Mr. Guppy wrote to Mr. Russell to say
some shells had been found, also a red band not mentioned in
the published report. Mr. RusseU came to town, and iden¬
tified the shells, also the band, as articles taken away at the
seance at Kingston-on-Thames.
The spirits have been very busy of late, as our past pages
show, in carrying articles between different houses in different
parts of London, but this is the longest distance to which they
are known to have carried anything, except that recently at
one of Mrs. Guppy’s seanees, some beads, a crucifix, and other
things were brought, which the spirits said they had carried
from Smyrna.
The following letter from Mr. Guppy contains the leading
particulars of another interesting seance :—
“Wednesday, September 13,1871.
“ Sib,—Three weeks ago a lady made me a present of a
tame hawk, a kestrel. It had one wing clipped, and had
a small chain to one leg—could fly a little.
“ On Saturday last, I, wife, child, and nurse went on a visit
to Mr. S., Central-hill, Upper Norwood. We went by the
12.50 p.m. train.
“We left at home Mrs. Parker, a relative, and Rosa, the
servant. I requested Mrs. Parker to feed my hawk, which
had its perch on a photographic head-rest in my room, but
was not fastened to it, as it was tame, and would let itself be
handled.
“ That evening, at about 9.30 p.m., at a seance at Mr. S.’s,"
the company began proposing that each should ask the spirits
for something. Mr. Coleman said, ‘ I wish Mrs. Guppy’s
hawk to be brought.’ In a minute the hawk, dead, without
its chain, was brought. The spirit said that the hawk had
fled away at 9 o’clock, and that a cat had killed it.
“ On Sunday morning, at Mr. S.’s, my wife was dressing ; I
was not up; something dropped on the bed; it was the hawk’s
chain. On Sunday afternoon, at 5, we returned home per
train. I said to Mrs. Guppy, ‘ Don’t let us say anything about
the hawk, but hear what they have to tell.’ As soon as we
entered our house, Mrs. Parker said, ‘ Oh, Mr. Guppy, we are
in such trouble about the hawk. I went to feed it and it flew
out of the window.’ I went into the garden and saw a black
cat and flung a trowel at it.’ Mrs. Parker afterwards stated
‘ It was when the cuckoo-clock struck nine.’
I Samuel Guppy.”
The Edinburgh Daily Review of Aug. 28th, published
an ingenious criticism of Lord Lindsay’s recent article in The
Spiritualist.
In the next (October) number of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, Mr. Crookes will publish some more of his valuable
experiments in connection with Spiritualism.
The report of the Committee of the Dialectical Society
on Spiritualism, will be published a little before the end of
October.
Thebe is very little doubt that a Psychological Society
will be formed to experimentally investigate Spiritualism. If
Mr. Coleman could resume the meetings in the Beethoven
Rooms, which last season brought forth such valuable con¬
tributions to the literature of Spiritualism, good work will be
done during the coming winter.
The Mediumship op Andbew Jackson Davis.—The
works of Andrew Jackson Davis will always be of the greatest
value and interest to all Spiritualists, and for the moral and
social reforms they advocate, are of great practical use in the
world at the present time. Many of these works were given
through his organism while he was in the abnormal state
known as the trance, and were written down by clerks in the
presence of witnesses. Clairvoyance is known to be some¬
times reliable, and sometimes unreliable, and the clairvoyance
of Andrew Jackson Davis is no exception to the rule ; it is to
be hoped that in time the causes of the occasional unreli¬
ability of clairvoyance may be found out and removed. The
reliability of many of the scientific and astronomical revela¬
tions given through Andrew Jackson Davis’s mediumship is
very questionable, and if reliable in some cases, the revelations
are generally so vague and hazy as to be of little practical
value. Any errors in his works, or in the claims made for his
clairvoyance by over sanguine friends, be himself does not
wish to see perpetuated,' therefore we select one special case,
and bring the broad light of hard facts to bear upon it. A
Mr. Lomas has been writing in Human Nature, and several
American platform orators have stated, that Andrew Jackson
Davis by clairvoyance discovered Neptune before it was seen
by astronomers. In March, 1846, Andrew Jackson Davis, in
the trance state, said that there was an eighth planet, but did
not give its diameter, or state where to find it. The existence'
of the planet was not demonstrated by Leverrier till June,
-1846, and it was first seen in September, 1846. But for very
many years before 1846 its existence had been suspected,
therefore the assertion of Andrew Jackson Davis only sup¬
ported existing public opinion, and mathematics and the
telescope outdid clairvoyance in giving exact knowledge.
Andrew Jackson Davis further revealed that the said
planet had “ the density of water.” Taking the density
of the earth as 100, that of water is 18^) and that of
Neptune .17, but Andrew Jackson Davis makes the
density of Neptune 14J; he is therefore out in his reckon¬
ing in the proportion of 14| to 17. That this and other
messages given through his lips were genuine trance commu¬
nications we know, but this “ eighth planet revelation ” is
not worth bringing under the notice of the public in a leading
or any other article, since the outside world, who knowjnothing
of trance mediumship, will conclude that the announcement
consists of one guess which anybody could have made very
safely, and of a second guess which flies wide of the mark.
His other statements about Neptune cannot be tested. He
said that Neptune has six satellites. As yet only one has
been seen.- Can any practical astronomer inform us what are
the limits of possible error, in determining the density of
Neptune ? At times the clairvoyant revelations of Andrew
Jackson Davis were very accurate, and deeply interesting.
198
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15,1871.
THREE WORDS OP ERROR.
Three errors there are, that for ever are found
On the lips of the good, on the lips of the best,
But empty their meaning, and hollow their sound,
And slight is the comfort they bring to the breast.
The fruits of existence escape from the clasp
Of the seeker who tries but these shadows to grasp.
So long as man dreams of some age in f Ais-life
When the Right and the Good will all evil subdue;
For the Right and the Good lead us ever to strife,
And wherever they lead us the Fiend will pursue.
And (till from earth borne, and stifled at length)
The earth that he touches still gifts him with strength.
So long as man fancies that Fortune will live
Like a bride and her lover, united with Worth;
For her favours, alas ! to the mean she will give,
And Virtue possesses no title to earth.
That Foreigner wanders to regions afar,
Where the lands of her birthright immortally are.
So long as Man dreams that, to mortals a gift,
The Truth in her fulness of splendour will shine;
The veil of the goddess no earth-born may lift,
And all we can learn is—to guess and divine.
Dost thou seek in a Dogma to prison her form ?
The Spirit flies forth on the wings of the storm.
O Noble Soul! fly from delusions like these,
More heavenly belief be it thine to adore;
Where the Ear never hearkens, the Eye never sees,
Meet the rivers of Beauty and truth evermore.
Not without thee the streams—there the Dull seek them—No
Look within thee—behold both the fount and the flow.
Schiller.
EXETER HALL.
If you’d furnish your fancies with stories of niggers,
Of floggings and fetters, musquitoes, and jiggers:
Of Mumbo and Jumbo by preaching struck drumb,
Of the wonders of tracts, and the woes of new rum;
Of cannibal monarchs with five hundred wives
Whom they bake in hot pies every day of there lives—
Go to Exeter Hall.
aromsponaence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE SPIRITS IN CORNWALL.
Sir,—In July last my wife and I, with our good friends
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, were sitting at supper, quietly talking
over the plans of a new house I am now building, when a
succession of raps came upon the table and floor all around
us. My sister Sophia, who has been in the spirit land for
more than thirty years, and is now constantly with our loved
little group of spirit children “ beyond the river ” intimated
they had a message for us. Through raps we were mystified,
as the following message slowly developed itself: “ Many of
us wish you to go to the world’s end.” What could it mean ?
After conning it over, I suddenly said, ‘ I Perhaps they mean
the Land’s End, and that I am to go with Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt to Penzance 1” Very decided raps intimated this to
be the wish of our little ones, whose mundane geography was
defective; and so it was I decided to join a small party of
eight, and start with them on Saturday, August 5th, for
Cornwall.
I was first at the Great Western Station. Our party of
eight was quickly seated, and our spirit friends began rapping
in glee all over our compartment, and upon the boxes therein.
It was a most enjoyable journey through the greenery of
Devon; and when shut up in the tunnels, no less refreshing
to have wafts of perfume from Mrs. Everitt’s guardian spirit
—Annie Blower—who thus intimated her presence, as well as
by a few flitting spirit lights which opportunity enabled her
to give—no lamp being lighted in the carriage until darkness
closed in.
In the middle of the night (1 A.M.) we arrived at Penzance,
where, not finding room for all at the “ Railway Hotel,” we
separated, arranging to meet and decide the lodging question
next morning. Our spirit guides afterwards took credit for hav¬
ing led us past small lodging-houses where we had feared a
separation would be necessary, and for guiding us by impres¬
sions a mile out of the town to a village (Newlyn), where a
succession of small fishing houses seemed to say, “ There’s
no house for eight lodgers here, although three married
couples in some measure solve the difficulty but there was
a fine old-fashioned house, and a model landlady and her two
daughters, ready not only to take us in, but to make us feel
at home, so there we abode two whole weeks.
On Monday evening, August 7th, we arranged to have a
seance, and at this first sitting, conversation by raps was
carried on with facility, and scents, with deliciously cool
breezes on that sultry evening were rich and profuse. We
were directed to read from Acts ii., and from Rev. i., and Mr.
Pearce to pray. While sitting by candle-light a small stone
was pitched lightly upon the table and on to the sofa—door
and window being closed, and the latter darkened by a thick
travelling shawl. Mr. P. (another friend) picked it up, when
Mr. Pearce informed us that he had one or two thrown at him
when sitting on the beach with Mrs. Everitt. The light being
out, I sang “ Angels ever bright and fair,” during the whole
time of which I was refreshed by cool scented breezes, and at
the last note a small stone fell down, apparently from the
ceiling, gently shaving my face, into my hands, which were
on the table. Soon after John Watt spoke to us. There was
a want of power, and after Mrs. Everitt had joined in the
conversation for some time, she was sent into a trance. It
was now that our good landlady had found out by the
darkened window outside that we were sitting in the dark.
She had become fidgety, and at last rushed into the room with
her bedroom candlesticks, only to increase her consternation,
for a roll of paper at once dropped from the ceiling. We
begged her to retire and close the door; and getting as calm
as possible, ourselves waited, after lighting a candle, for Mrs.
Everitt to awake. She did so in considerable trepidation, say¬
ing she was sure something wrong had happened. This was
prevented in future by teUing our landlady and her daughters
the next day something of Spiritualism. Notwithstanding
they had also a story to tell us of a coach and four which was
often heard by the villagers in the night being furiously
driven down “ Jack Lane,” a most precipitous pass near the
house, it was with astonishment, but not incredulity, they
listened to some of our own experiences.
Your space forbids my fully reporting, or in fact giving any
but a very meagre report of this sitting. I will simply add
that during one of the hymns we sang, we all heard a spirit
voice join in, which I recognised as my father’s; and it is
worth noticing that for some time, probably for half-an-hour,
Mrs. Everitt was joiningin the conversation, while John Watt's [
spirit voice was forming one of the number. On retiring
to my bedroom, I was greeted with very loud raps on the
old wooden walls, as were others of our party during the
night.
The next day a slight incident occurred, which I dotted
down as worthy of note in my diary. At a little place called
Mousehole, we were descending some dangerous rocks to get
into a celebrated cave, and Mrs. Everitt fairly gave in from
fear ; she sat down and determined to wait for the party.
Annie Blower made herself visible, and told her to “ go on, it
would be all right.” Mr. Pearce, who is sensitive to spiritual
influence, at the same time said, “Annie’s here.” “I know
she is,” replied Mrs. Everitt, “ and she tells me to go on ! ”
She did so without further fear or mishap.
Next day we took a boat across the bay to visit St. Michael’s
Mount. Enquiring of the two boatmen if they had heard
anything of Spiritualism, they had a ghost story which they
knew to be true. In Penzance lately a cuckoo clock which
had not struck for many years, in the middle of the night
began striking, and a spirit appeared of a relation who had
just then departed; the clock continued to strike through the
night, but it has not done so since. That evening, at tea-time,
I remarked to Mrs. Everitt how very tight one of her rings
was, and thought it would injure her finger, if not cut off.
But it had been placed there years ago by the spirits, and
hence she objected to interfere with it. The next morning at
breakfast she reported that the ring was gone. Search was
made everywhere for it, but in vain. Although rather fidgety,
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt felt sure it would not be lost. The next
morning, while dressing, half of the ring was found by Mr.
Everitt on his table, and at the same moment the other half
was placed in Mrs. Everitt’s hand as it was in the act of
taking up her hairbrush. We were informed at our next sit¬
ting that Mrs. Everitt had herself accidentally broken it in the
basin while washing, and Annie Blower (her guardian) had
taken care of the pieces, and brought them back on the
second day.
At a short sitting on Sunday evening, Aug. 13, we were
directed to read Genesis xvii., first few verses, Rev. i., and
part of Acts ii., but all being fatigued, we were directed soon
to retire for the night, first having been told to repair the ring,
and then they would take it away again for a time.
Monday, Aug. 14.—We had all been in a steamer to Kynance
Cove, joining an excursion hastily arranged. I was writing
home a full account of our pleasant trip, during the writing of
which I had several showers of scent, and the delicious cool
breeze Spiritualists so well know. We were about retiring for
the night, when raps came upon the table, around which we
then arranged ourselves, and had continuous conversation by
raps until past midnight, with the spirit friends of each
present. |I must here refer to a conversation one of our friends
had had with the engineer on board the steamer in which we
had been during the day. While talking on general matters
the vessel passed a co.ve, which- caused the engineer to tell of
a remarkable dream in connection with it, to the effect that a
man in a dream was assured he would find several Spanish
doubloons in a particular part of that bay, and on going there
found twenty or thirty. This led the engineer further to tell
of his own experience “last night.” He said he couldn’t
account for it, but he had no idea the steamer would be going
out at all that day when he went to bed ; but he dreamt of
this excursion, and that he would be the engineer wanted.
Again and again the dream came, and it appeared he was a
very careful man, priding himself on his engine, and so strong
became this impression, that at three o’clock he got up, came
down to the boat, saw that the machinery was all in order,
and on going home was sent for to attend to this excursion.
It was interesting to us, this dream, and the fact of its being
told unsolicited to one of our party. We therefore asked the
spirits about it. Annie said she knew of the dream, and it
was John Watt who had sent a messenger to the engineer, and
caused everything to take place as it had been narrated.
“ How did he find out the engineer ? ” “ By his guardian
spirit.”
Then came a succession of totally different raps—tiny ones
—and Mrs. Everitt saw my sister Sophia over me. I asked if
the little ones were present, and was saluted by a complete
volley, followed by family chat, in which I had later news
from Hendon than could be brought by post! (Subsequently
confirmed.) Several very different raps succeeded from
various spirit friends, and then a muffled rap. It came from
a spirit unknown to any of us, but he wished to communicate.
Repeating the alphabet, we with some difficulty received the
sentence—
“Pray for me.”
“Then you are not happy ? ” “No.”
“ Will prayer do you any good ?” “ Yes” (very decidedly).
“You wish you had led a different life on earth? ” “ Yes.”
“You wish us to pray for you to be led out of your present state?”
“Yes.”*
After several such questions we all silently prayed and
asked him to come again to say how he was advancing. We
asked him if he would give his name, to which a very decided
“ No ” came.
I am compelled to omit very much more of interest at this
sitting all held in full light.
Tuesday morning at breakfast time raps came and directed
us to read the twenty-third psalm, and during our conversa¬
tion afterwards upon it, raps of approval or disapproval to all
we advanced were continued.
That day we went to Land’s End. Sitting at the extreme
end of the headland were Mr. and Mrs. Everitt and myself,
note-book in hand, as Mrs. Everitt took up two pieces of the
granite rock to see if she could obtain any psychometric
vision. For a few moments she appeared lost, then spoke
slowly as follows :—
“ It’s all misty. Now it’s clearing, and I see a vast space
and all tops of trees ; they are so thick and regular. I can¬
not see below them, they are so thickly growing together, and
I am above them. The tops shake like a corn-field waving
in the breeze. There! Now I can see lower down, to the
branches underneath. Oh l such an immense extent of
branches of enormous length, but more like large ferns all
growing together. It is still misty lower down. There !
now I am at the bottom, and all the branches are above me
with very large leaves, oval shaped. I can see miles and
miles of forest.
“ Oh there is something moving. (Started, and was about
to throw down the rock, but we begged her to go on.) It is
very large—has an enormous head like a crocodile’s, a very
long body, but only three legs ; it’s crawling along. So nasty
* It is quite a common thing at nearly every spirit circle in England, for
unhappy spirits, miserable because of the deeds they had committed while
in the body, to come and ask to he prayed for. We know one medium who
is visited by dozens of such spirits every week. No doubt the Roman
Catholic system of offering up “ Prayers for the Dead ” had its origin at
the time when there was real spiritual power in the Church.—Ed.
(shudders), it is crawling along a moist, brown greeny soft
moss, and makes a great in dentation as it moves. Now it has
turned its head : it has great teeth, and eyes as big as saucers;
it’s body is larger round than an elephant’s, but more the
shape of a crocodile’s. Now there’s another thing coming ;
now it’s going up the trunk of a tree. The top of it’s head
is among the branches, but it’s hind legs are on the ground.
It has a round head with two short ears—large jaws and two
teeth sticking out. It is eating the branches. It has four
legs, but the two hind ones are very much the longest. It
has a very, thick skin, hard and wrinkled like a rhinoceros’
skin; but it is three or four times bigger than any we have
ever seen. The first one is going along the ground—looks at
it and gets away. Now there’s another thing coming—like a
bird, yet not a bird; it has a very long neck, an enormous beak,
and a small head. It has great wings by its side, but doesn’t
seem as if it could fly. It has such a curious motion as it
walks; brings one leg high up, then dashes it down, and
draws up the other quickly, as if it was afraid of getting wet.
It has not a webbed foot, but it has large claws—such a queer¬
looking thing, walking along as if it didn’t like the feeling.
Now it has spread its wings and flown away to the ocean-
such enormous wings ! Now it’s all fading away ; it’s gone.”*
As Mrs. Everitt opened her eyes she shivered with cold,
although it was hot and sultry.
In consideration for your space I must omit two or three
days, and come to our last Saturday, August 19. On this day
we drove to Gurnard’s Head, which place we reached tired
and hungry, and at once took our hamper of provisions into
the small inn there. As soon as we had unpacked it, and had
assembled round the table, manifestations by raps came very
strongly, first on the table, then on the shutters, walls, win¬
dow, and lastly on our hamper, which was placed under the
table. After being moved about and opened by the invisibles,
it was turned over and so left. On the top of the bold head¬
land we sat together and sang, accompanied by raps on the
1 rock. Here Mrs. Everitt took up a piece of the rock, and on
placing it upon her forehead, felt it as if burning, followed
by a vision of vapour and a boiling sea; then a seething mass
was boiling up from three enormous caverns, from which
molten lava rose a great height, ran along, and was suddenly
chilled.
That evening .at home we had a very long and interesting
sitting, introduced by the usual scents and cool breezes. For
an hour or more we had an uninterrupted conversation with
John Watt, who, in reply to questions, told us “ It was right
to pray for the souls of the departed when they ashed us to
do so ; it helped them to rise.” “ But why do they not appeal
to spirits to pray for them, as they would be better acquainted
with their condition than we are ?” “ Because they cannot
so easily get into their sphere as into yours.”f
Remarking in a whisper to Mr. Everitt how natural the
conversation was, and how unlike talking to a spirit from
another world, John Watt heard and spoke of the spiritual as
the natural world. The same individuality is retained as in
earth life—the same forms of character, but without sinful
tendencies. “ If you put on another coat,” said John Watt,
your character is not altered. Death should not be feared—
it is no more than stepping from one room into another.” “ Ah,
but the loss of our loved earthly ones.” “ You do not lose
them ; they are closer to you than ever before ; your spirits
are together.” In reply to another question, he said he had
not yet seen Christ face to face, but he had looked upon “ His
glory, His majesty, and His might.” Speaking of the Trans¬
figuration he described the apostles’ state then as one in
which their eyes were opened to see what was passing in the
spirit world. As to the graves being opened at the Cruci¬
fixion and bodies of saints arising, they were not their natural
bodies, but purely spiritual manifestations.
Speaking on Christ’s resurrection he said His whole life had
been so pure that he had already in His life-time “ worked off
all the grosser parts of His nature, and His body at the cruci¬
fixion was nearly all spiritual.’’ “You have your spiri¬
tual body now, all of you,” he added. On striking a light
Mrs. Everitt was found comfortably reclining on the sofa in a
sleep.
Sunday morning, Aug. 20.—We were having a long chat at
breakfast as to the actual seeing of Christ’s body, and
whether we should be permitted to see it soon, or at any
time after death ; remembering what John Watt had said
the previous evening, raps came and directed us to read the
fourteenth chapter of St. John’s Gospel, which seemed most
appropriately to take up all points of our previous conversa¬
tion, and as it did so, raps came to emphasize certain parts
as they were read.
On this morning a rather interesting psychometric vision for
a geological mind was given us from a piece of peculiar black
rock which Mrs. Everitt placed on her forehead. “ I see a
vast extent of rocky country which I have seen before. There
are three strata. This piece I hold comes from a dark
layer between two. It has a glassy appearance, but the
water seems to penetrate it, for as it goes backwards and for¬
wards through the strata some of it is sucked up and retained.
The lower stratum is greenish ; the upper white. It seems all
rocky and water; no vegetation or life of any sort. There—
now the top stratum is moving, now it’s all water ; now that
is gone, and all is one vast tract of this spongy character,
boggy for miles and miles. I can see some land a long way off
with trees on it, and there is something moving; they are large
birds—like the one I saw fly to the ocean the other day (see
Aug. 16). There is a flock of them flying to this boggy stuff;
they have long narrow wings which take up a good deal of
room, and yet they all fly together. Now they are depositing
eggs, but the shell is not white ; it seems all soft—now the
substance is getting hard ; it has the appearance of eggs, but
it consolidates and gets quite hard. Now the birds are all
flying away again to the land. Water is washing over the
place again, and it hardens. Now it is as at first—a dark
stratum between two other strata, with white at the top.”
The next day, Monday, August 21st, we all returned home
again, and so ended a fortnight crowded with spiritual ex¬
periences of a most varied and interesting character. I would
fain have considerably added to what I have narrated with
as much brevity as possible, and, in fact, had I time, could
easily “ write a book.” I am not aware that I have an enemy
who would wish me to do so ! Morell Theobald.
Hendon, N.W., Sept. 1871.
* Clairvoyance is sometimes reliable and sometimes unreliable, tbe causes
of error being as yet unknown. Possibly, when the laws governing this
marvellous power of the human spirit are understood, it will prove a
mighty instrument in the hands of the geologist, helping him to unravel
more of the realities of past ages. Professor Denton is the only scientific
man who has tried many careful experiments as to this new aid to geologists,
and much about his researches will be found in No. 14 of The Spiritualist.
The Psychological Society should try experiments on this subject.—Ed.
f Mr. Varley, the electrician, has had similar assertions made to him,
through another medium. He has been told that the higher spirits often
cannot get into communication with very low ones, except in the presence
of a medium.—Ed.
Sept. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
199
THE EXPEDIENCES OE AH INOTXREB.
Sir,—Some twelve years since, when a resident in London,
I saw posted on a wall an announcement of a forthcoming lec¬
ture on mesmerism, at Myddelton-hall, Islington. Prompted
by curiosity, accompanied by two friends, I went to it and
took my seat near the platform, and at the conclusion of the
lecture, on the speaker asking some dozen gentlemen to take
seats on the platform, for the purpose of being experimented
on, I made one of the number. He made several mesmeric
passes close to each of our faces, desiring us to shut our eyes.
He then said imperatively, “You can’t open your eyes;”
some did, but the majority, including myself, notwithstanding
the utmost exertion, accompanied by violent contortions of
features, could not do so. The feeling was as if my eye-lids
were closed by the application of some strong adhesive glue.
After keeping me in this painful state some little time, he
relieved my fears by making a few counter-passes, and bidding
me open my eyes, which I was then able to do. Since that
time I have more readily endorsed the assertion of our immor¬
tal poet, that ‘4 There are more things in heaven and earth
than are dreamt of in our philosophy.”
Some time after this, with the same two friends, I called on
Mrs. Mary Marshall the younger, the celebrated spiritual
medium, who then lived at Hed Lion-street, Holborn. On
taking our seats round the table, a very short time elapsed
before the spirits manifested themselves by sundry oscilla¬
tions and tappings on, or under, the table. On my asking—
“ May I be permitted to look under the table ? ” I was instantly
answered by the table rising from the ground and striking me
violently on my chest, so as to nearly unseat me.
I then put a mental question, which I wished to be answered
by the spirit of my eldest son, who many years before was wrecked
on the Whitton Sands in the river Humber, in the barque
Anchor, on her passage to Goole. After a little delay, I asked
if he were present, and was answered by three knocks, as an
affirmative. I then, mentally, asked him as a test, to spell
his Christian name, by knocking. On my repeating the alpha¬
bet, the initials of his name were arrived at—his name was
Henry. The attempt to give the full name failed twice, but
the third time Henry was correctly given. After this,
musical instruments were played by an unseen hand, legs were
grasped, and other phenomena produced. When the alleged
spirits were fairly tired out, they courteously said good-night,
by tapping, that gradually diminished in intensity, as if by
increasing distance. I left Mrs. Marshall’s seance, no convert
to Spiritualism, the inaccuracy in the spelling of the name was
too insurmountable a difficulty to be overcome. It is not so
now. I treat Spiritualism as a science, believing that time
and investigation will explain its difficulties. Certain con¬
ditions must be complied with, or the results will not be
satisfactory. 1 will now relate two occurrences, out of several,
which have caused me to believe in spiritual telegraphy.
That telegraphy is governed by laws which have yet to be
discovered.
I have resided for the last three years at Birmingham, and
have but recently attended seances held at 125, Sufifolk-street.
I have witnessed many unsatisfactory manifestations, and but
few of a reliable character, but the following have been
conclusive:—
On Monday, the 5th of June last, when present at a seance,
held at Sufifolk-street, spirits manifested their presence in the
usual manner. The question was asked, “ If the communi¬
cating spirit knew any person present ? ” Three tilts (Yes).
“Was it a relation?” (Yes). “Of mine?” One rap (No).
“Of mine?” (No); and so on all round, till I asked “Of
mine?” Three tilts (Yes). “Father?” (No). “Mother?”
(No). “Wife?” (No). “Son?” Three tilts (Yes). “Will
you spell your Christian name ?” (Yes). The name 4 4 Henry ”
was spelt, without a hitch. 44 Are you happy ? ” _ (Three
tremendous plunges). “Do you in your happy spirit-land
feel an interest in the welfare of those dear to you, left
behind ? ” (Yes). 44 Will you give me more powerful physical
manifestations ? ” The table immediately plunged away from
the hands of those who sat opposite to me, and threw itself
into my arms. On a subsequent occasion, he was asked to
“ tip the table the number of times he was years old when he
met his death ? ” The table tilted fifteen times. I did not
recollect at the time whether his age was fifteen or sixteen
year’s; but at home, on referring to the Bible, I found the
table message to be correct—fifteen years. With the exception
of Mr. Collier, late editor and proprietor of a suburban London
paper, and lecturer on Spiritualism, who did not sit at the
table, the persons present were all strangers to me, and my
antecedents, to the latter of which he was likewise.
One other incident and I have done. I invited Mr. Collier
to take a friendly cup of tea with me, and my married daugh¬
ter, with whom I am living, inviting my next-door neighbours
—father, mother, and daughters, all non-spiritualists. After
tea, we sat round a large loo table, to the number of eight.
After singing a few simple ballads, accompanied by the piano,
the table began a tremulous motion, which soon culminated
in successive plunges, moving round first one way, and then
the other, and kept time to the music. Collusion in producing
these manifestations was impossible, and the table was too
large and heavy for any two persons to move it in that way
while sitting at it.
Those who ridicule the ignoble means made use of for con¬
veying spiritual communications by means of tables and chairs,
and such like things, must recollect that it is by such tangible
evidence that the most direct and forcible impressions are
made on the outward senses, so that all who have eyes to see,
and ears to hear, can bear witness to the evidence of their
senses, when a communication, couched in classical sublimity
of eloquence, would not be appreciated, or, perhaps, under¬
stood, although such messages are not wanting. The teachings
of Spiritualism are in a rudimentary state, and they will, like
all knowledge, progress. If the physical manifestations but
convince man in this materialistic—alias 44 atheistical”—age,
of the immortality of the soul,, and a life hereafter, they will
have accomplished their mission. A believer in Spiritualism
cannot fail of being a better man in consequence, and in the
true sense of the word, a better Christian.
310, Icknield-street West, Birmingham. James Judd.
Messrs. Herne and Williams, mediums, of 61, Lambs
Conduit-street, High Holborn, W.C., have begun a series of
Saturday evening seances, for Spiritualists only, commencing
at seven o’clock punctually. Admission half-a-crown. This
Saturday evening stance has, for some time, been going on
privately, and it has proved a very good plan to limit it. to
Spiritualists only, who cannot afford to have their time wasted
by those strangers who often weaken or break down the
manifestations, because they insist upon having them under
their own conditions, instead of under the conditions which
scientific experience has proved to be necessary for their
occurrence.
DR. NEWTON’S CLAIRYOYANCE.
During Dr. Newton’s stay in England, two very remarkable
proofs of his clairvoyant powers were given to me, entirely
unsought.
The first happened on the evening of May the 12th, when I
was at the public reception given to him on his arrival in
England, at the Beethoven Rooms, Harley-street, Cavendish-
square.
After the meeting was over, numbers crowded up to the
platform to shake hands with him. I went with the crowd,
and so passed my hand to him, that he could scarcely have
known exactly to which individual of those close around him
the hand could have belonged ; and even had he done so, he
would not have known me personally. My surprise then was
extreme when, as soon as he touched my hand, he kept hold of
it, and looking round, said, 4 4 Where’s Daisy ? ”
“ Daisy,” my friend was with me, and at once introduced
me to him as the one of whom she had written nearly two
years before, sending him at the same time a lock of my hair,
hoping thereby to establish a rapport between us which might
enable me to receive benefit from his great healing power.
This especial purpose was not accomplished, and happily the
need for it was removed soon after by my visit to M. Jacob,
the healer. But from the remarkable manner in which the
touch of my hand was immediately in his mind associated
with14 Daisy,” showed that in some inexplicable manner abend
of some kind had been established, which time had not
effaced.
Again, on the 16th of July, I had occasion to go to the
Progressive Library, and there quite accidentally met Dr.
Newton. As we were talking together, suddenly he fixed his
eyes upon me, and said,441 am impressed t tell you that either,
on your father or your mother’s side, you come from some
foreign stock. Your ancestors were Spiritualists. They were
very cruelly used, hunted down, imprisoned, and at length
massacred for their religion. I cannot see the exact time that
this happened, but I should say it is not quite 200 years ago.
One spirit is now standing by you in a foreign-looking loose,
white dress.’’
As far as we know, the above sketch is entirely accurate.
Our ancestors were of the old French nobility, and Huguenots.
At the revocation of the Edict of Nantes (in the year 1685, i.e.,
not quite 200 years ago), their property was confiscated, and
the whole family massacred, with the exception of an infant
in a cradle, who was saved by the humanity of a soldier, who
remarked, “ The child at least is not a Protestant.”
This child grew up, came over to England in William of
Orange’s army, and settled down as a refugee.
Five years ago I received quite unexpectedly, a long mes¬
sage by spirit writing commencing,—■“ I, Daniel M , your
ancestor, write.” In this message much of interest is told me,
and he especially speaks of the great comfort they received as
a family, by “ the visits from, and open converse with God’s
good spirits, their guardian angels.” He also tells me of the
interest he still feels in the religious struggles of the day,
although nearly two hundred years have passed since he was
killed, at the age of sixty-four.
In all probability it was this “ Daniel M ” whom Dr.
Newton saw standing by me on the above occasion.
Hendon, N.W. F. J. T.
WHAT IS A MIRACLE ?
To avoid scholastic hair-splitting, I at once state that I
consider all the creati ons, animate and inanimate, visible and
invisible, natural; yet as the astronomers use the words,
“ The sun sets,” “ The sun rises,” though it never does : so I
use the word “supernatural ” as distinctly applicable to intel¬
ligent life in a condition of body and knowledge superior,
above us as men. I care not what you call it—ghost, spirit,
angel, or devil.
As light is a threefold substance,* so is man. We are body,
soul, and spirit. When we pass away we become twofold—
soul and spirit; and when in that state, can see and do things
we cannot now.
Having thus cleared the path, we state “ a miracle to be
something done intelligently beyond our power as men.” As
a test of supernatural life and power—if I desire that any
named inanimate substance be moved without human contact
or machinery, and it is moved and raised off the ground—I
have the proof that supernatural or ethereal beings see me,
hear my words, and oblige me by consenting to do what I de¬
sired. Obviously, if the whole stopped there, the incident of
itself would be as useless as if the raps of the postman were
only something to startle and amuse us, without our taking
them as signs to open the door to see the intelligent agent
who made the noise, and receive the something of weal or of
woe he had to deliver. The rappings, therefore, of a postman
or messenger are the same in intent as the rappings of a
spirit; and if we use our common sense, we have the message
of the invisible, in as many varieties of manner as we have in
ordinary life. The voice, when in action, is mere rapping on
the air; the invisible air conveys it with its modulations to
the somebody we wish to communicate with. Putting aside
the other evidences of invisible intelligent life around us, let
us keep to voices, by means of which personal knowledge and
general is conveyed to us. The extraordinary story of Joan
of Arc has lately been dramatised, with the remarkable spirit
manifestations displayed through her, and is now being acted
at one of the theatres. When a girl, she heard voices, and
saw spirits, telling her she was appointed to assist in deliver¬
ing France from the yoke of England. Those spirits led her,
guided her as promised; and she drove the English out of
France, and placed the true king of France on the throne.
Up to that time, she never moved officially till the voices told
her; and it is narrated that when she was not on the field of
battle, the French were overcome by the bravery of the
English, but whenever Joan of Arc appeared, there seemed to
be a drowsiness and inertness in the English soldiers, and they
were defeated as the voices had promised. We have the same
method and result of the action of supernatural beings nar¬
rated in the Bible. David heard “ the voice,” saying, “ Come
upon them over against the mulberry-trees ; and when thou
hearest the sound of a going in the tops of the mulberry-trees,
then bestir thyself; for then shall the Lord go out before thee
to smite the host of the Philistines.’’
Personally I know several who are nowadays so guided, and
the fact of supernatural beings doing their appointed work for
and with man, under fixed supreme laws, explains why we
may trust that the miracles mentioned in the Jewish and the
Christian Scriptures,f the historical narratives of miracles
strewed through past ages, and the affirmations of credible
witnesses in our days, may be frankly accepted as true ; and
that all the spiritual gifts mentioned by St. Paul are still in
action.
* Light is wave-motion.—Ed. f All of them ?—Ed.
The majority of the ministers in our churches and chapels
act as the right hand of deists, because they publicly declare
that miracles have ceased since the days of the apostles—a
downright untruth. The Almighty power for man is as much
in action now, as in the apostles’ day. Angels are seen now
as then. The gift of foreseeing future events, the gift of
healing, the gift of miracles, are in existence now as then.
The every year spring and summer fruits of the Divine giving
of the supernatural in all its freshness are in our midst ; but,
Sunday after Sunday, we have doled out to us a few ounces
(verses) of the “preserved meats” manufactured about two
tuousand years ago, and are told that it is all we have to live
on till next Sunday. No wonder sixty-seven out of every
hundred of the population won’t use it, but will go elsewhere
for something that has a freshness in it.
Since I have freely and publicly spoken out some of my
knowledge as to the supernatural, I have had private family
histories narrated to me of an extraordinary kind, which
unfold facts that should cause all thinking deists and atheists
and Sunday Christians to read life from a new page.
Enmore-park, Norwood Junction. John Jones.
AMONG- THE SWEDENBORGIANS.
NUMBER THREE.
The New Jerusalem Church at Camberwell is situated in
the well known cabbage-gardens in the neighbourhood, and not
many hundred yards from the Camberwell New-road railway
station on the Ludgate-hill and Victoria line. The building
strikes the beholder as a rectangular lump, and apparently
built with a view to future enlargement. A rapidly im¬
proving neighbourhood, and an adequate appreciation of the
teachings of the New Church, may in time make such a
change desirable, and help to take off the surplus crowd
thronging Sunday after Sunday some other places of worship
in the vicinity; such, for instance, as Camden-row Church,
where the Rev. Mr. Fleming officiates.
The service at Camberwell New Jerusalem Church differs
but little from what has been described iu my former chapters
on Swedenborgian congregations. There are the same hymns
and prayerbook, the lessons from the Old and New Testa¬
ments, the altar and pulpits, the tables of Mosaic law, and
white surplices. Whatever can have given some people in
the neighbourhood an impression that this is a place of wor¬
ship principally favoured by the Jews is not clear from what
transpired there on the morning of last Sunday week. The
interior, except (in its shape, is certainly unlike that of a
synagogue from the absence of all that reminds one of
Israelitish rites and ceremonies.
The singing and accompaniment on the organ on the occa¬
sion quite deserve the reputation which they hold in the
vicinity; and, except a clock which would insist upon indicat¬
ing nine minutes to six all along, everything seemed to be
well arranged.
The Rev. E. Austin selected Rev. iii. 2nd and 3rd verses,
for the text of the morning’s sermon. He explained that by
the Church of Sardis we are specifically to understand those
people who nominally profess the principles of Christianity,
who externally pay homage and show deference to its institu¬
tions. They sink into formalism because their faith is not
joined to charity. The languor and supineness of Sardis is,
in some respects, he said, prevalent among us. In business a
man carefully watches his course; from the nature of his
mercantile transactions, and the results obtained, he judges
whether his business is increasing or not. His vigilance is
directed to the end, an end which may be one of prosperity
and ease, or one of ruin and inconvenience. It is otherw ise
with most men’s spiritual accounts. As long as they discover
within themselves no shameless or unpardonable vice, they
make themselves easy about the rest. They overlook the
importance of examining their affections and aspirations. The
common mode of railing against any system which happens to
fall short in the lives of its true followers is unworthy, and
the proof of a shallow thinker. It is true that many avowed
followers of Christian teachings are quite as exacting, tyran¬
nical, and malicious as many of those who never frequent a
place of worship, but it is equally true that Christianity cannot
and will not be eschewed on account of those who use the
name as a cloak. Swedenborg gives an account of some
ecclesiastics whose piety and devotion had, in this world, but
served them as a mask to hide the enormities of their hearts.
Death, which effects no real change in the man, leaves him in
the other life with his ruling love the same as before. The
institutions which have lived and risen with the growth of
Christianity are not to be cast aside; they are the things
referred to in the text, “ strengthen the things which remain,
that are ready to die.”
The preacher looked upon the state of a man whom nothing
can arouse as contemptible. He lauded the career of him
who, having identified himself with a certain institution,
nailed his colours to the mast, and held as his motto—44 No
surrender.”   
The report of the committee of the Dialectical Society-
on Spiritualism will be published towards the close of next
month (October).
Mr. John Jones, of Enmore Park, l\as issued, in
pamphlet form, numerous extracts from the July number of
The Spiritualist, including Lord Lindsay’s article, and the
article from the Quarterly Journal of Science (with the engrav¬
ings) by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. William Huggins,
V.P.R.S., and Mr. Serjeant Cox. The pamphlets may be had
at twopence each, of Mr. E. W. Allen, publisher, 11, Ave
Maria-lane, E.C. . Probably they may be had in large quanti¬
ties, at a cheaper rate, on application to “John Jones, Esq.,
Enmore Park, Norwood Junction, London.”
Spiritualism in Carnaryon.—On Friday last, Mr. John
Jones, of Enmore Park, London, while on a visit to Carnarvon,
delivered a lecture in the Guildhall to a large audience, on
44 God’s wonders as shown in the Natural and Supernatural.”
The lecture was listened to with intense interest, and it was
illustrated by some twenty lantern slides, projected on a large
screen. To prove the existence and power of the unseen
elements in nature controlling the seen material bodies, there
was shown on the screen the solar system in motion, the
moon’s action in producing the tides ; the sun surrounded by
rays, and the light reflected from the sea; the magnet drawing
the needle, and other effects in nature were represented.
Through one of these Mr. Jones led his audience to the effects
produced by intelligent action on the forms of nature at present
out of the reach of the powers of man. He carried his audience
with him, and brought the interest to a climax when he intro¬
duced the view of one of the English cathedrals, and from
behind the screen gently there commenced and swelled out a
song called 44 Pilgrims of the Night,” sung by the choir of
one of the town churches. A vote of thanks to Mr. Jones was
carried amid loud cheering, at the close of the lecture.
200
THE SPIRITUALIST
.Sept. 15;, ,1871.
FACTS FOB, NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
; within the ordinary range of human experi-
ence, that it is quite fight not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
‘ should witness and test them'personally, and
• * believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
• is gained that dehial is impossible.,
, EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit-
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
, late years so accumulated, as to possess very great
. weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Yafley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs.' S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
‘ strongly in favour of Mr. Home.' The following
was a portion of' the affidavit of Mr. O: Pi Varley,
G.E.,F.E.G.S.,.M.E.I.:—
“ I 'Save been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by' profession for twenty-one years,'
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
1 Company.
; “About .eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,?
. the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
. hot yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
| hem carefully, v
. :“;He immediately, gave me every facility for .the pur-
( pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way; and I have been with him on divers occasions
. when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
. and tested them with him and with others,’under con-
, ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
t been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
, it'is ^cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec-
1 tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me- ■
; chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
. that'the manifestations which I have myself examined
: were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
• physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
■> on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
- other than that of the medium and observers.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
1 trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un-
•' paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
- French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Eussia, the Grand Duke Con-
- stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
• Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
.Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
, life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual' Magazme
gave the. names of the following gentlemen .as
'those who have long been investigating the sub-
’jeci:-^
I U ' r, ■ , ’
“ Oromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken-
'ham; Alfred E. Wallace, Esq., Holly House, Bark-
/ tug;’Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.,
t'Ceptain .Drays.qn,. R.A., Woolwich; Dr. X M |Mly,
Xiio Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. X G. 'Wilkinson, 4,'
'Sk, JqTm’iuwnqrl-vtljaa. N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
Wmond-streei,' WO;: S. ’O’. Hall; Esq., IS/ Ashley^place;
t VictoriahStreet, iS-W-; Newton Crosland,'Esq..; William
j-Howitt^Esq:, The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;.
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
'D,! Jencken,. Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; X G.
'Crawford, Esq., '52,‘Gloucester-crescent, N.W.;, W. M.f
. Wilkinson, ^Esq.,' Oakfleld,' Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
, Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
dijuarfe.'” ’, .
, Mrs. De. Morgan has written a book, entitled
, From; Mattes', to Spirit (Longmans), where she j
, gives many interesting particulars, the result of
;ton years’.experience in Spiritualism. Professor ,
lie' Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
1 of Lofidon, in his preface to the book, says
, | “J am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational' being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm< under me.” .
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
'of.; the "British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr.'Alfred E. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila-
| delphia, jthe. inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular,
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to' him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to1 see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of .-his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the;f
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library,' Judge'Edmonds, of New York, is another
very.eminent. American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subj ect. Eecently,
‘in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
.error in judgment. ‘ Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
Wooden materials by invisible agency .occurred in
• tbeir 'ownlipuse.. Documentary evidence of what
. they 'witnessed'was drawn up and signed on the
.. spot,; arid is.published in Southey’s lAfe of Wesley.
Mi.‘ WJCrdokes, F-E.S., editor of the Glmrdcal-
News,' is now investigating Spiritualism, and he'
. has published an article in the Quarterly Jou'i'nal oj
: iSaenqe,'.stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though,he.does notiknow
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
. spirits,j, The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. .Varley,'was published in the Spiritualist of
'July 15th,1876:— ’
, - •• “20, Mormngtpfi-roadbLondon,N.W.
. - ' , “July J 3th, 1870.. ... ,
“Dear Mr. Varlev,—I Was vety pleased to receive
■your letter of the <9th inst., in whicfi'you discuss some
points alludpd to' in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
. by. the Light of,Mod.em Science,” , ,
- “ YdR'. l»vft'"'Been' working at the' subject for more
■. Oeors th^irT have months, and" knowing,’as you do,the1
^Stamps difficulties in'the. way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists '
themselyes—you'-will not be surprised to-flnd that l only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short'distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more,so, as I have' been working in'a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
• result. ’ .• t . , •
“ You notice that I admit .freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment- in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads,me. tp—whether, it points to a,
■mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a com
vert to, the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and im¬
penetrability, of matter; it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but father as a peculiarity in my.
scientific education.
“I have already had many letters, both from, Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken, up the subject, and urging
me to, continue the investigation. In fact; I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men;; as well as sympathy from - the good,
friends I possess amongst the ’ Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, /'very truly yours,
William .Crookes.” 1
• A work entitled The Boole of Nature, by .0 . 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
.Brougham, ’ in which that eminent statesman
says;—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is'
the Spiritualism of this work foreign topur materialistic,
manufacturing age’?—NS ;< forfamidst the vafieties'of.
mihd which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most,
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a ram-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand ; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigates the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words :—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“ First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any ■well-known LondOn banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I ’pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my .proving by evidence.
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court Of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and. inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known’chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
- Thirdly—That voices appertaining to- no- one in the'
flesh are heard to'speak and hold rational converse with
men. . . . j .
’• “'Ai'juryOf twenty-four gentlemen, twel-ris.to be chosen
by each party (^ch jbry to consist exclusiyejy.Af ihem-.
bers of. the .learned professions and: literafy’’meh),'To
decide whethe¥’.or not the facts'. contai|ied in the above
propositions Are ^conclusively proved testes—i.e.', by
witnesses of established .ehar^Ctpf- "A .majority:.'of-
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict' be'that these1'
facts have not been established,.'the’thousand'guineas'
are' to- belong to, the party .accepting this-challenge;: ifr
the verdict be that "these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine. '
Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way;; I offer a like challenge of five-hun¬
dred, guineas (to be met on the other side in, like manner,
jas -.above)—the’ownership of the second sum of'one'
thousand guinea^ to_depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained, in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the cictual presence pi the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of themajofityto decide in this ca'se likewise.
“In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public'or .private; building-which the'jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose..
“The result of these challenges' (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense Of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the ’cballenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, - -- •' i ■ - • G. Damiani. .
. “Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters -addressed. ‘Sigr. Damiani, care .of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Com-stre|t, Bristol,’ will always reach'the writer;”
In addition'to the above evidence, there is- the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations' are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at’rather less-than
three millions, and this is about the lowest .estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti-.
mates from three to eleven millions.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but.
cobl rather than Warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody "shall enter it; and that"ther^ shall be fio inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena. -
■2. ’ Let the circle-consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number, of each sex: Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact-with its- top isurface: ■ Whether' the hands
touch each other or not is usually'of no importance.-
Any table will do,-just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of'the sitters'breaks the circle by. leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
penCils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmofiy fends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief-or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations; but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence. |
5. Before the manifestations begin, ;it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singipg, and fit is best that
neither should be of a frivolous, nature. A prayerful,,
earnest feeling among the members, of the circle'is likfely
to attract a higher and-more pleasing class of. spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisiblejpowen at work is;
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping :oy,er the hands.
The first'niamfestatidns will probably he4table tiltings or’
raps.’ • ' • • • '
7. When motions of the .table or soupds are produced
freely, .to. ayoldf confusion, let one person only speak,,
and ■ talk to the table as to . an, intelligent 'being.
Let him1 ten the table'that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means ‘‘No,” and two mean"11 Doubtful,”,
and'.ask whether-the arrangement ;is'understood. If
three signais.be given in answer, then say, “If,I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to- the - letter you want; and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals .be giyen, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this, time an. intelligent,
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put,’“Are we
sitting, in the right order to get the best manifestation's ?”
Probably some merhbers of the circle will then.be told
tq qhange sesds with .each other, and the signals will be'
afterwards strengthened'. Next ..ask,- “ Who. is; the-
medium ? ”' 'When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, weU-chos.en.
questions should be put to test the accuracy' of the
statements, as spirits out of the body ihaye all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of- a circle.symptpms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
maymak their appearance.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION; LIMITED;
, FOR EFFECTING
BANKING LIFE/•& SELF, INSURANOE POLICIES
ON GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.'
Head Offices: . ■
Brown-street - and Marsden-street, -Manchester.
" . ’. i 7 Branch Offices"’ i *• ’' r "■ *'■ '■
20, King William-stfefet,-- London, E.G; • ■
Victoria-buildings,'66, Renfield-street, Glasgow.
4;, College-green, .Dublin,
1, Browri’slbuildings,- Exchange, -Liverpool.
93, Brindess-stteet, Edinburgh; -
- .- . Market'-plhce, Dojiglass,.isle of. Man.
THE DISliNGn-ISHING.’FEATUKEs' OF jlHIS SYSTEM AJUB
: 'It -provides Gotferrimeht 'Security 'for the'Life Premium,
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the, exception- of,one-fifth -for
Expenses, of’Management, Reserve, land Bonuses)’are
invested in the Names of- Trusteds,-’ for' the sole purposd
of'meeting Policy claims. .■ These Trustees'.att indepen¬
dently, of the Directors.
This foririof Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.'-'
An'equitable Surrender-Palue endorse on each. Policy,
and payable on demand.
.From 50 to 70.per cent of n®t.Puemimns paid (ap
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can he obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying, The Surrenderj-value is endOrSedqn
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value-to its full amount, fbr-'any purpose, without
saerifieing their Policy; thus usiny:it\as a.cashbalance, qf',
their Bankers. The- Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more ih.premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
' Insurants, deSifioUs of ceasing premium paying, and
not,wishing,to withdraw.their '‘Surrender-values". can:
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up’’ Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in’ exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement -Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy /or the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further! payment..
Bankers: Bankpf England, Londoii. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. - Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. Wjlliam
Farr,-fA.S., &e., &c., London. . General Manager: John
A.. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies,. Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester., /
SPIRITUAL SEANCES; are; held every
Friday evening, at 15, Southampton-rp.w, Holborn,
W.C./at eight o’blobk.’ Mr.’J.' J. MbRSk; Medium.’’Ad¬
mission One Shilling.
ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERVER OE.
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATHRE, Museums and private' collections attended.
British and foreign birdsl-skins, stags’ heads', fox’s heads,
shells,-; apd corals , in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847.
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffoik-street, Birmingham.
JpEMALE- MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for. the
fofiowing objects:—
X—To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2.—To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and. practice of Midwifery,- and
the accessory branches.of MedicaJ Science.;
The addresses of skilled Lady - Midwiyes, Prospeeue'es
of the College, and all particulars as. t.a the operations of
the Society, may be, obtained bf. the Lady Secretaiy.’'’ I
Temporary Offices—A Fitzro’y-square, W.
NEW WORK. BY XIW. JACKSON, M:AA. ■
Just Published, price Ts.,‘ 8vo., pp: 56, Part'L” ’
Man contemplated physt-
' CALLY, MORALLY, TN.TElXECTuAlLY, :
AND SPIRITUALLY. To be completed in Fofir- Partk
.-London: J.-Burns, 15, Sputbampton-yow, W-G.‘i.’ i
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review
devoted ' to the ■ advocacy : bf reverent free
thought!in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triihner and poi,60vl(atenipsfer-row.-..Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson; afid John Heywbod; fed
through all booksellers and agents;; bfe
Heaven opened • If messages
for the BEREAVED from, our LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Through the mediumship bf F, J. T. Vfith
observations by Mrs. De Morgan. - ‘ In •neat'clo'th, Is. I in
enamel wrapper, fid. London: J. BURNS; 15, SbuthsufijH ■
toniinw, Blpomsbury, W.O. ,
'Foolscap'8vb., cloth. Published - at 3s yn'ow pffered':at„,
■ 2s.;- post free, Vs. 3dt
THE MENTAL CURE-; ’ illustrating- the
Influence of the. Mind onthe Body, both in .Health ■
and Disease, and the Psychological Method of Treatmehtj. ;
by Rbv. W. F. Evans, author pf “.The Celestial.Dawhj”
*1 The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and itsMessengfer,”
.- - . &e;, &c.^e.' i-1,-ir’c11ipH.’;
The design of this Treatise is to efelain the nature and ;
laws-of the inner life of man,-and to’ contribute soMey’l
light on the subject of'Mental Hygiene, which is beginning
to assume impprtance in the freatmgnf of disease,'-ahdfe
attract the attention of physiplpgistsr Tbe - authprihas
aimed to illustrate'fee'correspondence of the soul afe.
body, their mutualaetion and reabtioh,and'tp demonstrate’
the casual relation of disordered mental states to diS^gefi:
physiqlogicaX action, and .the importancevand mode of ,
regulating the'.inteUechiaj ahd^affectionSl nature',‘ortlie;
invalid under rany! system' of medical tf'eaitmehf.I *
Glasgow-:: .Xasuies M‘Geachy, 89, Uniomstfeet.
30’4 pp.,'8vo,,:ClPtHgilt,'-'pri6e-5’s’., post’-free. “.-iI-mU
A LYRIC- OF-' -THE GOLDEN 'S&E?
Thomas- L. Harris.
■ -'Glasgow': John Thomson, 39, John-street.
iNsw5’and.Cheaper Edition, ttloroughly ;revisedf in''One''
- Volume-Demy-8vo.,--pp.. 780, price 7s-fid.' -
Emanuel ■■ swede'nroro: ] Hjg
, LIFE . And ' WRITINGS, i By NviLLlAM
WHITE, Wherein tlie'-History, ’theDoctrineS,’-'tfatl;
-the other-wori&',Experienc@js of the'gj-ent Sw^de a/ejoph- 1
eisely and faithfully set forth;; also- the,,singular-Oi3g|U '"
andUpn'dition pf the •.TijbVpluhi'e
is illustrated with • Four ‘ S^el' -Engravings, ’bju Mfi' lO.!;
H. Jbbns—1. Jasper...Svetiberg, Bishop-; erf Skara'.:;’; if.'--
Emanuel; Swed-enhorg,, qged £6! y.III. Swefteabprg’s
House, Stockholm.1 .IV. Swedpntforg, agpd SO- - ’
■ “It is by the-profusion of his extracts, the honesty bf
■hjs .comment!s,: and- thpjpjohirpqqftO - dijifmhe
crowds his pafes(-ihat.ai-feoe'eaptivates
attention. The work may be described as a long ex-
.haustive-'gossip about Swedenborg, his vyritings and'his
disciples; ipleasarft thbughtfiul, gbjgsip ,frbm;a'- mihd Whiph
impresses you- as,being kindly and truthful above the
conimop. ■ We can with confidence 'assure .thoughtful,
readers th&t tfiefe is morete’mtefest-them'ifi Mii WnffSk ,
biography .than in any-Work of the year wnbse’professed
ohjebt is,to entertain:”—XJuK Mall Gazette.; ; , ..|k ,
.London: Simpkih,, Marshall'and Ob'.
The rise . and progress” gf.
Spiritualism' in, England! by, Benjamin Golemah,'
recently . . published : in . the-. Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet, fonn,' bn.: toned’paper, )withficoloured.wraj)p^-. -
The discussion is also inclTided in the pamphTet/ Cbpips -
maybe had at one'shilling each,'of Mr. E. W.' Allen, '
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.G., and are, of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the,subject
,of Spiritualism. . ., ,, v.
A NTHROI’OIXICY.—’The June imiiiber of ?
J_jL TheSpiritualist contaiifis a report oi a, discilsSidh
on Spiritualism,.which 'recently tookqolqce at the hmthro-
pplogical Institute . Price 3d. b.r 3|d..postfreA;..London
,E. W. Allen, H, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.''
|
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal^ 'non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
iust the same as spirits, in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit a/re but the assertions of an individual; but, by comr
paring the statements of many spirits, it .may in time.be,
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any mere than we can see them, and as 'some
of them are thus in different ,states; of life, it doss not follow
that Contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings de not altogether agree; there'is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of. this
Journal to report- facts, so we are in no way. responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits. .,
HOW. io' FOHM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial-at home, among family
frieiids land relatives; dften'-'giVes the most‘satis¬
factory evideneb pf the-reality of Sjfiritnhl.: pheno¬
mena. - At' the isame'. time,, as no ‘fully developed
niedinni is present among, those who have never!
obtained manifestatjohs; before;;the probability.is.
that there will be no resnlfe NevertirejesSj it is
a very common] thing for, striking manifestations;
to be' obtained m ,this,.way. at the first.sjiting of a’
family circle ;, perhaps !fpr every, onfe |su6cessfnl,
new circle thus started without a medium1, 'there
are six or seven failures, hut ho accurate statistics
on this point! havb^yet been collected.1 ' When
qhce mahifestatjone <haVe hefeh Obtained .they will
gradually inc/ease in power and reliability at suc-
‘cesbive sittings: T-be-fol-lowing-is ‘ a good-plan- of*
!action:—■- - " tW-'tki ;•
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
Exhibition oe spirit drawings
in'WATER COLOURS, by Miss Houghton.—
NEW BRITISH GALLERY, 39, Old Bond-street, Picca¬
dilly. Open daily from 10 a.m. till 6 p.m. Admission 6d.
Catalogue Is.
The Exhibition will close on Friday next, Sept: 22.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN¬
QUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM, 71, Navarino-
road,: Dalston, E., ..zSeirac.es.are held every Thursday
evening.at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in,.course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance.! Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.- |
Messrs, herne and williams;;
r. SpiritAlediums, beg to inform investigators that
.they :aite:'1at , home daily to: give private, stcmces.-from 12!,
a.m.' f6.',5-olclock p.m. They are also open to: receive;
engagements for private sbarkes in the- evening, either at.
home joe. at the. residence of investiga,fbrs. Address, 61,.
Lamb’s Conduit- street, Foundling,' W.Qfc ,
M'li. THOMAS R. MASON teacife
- thoroughly and rapidly the) VjOLIN,’ BANJO,!'
and. .GUITAR, at his:‘Mfislbal AcadJmy, l'34, Peiton-
ville. .Rpad, N., or at the pupil’s repjenbel - Terms seiiti
application.
- ’“A 'Viblin'Sblo (comique); entftlpd / Echoes,’ per-,
forined’hy Mr. T- R- Mason. It eon-sisted of- Echoes ’bf
London; ;Eehoes Of ' the phrisJy Mmstrels, -arid Imita-'
tions bf the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the; Hurdy G’uf dy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and theories bf Animals in a Farm-,
yard?'"TheTmitaflbhs'were femSlkably goodP—Lotiddh'
Daily Chronicle. 1 .
THE SPIRITUALIST,—No, 1 -ai.-The
’■ 'Spiritualist contains an overwbehningrweij*Jit‘:crf,
evidence for the general public, as to the,truth and*
reality of Spiritual phenomena, Nov13'.contains the
leading arguments in favour of and against'the feebiy
that the- manifestations are due to; Satanic r.-agency
London: E. W,Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane,'E^l., ,,
Contents.
The Work of a Psychological Society... ... »... 193
Mr,Varley and ProfessorjAllen Thomson,,.. 194
The British Asspeiation S  ... ... '‘‘jf.,!®’1
What Mr. Guppy thinks .1. ... 194
Mr. Laurence Oliphant’s “Piccadilly” • M .N ’.'.i'lfie 5
The Will   ... ... ... ... ... 187
Spiritualism and Science... ... .j.., 197 ,
Mrs. Guppy’s Mediumship . .7.
Poetry-.^-rThree Words bf Error—Exeter Hall '(1'98 ;
Gorrbsfondbncb:—The". Spirits .in 'Oornwkll-7-The:, ? '!
- Experiences■ of an Inquirer . ... .r...>199
Dr. Newton’s Olairvoyance ... .'.."'"IT. .''..’'199
Whqt.is'a'Miraelb?-... W lik 199
Among the.Sw'ed'enbOrgians ','. 199
Mrs..Hardinge and Mr. Peebles i..-, 1-86 -,
Nr.’JI H.'Powell.:. fj* '..NUr.'’.!. ’ .V. 196 :
Phrenology1... i hi * \ Xft vi.'-HG ‘
■The Eorcei’of .Grdvitation.'.v ;ts!s;.-■ttjrfa in..- j.j.
Thb'Mediumship ojAndrew JacksonDayN ... 197
The Relationship between lipnfi and Matter
A Mesmeric AsspSiafidn1.'.7 ' J. : .I. 197 ,,,
Spiritualism m Carnarvorl’ ' f .... A. 199’:
Printed for the, /Proprietor, hy BifVBRip(3;Ei^..ERAS^6,
, at /he Holborn Printing: Works; -Fuljlwood’s. Renjs;
High Holborn,'’ in the Parish' of ‘St.' Andrew-ahove-
Bar -and ‘St. George the Martyr, Londpn, and published
-by E. W. AliLBN,: AveAflaria-lsine-, London,'-.EK/'i;-; j
