A F^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREff Of THE fCIEjMCE /ND ETHICS OF fPIfITU/EIfM.
No. 17.—Vol. I.
LONDON: JANUARY 15, 1871. M^Pr^TwJence!"617
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND.
Last Monday night, at one of the ordinary weekly
Spiritualistic meetings at the Beethoven Rooms, Harley-
street, Cavendish-square, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, the
President, read a paper on Spiritualism in England.
The hall was filled with an overflowing audience, in¬
cluding many literary gentlemen of high standing, and
a fair proportion of scientific men belonging chiefly to
the medical profession. The following is the paper
read by the President:—
THE LITERATURE OE SPIRITUALISM.
I am about to claim your attention to a succinct his¬
tory of “ The Rise and Progress of Spiritualism in
England, with an Account of some of my Personal-Ex¬
periences in the Investigation of the Subject.”
Eirst as to the literature—including the periodical
publications and the books which have been written
and published in England—and then as to the mediums
who have come amongst us from time to time, with a
truthful and unexaggerated account of some of the mani¬
festations which I have witnessed. I shall not hesitate
to give the names of every one known to me who took
part in any of the seances to which I shall refer, trust¬
ing that those who have dealt fairly with the facts
demonstrated, will absolve me from further reticence,
and not caring what those, persons think who have not
dealt honestly with the facts which have come under
their notice.
As I am aware that I am addressing myself to an
audience which includes men of high professional and
scientific attainments, I may as well say that I lay no
claim to either. I am a man who has been accustomed
to commercial pursuits, and am therefore not the best
qualified to stand here to enlighten men who are far
my superiors in a literary and scientific point of view.
But I hope I may juitly lay claim to the possession of
plain, practical, common sense, without fanatical bias
of any kind, to a rigid love of truth, and a boldness to
declare my convictions in the face of the world, hqw-
ever unpopular they may be; and as I have made
many converts during the last fifteen years, to these
qualities may be attributed whatever success may have
attended my advocacy of the great truth of Spiri¬
tualism.
The Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph was the first
monthly, which shortly after changed its name to The
British Spiritual Telegraph, edited by W. B. Morrell, of
Keighley, Yorkshire, and was continued from 1857—for
two years—to 1859.
The Spiritual Herald was the second monthly. This
was ably edited by the late Mr. James Smith, brother
to Dr. Angus Smith, the well-known chemist. The
Herald was also commenced 1857, and ended after an
existence of six months only.
The Spiritual Magazine was started in 1860. It
has been from the first under the able guidance of Mr.
William M. Wilkinson and Mr. Thomas Shorter. The
Spiritual Magazine proclaims its views in the following
motto:—
“Spiritualism is based on the cardinal fact of spirit com¬
munion and influx ; it is the effort to discover all truth relating
to man’s Spiritual nature, capacities, relations, duties, wel¬
fare, and destiny; and its application to a regenerate life.
It recognises a continuous Divine inspiration in man ; it aims
through a careful reverent study of facts, at a knowledge of
the laws and principles which govern the occult forces of the
universe ; of the relations of spirit to matter, and of man to
God and the Spiritual world. It is thus catholic and progres¬
sive, leading to true religion as at one with the highest
philosophy.”
The Spiritual Times, a weekly, was started in
London in 1864, and ceased in 1866. It was edited by
Mr. J. H. Powell. Daybreak, also a weekly, was first
published in Manchester, 1867, and edited by the
Rev. Page Hopps. It subsequently changed hands and
'title. It is now published and edited by Mr. James
Burns, under the title of The Medium and Daybreak.
Human Nature, a monthly, commenced in 1867, and is
now entering upon its fifth year. This is also edited
by Mr. James Burns. The Spiritualist, published on
the 15th of each month, very carefully edited by Mr.
W. H. Harrison, was started in 1869, and promises to
ibe in every way worthy of the cause. Mr. Harrison
has also commenced a smaller paper, published on the
1st of each month, called The Spiritual News; and
lastly, the Rev. E. Rowland Young, an able Dissenting
minister, has just published the first number of a
monthly, entitled The Christian Spiritualist.
These, I believe, comprise the whole of the periodical
journals which have been published in England to
advocate the cause of Spiritualism.
The works, which have been written by English men
and women, and published in London, are much more
numerous.
The first—and I think before the advent of Spiritual¬
ism in America, twenty-two years ago—were The Night
Side of Nature, and a translation of Dr. Kerner’s
Seeress of Prevorst, by Mrs. Catherine Crowe, both of
remarkable merit, and highly interesting; and in 1859
Mrs. Crowe, after full conviction of the reality and
spiritual origin of the modern manifestations, wrote a
clever little book, entitled Spiritualism, and the Age we
Live in, in which she thus addresses Lhe scientific
world:—
‘ ‘ While I assert these things, I have no' expectation of being
believed; because if I were I should be the first person that
ever received such a distinction as to be believed when he de¬
clared he had seen or heard a fact not recognised by science ;
science being an irresponsible power that absolutely re¬
jects all evidence not according with her own views and
experience. I am aware that science is generally right; but
she is not infallible. She has made mistakes in her lifetime ;
and she may rely on it she never made one more signal, nor
more fatal, to her pre-eminence, than that she has made in i
denying, instead of investigating, the phenomena called Spiri¬
tual manifestations. She knows it too; there are those 11
could name who earnestly wish they had not been so hasty in
committing themselves, and who see, too late, that there was
a great glory to be won by an early and courageous' adoption,
when they had nothing to retract. Now, it is not so easy ;
nevertheless, it must be done, sooner or later; and the glory
be to him who has the courage and the honesty first to avow
his conversion and conviction.”
lu 1853 Mr. Andrew Leigbton re-published an ex¬
cellent little work, The Modern Spirit Manifestations,
by the Rev. Adin Ballou, one of the earliest converts,
and most intelligent of the American advocates of the
truth of Spiritualism, to which Mr. Leighton wrote an
elaborate and highly interesting preface, reciting his
experiences with a member of his own family.
In 1855-6, Mr. Newton Crosland published A New
Theory of Apparitions; and Mrs. Crosland (Camilla
Toulmin) The Light of the Valley.
Mr. John Rymer, a great sceptic long after his family
were convinced (at whose house Mr. Home staid for
some months), published his experiences through the
mediumship of Mr. Home, which were of a very mar¬
vellous character.
There was published about this time Sights and
Sounds, a very interesting volume, by Mr. Henry Spicer,
a friend, I believe, of Charles Dickens, and a contributor
to Household Words.
The Natural and Supernatural, by Mr. John Jones,
and Christian Spiritualism, by Mr. Wm. Bertolacci,
were also amongst the earliest publications in England.
Then followed several most important contributions
to the book-literature of Spiritualism; namely, The
History of the Supernatural, by Mr. William Howitt,
which clearly proves that phenomena similar to that
which it is so difficult for the learned men of the present
day to believe in, were witnessed and accepted by some
of the most learned men of all past ages.
In his preface Mr. Howitt says—
“ The author of this work intends by the supernatural the
operation of those higher and more recondite laws of God, with
which, being as yet but most imperfectly acquainted, we
either denominate their effects miraculous, or shutting our
eyes firmly, deny their existence altogether. So far from
holding that what are called miracles are interruptions or
violations of the course of nature, he regards them only as the
results of Spiritual laws, which in their occasional action
subdue, suspend, or neutralise the less powerful physical laws,
just as a stronger chemical affinity subdues a weaker one, pro¬
ducing new combinations, but combinations strictly in accord¬
ance with the collective laws of the universe, whether under¬
stood or not yet understood by us. At a time when so many
objections are raised to portions of the Scripture narrative,
which unsettle men’s minds and haunt them with miserable
forebodings, the author has thought it of the highest import¬
ance to bring into a comprehensive view the statements of the
most eminent historians and philosophers of all ages and
nations on the manifestations of those Spiritual agencies
amongst them, which we, for want of further knowledge,
term supernatural.
“So great is the assembled mass of evidence from every age
and people, that we are reduced to this dilemma! either to
reject this universal evidence, by which we inevitably reduce
all history to a gigantic fiction, and destroy every appeal to
its decision on any question whatever, or to accept it, in
which case we find ourselves standing face to face with a
principle of the most authoritative character for the solution
of Spiritual enigmas, and the stemming of the fatal progress
of infidelity.”
Mr. Wm. M. Wilkinson, wbo bas a high professional
standing in this metropolis as a lawyer, and who was
amongst the earliest to proclaim his conviction of the
truth of Spiritualism, published a work called Spirit
Drawings, in which he gives the history of Mrs. Wil¬
kinson’s development as a drawing medium, when—
under direct spirit guidance and control, and without
the least knowledge of the art—she produced a large
series of very beautiful symbolic drawings in water
colours. Mr. Wilkinson is also the author of another
book, entitled The Revival, considered in its Physical,
Psychical, and Religious Aspects. Both books are pro¬
nounced by competent authority as ably and philosophi¬
cally written.
Mr. Wilkinson says—
‘ ‘ Incredulity of a fact, I take it, is that wide-spread weak¬
ness of the human mind, which is observed in men who have
perfected their opinions, and have no room for learning any¬
thing more. A new fact to them is just one above the num¬
ber that is convenient or necessary for them, and had they the
power of creating, or of preventing creation, the inconvenient
fact should not have existed.
“Indeed, if admitted into their completed system, “the
little stranger ” would destroy it altogether, by acting as a
chemical solvent of the fabric.
“ But this is not the mode of the searcher after truth ; and
in determining the important question, which it is intended to
submit for consideration, I would rather forget much that I
have been taught, or find it all unsound, than I would reject
one single circumstance which I know and recognise as a
truth.”
Mr. Thomas Shorter, than whom there has been no
more intelligent and active worker in the cause of
L Spiritualism, brought out first The Confessions of a
Truth Seeker, and subsequently a larger volume
entitled The Two Worlds, which in its advocacy of the
truth of Spiritualism takes its stand upon the Bible;
and containing as it does a mass of most useful infor¬
mation, covers the whole ground, and forms a most
valuable book of reference.' Its tone may be gathered
from the following remarks in the author’s preface :—
“ Christians now-a-days are ashamed, or as they think, too
enlightened, to appeal to the direct evidence of a future life
which the facts of Spiritual manifestations supply ; although
their Bible is the greatest storehouse of Spiritual facts, and
the Christian and every other form of religion are cradled in
them. But though this course is now respectable and fashion¬
able, it should be borne in mind that it is only a fashion—that
general scepticism on this point in the Christian world is of
very recent day, and that it has advanced steadily, and in
parallel line with it has been the advance of material philo¬
sophies, the denial of revelation and of a Spiritual world,
and the gravitation of faith to a vanishing point; until at
length, in the bosom of the Established Church of this
country, we find the attempt made by some of its recognised
and eminent teachers to get rid (as divines and professors
have been doing in Germany) of the supernatural element
altogether. Were the effort successful, we might say with
Law, ‘ Behold! the kingdom of God shut up, and only a
kingdom of Scribes and Pharisees come instead of it.’ Nor
need this state of things surprise us; it is a consistent logical
result of the denial of existent Spiritual agencies.”
Einally, in this category, there is a very clever book.
Prom Matter to Spirit, by Mrs. De Morgan, with an
admirable preface from the able pen of Professor De
Morgan, the eminent mathematician. He says—
“ 1 will not stand committed either for or against the con¬
clusions of this book. I am satisfied by the evidence of some
of the facts narrated ; of some others I have evidence as good
as testimony can give. I am perfectly convinced that I have
both seen and heard in a manner which should make unbelief
impossible, things called Spiritual which cannot be taken by a
rational being to be capable of explanation by imposture,
coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground firm under
me. But when it comes to what is the cause of these pheno¬
mena, Lfind I cannot adopt any explanation which has yet
been suggested. If I were bound to choose among things
which I can conceive, I should say that there is some sort of
action of some combination of will, intellect, and physical
power, which is not that of any of the human beings present.
“But thinking it very likely that the universe may contain
a few agencies, say half-a-million, about which no man knows
anything, I cannot but suspect that a small proportion of these
agencies, say 5,000, may be severally competent to the pro¬
duction of all the phenomena, or may be quite up to the task
among them.
“ The physical explanations which I have seen are easy,
but miserably insufficient; the Spiritual hypothesis is suffi¬
cient, but ponderously difficult.”
130
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1871.
Amongst the books of mark -which have been written
to uphold the truth of Spiritualism, and the reality of
the manifestations, is that by Viscount Adare, Expe¬
riences in Spiritualism with Mr. D. D. Home, with
introductory remarks by the Earl of Dunraven. This
volume (which was printed for private circulation only),
though proceeding from the pen of a literary nobleman,
does not pretend to do more than to record a series of
remarkable phenomena witnessed by himself and nume- j
rous friends during the last three or four years. E rom
Lord Dunraven’s preface to. the hook I make the fol¬
lowing extracts :—
“The subject of Spiritualism was first brought under my
notice fifteen years ago, by reading two or three accounts of
the occurrences which were taking place in America. To
some extent I was prepared for the fair consideration of very
strange and startling phenomena, from having previously
examined fully into the subject of mesmerism. . . At that
time scientific men in general, and the medical profession in
particular, were loud in condemnation of what they considered
sheer imposture. .. Since then a great change has taken place
in the opinion of the public on this subject... When table¬
turning became one of the amusements of the day, I witnessed
various experiments which clearly demonstrated the inade¬
quacy of Professor Faraday’s explanation of the manifestations
by involuntary muscular action.”
In reference to the facts recorded in this volume by
Lord Adare and himself, Lord Dunraven says—
“It is obvious that the chief value of such a record must
depend upon the trustworthiness of the narrator. Fidelity of
description is very rare, even where honesty of purpose is
undoubted. I believe that in the present case scrupulous ac¬
curacy, a retentive memory, and an unexcitable temperament
are combined in an unusual degree, forming just such a com¬
bination of qualities as is indispensable for one who under¬
takes to record phenomena of this exceptional and startling
character.
“ It must be borne in mind that an actual record of facts,
and not the adoption or refutation of any particular theory, is
the main object in view.
“Spiritualism, will, therefore, in the ensuing remarks be
regarded chiefly in its scientific or phenomenal aspect. I have
purposely avoided expressing any decided opinion on questions
so complicated, and about which at present such conflicting
opinions prevail, as upon the character of the phenomena, the
source from which they proceed, and the tendency of teaching
to be derived from them.
“The whole subject of Spiritualism is one which must soon
command the attention of thoughtful men in this country, as
it has very fully done in America, and to some extent in
France and other countries of Europe.”
Of the manifestations recorded by Lord Adare, it will
perhaps be sufficient to say that they are among the
most marvellous of those which have been witnessed by
thousands, through Mr. Home’s distinctive, peculiar,
and high-class phase of mediumship; many of them
being in advance of those recorded in Mr. Home’s own
book, Incidents of my Life, the preface to which is
written by no less a man in the world of letters, than
Dr. Robert Chambers, and from which preface I make
the following extract:—
“ It is often remarked as a marvel of a very suggestive kind
in this our highly intellectual age, that men of knowledge and
reflection, of whom so much better things might be expected,
are found so weak as to be imposed upon by such transparent
deception, and so foolish as to come forward and bear witness
in its behalf. But of course this is not reasoning ; it is only
begging the question. The remark might be answered by
another; it is a marvel of a highly suggestive nature that men
of critical judgment should be so'far imposed upon by their
self-esteem, that they can calmly set down a number of men
reputedly as judicious as themselves, and whose judgment
they acknowledge—as capable of seeing and hearing that
which is not—and never appear to suspect that those persons
have possibly some real grounds for the faith that is in them.
A little modesty would evidently go a great way to solve the
difficulty. If they would go a little further, and so far yield
to the behests of their favourite philosophy as to enquire
before pronouncing, it might so chance that the position of a
believer in these phenomena would become more intelligible
to them. So at least it has already appeared with a vast
number of persons, equally positive at starting that the whole
was a delusion ; and we are entitled to assume that what has
been may be again.”
Several other books and pamphlets have been pub¬
lished which possess more or less interest for the reader
of English Spiritualistic literature : Animal Magnetism
and Spiritualism, by Dr. Ashburner; Outlines of Spi¬
ritualism, by Mr. Barkas ; The Life of the Davenports,
by Dr. Nichol, English correspondent to the New YorJc
Times ; Spiritualism in America, by Mr. B. Coleman;
and The Scientific Aspect of Spiritualism, by Mr.
Alfred It. Wallace, the eminent naturalist, who closes
his most useful essay in the following words :—
“In concluding these imperfect illustrations of a subject so
generally tabooed by scientific men, I do not expect or wish
to make a single convert. All I claim is to have shown cause
for investigation ; to have proved that it is not a subject that
can any longer be contemptuously sneered at as unworthy of
a moment’s enquiry. I feel myself so confident of the truth
and objective reality of many of the facts here narrated, that
I would stake the whole question on the opinion of any man
of science desirous of arriving at the truth, if he would only
devote two or three hours a week for a few months to an
examination of the phenomena hrfore prono'uncing an opinion;
for, I again repeat, not a single individual that I have heard
of, has done this without becoming convinced of the reality of
these phenomena. I maintain, therefore, finally, that whether
we consider the vast number and high character of its con¬
verts, the immense accumulation and authenticity of its facts,
or the noble doctrine of a future state which is elaborated—
the so-called supernatural as developed in the phenomena of
animal magnetism, clairvoyance, and modern Spiritualism, is
an experimental science, which must add greatly to our know¬
ledge of man’s true nature and highest interests, and, there¬
fore, demands an honest and thorough examination.” '
SPIRITUAL MEDIUMS.
■ Mrs. Hayden, an American lady, was the first who
came to England. This was in 1853, and amongst the
first who visited her were Dr. John Ashburner, Dr.
John Elliotson, and Professor De Morgan.
Dr. Elliotson and Dr. Ashburner, both prominent
men in the medical world at that time, had bravely
fought the battle for the truth of mesmerism, and Dr.
Elliotson had established a journal to advocate its
cause, called The Zoist. The impressions made upon
the minds of these two honest earnest men, from what
they witnessed of Spiritual manifestations in Mrs.
Hayden’s presence, was widely different. Dr. Ash¬
burner saw the truth at once, and boldly proclaimed it;
Dr. Elliotson treated the whole matter as a gross
imposture: and here was exhibited a strange pheno¬
menon, a man who had suffered martyrdom to establish
one great truth, turning round to denounce and perse¬
cute those who were endeavouring to establish the
claims of a still greater truth of kindred character!
Dr. Elliotson refused even to discuss the subject with
his old friend Dr. Ashburner, and they separated. He
spoke of Mrs. Hayden as a charlatan; of his friends
who believed in her powers, as fools ! and of Spiritual¬
ism as a degrading delusion. The pages of The Zoist
contained most severe articles against the whole subject,
and one of them was illustrated by woodcuts, to show
how the tapping sounds were made. As an example of
Dr. Elliotson’s state of mind at that period, I make the
following extract from The. Zoist of May, 1854:—
“ Anything approaching to this imposture in impious
audacity we have never witnessed. We have felt it an
imperative duty boldly to raise our voice in condemna¬
tion of this vile and unblushing imposture.”
Such was the vigorous outspoken language of a man,
a materialist, accustomed to lay down the law to
others.
Here was, indeed, a hopeless case to all appearances.
Was it possible that a man of. mature years, past the
meridian of life, should ever be convicted of his error ?
should ever be brought to humble himself, and in sack¬
cloth and ashes, so to speak, proclaim openly to the
world his conviction and conversion ? Yet so it came
about, and in this way. He was staying at Dieppe in
1863, and there at the house of Mrs. Milner Gibson he
met Mr. Home, through whom Dr. Elliotson received
such evidence of spirit-presence as to shake his long
cherished philosophy to its very foundation. The
change in his thoughts came about gradually. When I
saw him soon after his return from Dieppe, he said,
though he was satisfied of the reality of the phenomena,
he was not prepared to admit they were produced by
the agency of spirits. “ But,” he added, “ I will say
this much, what I have seen lately has rqade a deep
impression upon my mind, and the recognition of the
reality of these manifestations from whatever cause, is
tending to revolutionise my thoughts and feelings upon
almost every subject.” When I called again some time
in the year 1864, I found him in his library; we
talked upon Spiritualism, and I asked him if he had
read some book just then published. He raised his arm
from a large Bible upon which it rested, and said, “ Ho !
I have no time to read any other book but this. I have
lost too much time already, a proper understanding of
this sacred volume will be more than I can accomplish
in the few years yet remaining to meand he added,
when we were parting, “ You may tell the world that I
deeply regret my folly in so long resisting the truth ;
when I leave this earth I shall die a Christian; and
you may say that I owe my conversion to Spiritualism.”
I am not now stating these facts for the first time. I
published them, with Dr. Elliotson’s permission, in the
Sjnritual Magazine, before his death.
How, what do you, the sceptic and opponent of
Spiritualism, from the religious side, say to such a case
as 1 have here presented? Where is the diabolism
which you fear surrounds the practice of holding com¬
munion with the so-called dead ? and what do you, the
opponent from the other extreme—you who are wedded
to the materialistic philosophy—say to such a conver¬
sion? Have either of you any reasonable answer to
make to my enquiry, put in all kindliness and considera¬
tion, for your educated prejudices ? This is not a soli¬
tary case, be it remembered; there are thousands of
such conversions through the evidences of Spiritualism.
If this be so, can you wonder at the rapid strides which
Spiritualism is making throughout the civilised world ?
Can you be surprised that such an audience as this—
the majority at least—can be assembled to uphold
a belief which teaches nothing worse than that spirit-
communion is both possible and lawful. That our
heavenly Eather is a loving and merciful God! That
each of us must reap as we may sow ! That the future
is a state of eternal progression! and that therefore
there is hope and salvation for all 1
Mr. D. D. Home arrived in England in 1855, and
was most kindly received by the late Mr. William Cox,
of Jermyn-street, who had been for some twenty or
thirty years acquainted with the subject, having had,
as he informed me, ample evidence of Spiritual inter¬
ference with mundane matters long before the American
revival. Amongst the first to meet Mr. Home was Dr.
John Garth Wilkinson, of Wimpole-street; he wrote
out a full and very graphic account of' several seances
he had had with this well known medium—of which
I shall have to speak presently—and he introduced
Mr. Home to Mr. Bymer, of Ealing, then a close-
neighbour of mine,' with whose family Mr. Home
resided for some months, and it was then I first saw
anything of Spiritualism. At this distance of time, now
nearly sixteen years, when the wonders through Mr.
Home’s mediumship have made him a European
celebrity, it is hardly necessary that I should detain
you by a recital of the evidences which made me a
believer, but it belongs to the subject of this “ paper ”
that L should mention some of the incidents which came
under my notice at the earliest stage of my investiga¬
tions. At the very first sitting several things occurred,
which, as I could always trust the evidence of my
senses, satisfied me that some force, accompanied by
superior intelligence, independent of any human being,
was then present and engaged in producing the extra-
ordinary manifestations which I witnessed. At this
seance I was frequently caressed upon my knee by what
felt to be a small, well-formed hand, though I was
seated at the opposite end, from the medium, of a long
dinner table in a brilliantly lighted room, and when
the hands of all present were visibly imposed upon the
surface of the table. Among other things, a large
accordian was brought, at my request, beneath the table
from Mr. Home, and whilst held by me tightly, as it
was neccessary to do to retain it, the air I asked for—
“ Angels ever bright and fair ”—was played by some
invisible power in the most perfect manner possible.
The conclusion to my mind was irresistible; and from
that day to the present moment I have never been
afraid to uphold, on all suitable occasions, the reality of
the phenomena, though I could not at once accept the
Spiritual claims. On a subsequent evening with Mr.
Howard Jackson, a solicitor of Lincoln’s Inn-fields,
Mr. Rogers, son of the well-known dentist of Hanover-
square, Mrs. Rymer, her son, and eldest daughter (who
was herself a most interesting medium), and Mr. Home,
we sat round three-parts of a large circular drawing¬
room table in the twilight of a fine summer evening,
when a beautifully-formed hand and arm rose slowly
from the unoccupied side of the table which we all saw
distinctly. The arm was draped in a sleeve of gauzy
substance, through which we could see the rounded flesh¬
like arm, the drapery terminating with a neat frill at
the wrist; extending itself over the table, the hand lifted
a small bell, rung it, and carried it away. In a moment
or so I felt the hand on my knee, and the bell was
given to me. At my request the hand was placed in
mine, by which I could feel its form and texture. It
was a small hand of velvety softness, neither warm nor
cold; and then to complete my astonishment, the table
rose gradually from the floor and continued to rise
until it touched the ceiling, out of the reach of most of
those present. I could touch it! and then it gradually
descended until it again settled upon the carpet with no
more jar or noise than a snow-flake. At another sitting
those who wore rings had them suddenly slipped off,
and presently a hand appeared at the vacant side of
the table with all the rings, five in number, on its
fingers. The hand was then gently inverted, and,
scattering the rings upon the table, disappeared. How
I hope I may say it without offence, that it does not
require a philosopher to be a witness of such facts, and
that my testimony is as good, for the reality of such an
occurrence, as the most able professor of physics living.
And let me add that I entirely demur to the claim made
by too many, that it requires a long investigation, and
many experiments, to arrive at a safe and solid conclu¬
sion, and that therefore when at length the facts are
admitted by them that the testimony of savans is more
reliable than that of such men as myself, who, having
no prejudices to overcome, decide at once upon the
evidence of our ordinary senses. That it is possible to
find a different solution for the cause of such phenomena
than, that of Spirit, I am not here to deny. Give us a
more rational explanation, and I for one, only anxious
to arrive at truth, will most readily accept it. I need
not recount further the manifestations I witnessed at
that time. They were then all, to me, most wonderful,
but having seen with many other mediums, phenomena
quite as marvellous, they are not now so. I have
indeed arrived at that state of feeling and confidence in
Spirit-power that nothing surprises me ; I only require
the testimony of two or three intelligent, truthful men
and women, to give in my belief to anything, however
impossible it may appear, and I am sure I stand at this
moment in the presence of many who are proud to ac¬
knowledge that they share in my credulity.
Among those who have visited Mr. Rymer’s house at
the period I am speaking of was the late Mrs. Trollope,
who came from Florence by the recommendation of her
friend, Mr. Hiram Powers, the well-known sculptor,
who is a Spiritualist. > She staid at Mr. Rymer’s
house—under the same roof with Mr. Home—for
two or three weeks, during which time she had such
ample evidences that her materialistic views vanished ;
and after leaving Ealing she wrote a letter to Mrs.
Rymer, which I saw, thanking her for her hospitality,
and in which Mrs. Trollope said, | My visit has given
a pillow to my old age, which I little dreamt of.” Her
Jan. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
son, Mr. Thomas Trollope, frequently joined their
■seances, and both were present, when the late Sir
David Brewster (after he and Lord Brougham had met
Mr. Home at Mr. Cox’s in Jermyn-street) came to a
seance at Mr. Bymer’s. Of Sir David Brewster’s conduct
in these matters,. I should hesitate to speak now that he
has passed to a higher life, but that it conveys a moral,
which may serve as a warning to those who may still
rely upon his publicly recorded statements in opposition
to Spiritualism, and who might be disposed fo follow in
his footsteps. The day after Sir David had been to the
seance at Mr. Bymer's, I called upon him, accompanied
by Mr. Rymer, and in the Athenaeum Club I had a
long conversation with him. I told him, that having
read an article attributed to him in The North
British Bevieiv, dead against Spiritualism and its phe¬
nomena, I was anxious to know whether his recent
experiences had changed his opinions. He said they
certainly had, inasmuch as he could not attribute
the phenomena either to trickery or to a delusion of
the senses, but, he added, “Spirit, sir, is the last thing
I will give in to.”
Sir David Brewster, however, when it became known
that he had been looking into Spiritualism, and it was
suspected that he was a believer, wrote a letter to The
Morning Advertiser, addressed to me by name, in which
he strongly denied my version of his admissions, and
the facts /that had occurred at Mr. Cox’s and Mr.
Bymer’s. One of his distinct denials was made in the
following words—“ It is not true, as stated by you, that
a large dinner table moved about at Mr. Cox’sand
in explanation of what did occur, he says—“ Besides
the experiment with the accordion, a small hand-bell to
be rung by the spirits was placed on the ground near
my feet; I placed my feet round it in the form of an
angle, to catch any intrinsic apparatus. The bell did
not ring; but when taken to a place near Mr. Home’s
feet, it speedily came across and placed its handle in my
hand. This was amusing.” And he added, “ I conjec¬
ture the effects were produced by machinery attached
to the lower extremities of Mr. Home.” This letter
was written in the month of October, 1855, and was I
replied to by Mr. Cox, Mr. Thomas Trollope, and my¬
self ; the whole correspondence is reproduced in the |
appendix to Mr. Home’s book. Last year Mrs. Gordon,
Sir David’s daughter, published his biography, and in
making extracts from his diary, she innocently allowed
Sir David to refute himself—thus, under the date of
June, 1855, that is, four months before the date of his
letter to me, he had made a long entry entirely at
variance with his public statements of the same facts.
He says—“ The most unaccountable rappings were
produced in various parts of the table, and the table
actually rose from the ground when no hand was upon
it. A larger table was produced, and exhibited similar
movements. ... A small hand-bell was then laid down
with its mouth upon the carpet, and after lying for
some time, it actually rang ivhen nothing could have
touched it. .. . These were the principal experiments.
We could give np explanation of them, and could not
conjecture how they could be produced by any kind of
mechanism.”
This, I think, settles the merits of that controversy,
and vindicates Mr. Home’s, integrity of conduct and my
veracity of statement. Sir David’s daughter says that
her father had “ a dual nature.” It is to be regretted
that I and many others were only permitted to see
the worst side of it. A curious fact remains to be said
of Sir David Brewster. He was himself a medium;
he saw spectres. “His own quaint confession,” says
his daughter, “ that he was afraid of ghosts, though
he did not believe in them, was as near the truth as
possible.”
A few words about Lord Brougham will complete
this part of my history. Contrary to statements made
in the press, I have reason to believe that Lord
Brougham never spoke or wrote a word against Spiri¬
tualism ; on the contrary, all that is known of his
opinions upon this subject gives evidence that he was
strongly impressed that it was an important truth. I
had a short conversation with him, when the few words
that he said, showed me that he was greatly impressed
with what he saw at the seances he had with Mr.
Home at Mr. Cox’s; and in a work entitled Nature, by
Mr. Charles Groom Napier, published early i*i the last
year, the preface written by Lord Brougham, closes
with these remarkable words—“ There is but one
question I would ask the author, Is the Spiritualism
of this work foreign to our materialistic manufacturing
age ? No; for amidst the varieties of mind which
divers circumstances produce, are found those who
cultivate man’s highest faculties; to these the author
addresses himself. But even in the most cloudless skies
of scepticism I see a rain-cloud; if it be no bigger
than a man’s hand, it is a moderx Spiritualism:.”
And, doubtless, in his forthcoming biography, we
-shall hear more of Lord Brougham’s thoughts and
feelings upon a subject which it is evident greatly in¬
terested him, and which he never discredited.
In the article written by Dr. Garth Wilkinson, to
which I have alluded, after describing his experiences,
'he says:—
“ I differ, therefore, with Sir David Brewster in his mode
of exploration, and also in his valuation of presumptive honesty
and human testimony, which always hitherto has been the
most substantial word in the world, and a pillar which
Divine Providence has not disdained to Nise in supporting the
canopy of His revelations It seems probable, from ex¬
perience, as well reason, that, granting the phenomena to be
spiritual, the presence of determined scoffers at, and dis¬
believers in them, should in case the said persons be pre¬
ponderant in their influence in the circle, render the mani¬
festations imperfect or perhaps null. The known laws of
human sympathy, and the operations of our own spirits when
antipathetic persons are near jus, may be also cited jin proof
of this. I conclude, then, that to the scoffer and the strongly
prejudiced, who want no evidence, and to whom evidence has
no appeal, evidence is, for the most part, not forthcoming
This simplifies the position ; but what still remains is the
peculiar Christian politesse of this century, viz. the necessity
of good manners, and the agreeing to differ. On the part
of those who believe, this may be best secured by letting the
other party be. Providence can convince them, too, as easily
as ourselves, when the time and their function comes, but by
snatching at them prematurely, before they are ripe, we may
evoke, on a great scale, two of the most formidable spirits
of this world—Wrath and Pear.
“ As a final remark, let me caution the public against being
led by Sir David Brewster, Professor Faraday, and other men
of great names in their own departments, in this matter, which
is not obviously within their field. . .. They are so alien to the
subject, that they do not know the first condition of prosecuting
it, viz. a gift of sympathy, and openness to conviction. Their
very speciality of excellence in physical explorations, is against
them in this new walk, which is combined spiritual and phy¬
sical. The common observer, with little in his mind, with no
repute to support, and no case to uphold, may perchance
be equipped by nature for those revolutionary sciences where
the savans are stupid upon them. Twelve fishermen, and not
the high priests, are the everlasting resources of Providence,
I therefore invite the unattached laity, of all descriptions, the
willing fishermen, to remember that they have no overmen in
this department; that it is an untrodden field ; and that by
the Grace of God there is at least a freedom for us all from
the pressure of big names, ‘ because the race is not to the
swift, nor the battle to the strong.’ ”
About the same period, i.e. 1855, Mrs. A. E. Newton
visited England. She is the wife of a gentleman who
now holds an important post in the Government Edu¬
cational Department at Washington; they were among
the earliest converts to Spiritualism, and suffered
martyrdom. They were members of the Congregational
Church in Boston, from which body they seceded, and
published their reasons for so doing, in which they
said:—
“ A truth so novel and startling could not be at once re¬
ceived, however demonstrative and convincing the evidence
might be upon which it rested. Nor was it until evidence
had accumulated upon evidence, and proof became piled upon
proof—not until manifestations of the most marvellous
character had been repeatedly witnessed under a great
variety of circumstances; and notwithstanding the application
of every conceivable test—that we could consent to acknow¬
ledge, even to ourselves, a belief in the agency of spiritual
beings. That belief, however, in spite of prejudice and
scepticism—in spite of the general cry of “ Delusion and
Imposture ’’—in spite of all Attempts of scientific men to
explain the marvels on the basis of materialism (which ex¬
planations' we found to be in every case wholly inadequate
to account for what we witnessed), that belief became at
length forced upon our minds by irresistible evidence.”
It was an important epoch in my life in view of the re¬
sults which have followed, when I had the good fortune to
make the acquaintance of Mrs.'Newton, whose religious
tone of mind, and most eloquent reasoning, smoothed
down all the difficulties which naturally arose in my
own mind, even after I had seen and acknowledged the
reality of the phenomena. Bat this is not the time to
dwell and enlarge upon that point.
Mrs. Newton was at this time a medium, a seer, which
I take to be.a superior development. The following is
a remarkable instance of her mediumistiq powers:—
On one occasion, in my presence, a Mr. Holmes engaged
her in conversation. He was confessedly a materialist." He
started several propositions, which Mrs. Newton combated
in language so eloquent and manner so simple and earnest,
with reasoning so logical, that Mr. Holmes was speedily
driven into a corner, and at length he said, “Well, well, all
that you have urged may be true, but it does not convince
me, and indeed nothing will, until I have direct evidence
from some one whose < memory I revere. If, for instance, I
could obtain a manifestation from my mother, it would go
far to satisfy my doubts.” “ Why,” exclaimed Mrs. Newton,
“ it is your mother’s spirit who has impressed me to speak
these truths to you ! I see her now, standing by your side,
she tells me that her name is JBeUy, and the child standing
by her side is Ellen, your child ; they implore you to believe
that there is a spirit-world and a life immortal.” Mr. Holmes
countenance changed, and he remained for some moments
silent. I asked him if he recognised the names ? He ad¬
mitted that his mother’s name was Betsy, and that he had
lost a child whose name was Ellen. The seed, however, in
in this instance was scattered on “ stony ground,” for on
meeting Mr. Holmes some two or three years after, I found
that he was still an unbeliever.
One of the most remarkable and gifted mediums who
have come from America to England is the Kev. Thomas
L. Harris. He is an inspired poet and preacher. Two
of >his poems—The Lyric of the Golden Age, and The
Lyric of the Morning^Land, published in 1856—were
dictated whilst he was lyings in a state of profound
trance, the words coming from his lips without a falter
or correction as rapidly as they could be written down
by an amanuensis. Of The Golden Age, a competent
authority, Mr. S. B. Brittain, one of the attesting
witnesses, says—
“ This lyric has scarcely less than Miltonic grandeur,
while in parts, at least, it has more than Miltonic
splendour. The descriptive portions are wonderful as
illustrations of the compass of our language.”
Mr. Harris preached a series of sermons in London
in 1859, and among his constant attendants were Lady
Oliphant, widow of Sir Anthony Oliphant, and her son
Laurence Oliphant, late M.P. for Stirling, a well known
litterateur,,si\\di at this moment, I am told, engaged in
France as correspondent to the Times. He accompanied
Lord Elgin in his special mission to China, and he was Se¬
cretary of Legation in Japan. He has written many
works of travel, and is a contributor to B lackwood’s Maga¬
zine. In his last work, Piccadilly, which is a strong
satire on the follies of fashionable life, one of his
characters of most excellence is the Bev. T. L. Harris.
Shortly after Mr. Harris left England he founded a re¬
ligious community of Spiritualists at a place called Was-
saick, in the State of New York, where Miss Ina Eawcett,
now Mrs. Cuthbertson, a friend of mine, a lady of higli
culture and ample fortune, and Lady Oliphant joined
him. This community, I have been told, live in perfect
peace and contentment, their habits and mode of life
are of the most primitive character; they carry on
various industrial employments, working at trades ac¬
cording to their choice, having no servants, and, indeed,
living somewhat after the manner in which the first
followers of Christ are said to have done. They regard
Mr. Harris as a chosen servant, a great light and high
priest of the New Christian Church. During the par¬
liamentary vacations, Mr. Laurence Oliphant was ac¬
customed to make an annual visit to Wassaick, and
about two years ago he resigned his seat in Parliament,
and joined this community. How it is that Mr. Oli¬
phant has now returned again to the world and to
literary pursuits, I am not informed. He is a man of
brilliant talents, of great social influence, and a Spiri¬
tualist. . But, as a disciple of Mr. Harris’s,. I do not
think he would now join a seance, as he would eagerly
have done when I first knew him.
His conversion to Spiritualism, as he described it to
me, came about in this way. He was walking through
the streets of New York, when seeing on a door plate
the name and calling of a spirit medium, he entered,
and asked the medium for some proof of his. power.
After a short time the man went into a dreamy ab¬
normal state, and, springing up, caught hold of the
hand of his visitor, shaking it heartily, and exclaimed,
—“ Laurence, my friend, I am happy to meet you
again.” “ Who are you ? ” was the inquiry. “ Why,
I am Tom So-and-So, who died in your arms in the
Crimea.” Satisfied that the medium could know
nothing of himself or history, Mr. Oliphant became
deeply interested, pursued his inquirers, which ulti-
mated, as I have said, in his becoming a disciple of
Mr. Harris, who claims to be controlled and guided by
Spiritual influx.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
When staying at an hotel some years ago in Edin¬
burgh, I made the acquaintance there of a well-known
physician. Dr. W. A. “Browne, a Commissioner in
Lunacy, who was engaged on official business in that
city. At breakfast one morning, where we were joined
by his son, a medical student, I received, with my
letters, a copy of the Spiritual Magazine, which I
handed to Dr. Browne, and I asked him if he knew
anything of that subject. “ No,” he said, “ I look
upon it as a great delusion! I received a letter the
other day though, from a former pupil of mine, telling
me of some strange antics of tables being lifted and
broken by invisible agency, of which he had just heard,
and he asked me if I thought ‘ such things could be.’
I told him I did not think they could, and that such
matters were not worthy of a serious thought.” “ You
are mistaken, Doctor,” I said, “ such things can be, and
are well worthy, in my opinion, of a medical man’s
most serious consideration. I know who your pupil is,
and I know that the incidents mentioned by him hap¬
pened in his own presence, and at his own house.” This
led to further conversation upon the subject, and, in
compliance with the Doctor’s request, I related some
of my own experiences, during the recital of which, by
his gestures and expression, I gathered that he thought,
it would be but a waste of time to talk further with a
man so lamentably weak as to insist that these things
were true. I however pressed Dr. Browne before we
parted to answer me a question,—“ Supposing,” I said,
“that my friends, like the great mass of mankind,
ignorant of the facts of which I have just spoken, were
led to suspect my sanity, and you had been called in to
give your professional opinion upon the state of my
mind, and I had repeated seriously, and emphatically,
the statements which I have just made to you; would
you not have thought me mad, and have sent me to a
lunatic asylum ? “ Well,” said the Doctor, with great
gravity and candour, “ I think I should.”
“ Then,” I retorted, “see what an awful responsibility
rests upon men like you, and how necessary it is that
you should know, as much as I know, before you can
discharge your duties faithfully. You know that I am
not mad; and yet I insist that these things are not
delusions, but that they are realities, and your pupil
now knows they are, and the evidence lies broadcast
throughout society.”
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1871.
The Doctor smiled, but made no reply, and our con¬
versation ended. I do not know if he profited by it;
but I have reason to believe that his son did, for he
wrote to me some time after, telling me how much
interested he had been in the conversation I had had
with his father, and as he was about to read “ a paper ”
to the medical students before he left Edinburgh, in
which he would like to introduce the subject of Spirit¬
ualism, he begged me to lend him any books of reference
upon the subject, which I did. This gentleman, Dr.
Crichton Browne, is now, I am told, a very rising and
able man, and has charge of the County Asylum at
Wakefield. How much of his acknowledged ability he
may owe to his study of the questions raised in my
conversation with his father, I know not. But I do not
suppose he will forget the lesson in psychology, which
he did not learn at college.
Let me now claim your attention to an important
history relating to Dr. Browne’s former pupil, who now
holds an eminent position in the medical world. This
doctor edited a scientific journal at the time when he
first heard of Spiritualism, from reading Hr. Bymer’s
pamphlet (to which I have alluded), and straightway
without, as he will now confess, knowing much about it,
he proceeded to slay the monster; to destroy the J delu¬
sion ” by which, as he thought, so many weak men and
women were being enthralled; and in the columns of
his journal, after repeating some of Mr. Bymer’s state¬
ments respecting the phenomena, the worthy Doctor
says:—
“ These are strong facts, and it is allowing a great deal to'
say that we think Mr. Rymer to be in earnest in stating his
belief in them. For ourselves, me entirely disbelieve them, and
shall gladly give any one the opportunity of convincing us.
In the meanwhile we venture to recommend to Mr. Rymer’s
attentive study, an old-fashioned college text-book, which we
suspect he has never opened—Pratt’s Mechanical Philosophy.
He will there learn of those immutable laws which the un¬
changing God has impressed once and forever on Creation!
and reading of the wondrous harmony and order which reign
by their operation throughout the whole bounds of Creation,
he may, perhaps, come to share our doubts and disbelief of
those imaginings which tell us of their violation, in moving
tables and shaking lamps, and dancing chairs; and he may,
perchance, should his study prosper, catch also a sense of the
pitying scorn with which those nurtured on the strong meat
of the inductive philosophy, within the very courts and halls
that Newton trod, view these sickly spiritualistic dreamers,
thus drunk with the new wine of folly and credulity.”
I can imagine with what an air of proud satisfaction
the Doctor rose from his editorial chair after hurling
from his facile pen such an eloquent denunciation against
these stupid mummeries, and, probably, saying to him¬
self : “ There! that will settle the question ; no intelli¬
gent man, I think, will ever dare to stand up in future
in defence of the so-called spiritual phenomena.” But
there is an end to all delusions, and the day was at
hand when this doctor was to be relieved of his halluci¬
nations ; when the tables were to be turned in a double
sense, one of them being literally smashed in his presence,
and “ the immutable laws of creation ” rudely violated.
When this came about “ the old college text-book ” was
lost sight of in the bewilderment which overcame this
worthy Doctor, now himself ii drunk with the new wine
of folly and credulity.”
It so happened that some time after the doctor’s essay
had been published, I accidentally made his acquaintance,
when we talked of Spiritualism, in which he seemed to
take a lively interest; I did not know why, nor that he
had been a public opponent of *f the delusion.” In the
conversation I mentioned Mr. William Wilkinson’s
name as a friend of mine, and a full believer in the
subject. “Is it possible? I know him,” said the
Doctor; “ he is a very able man; I shall call upon him
and talk the matter over.” We exchanged cards and
parted, and the next that I heard of him was, that
having called. upon Mr. Wilkinson, that gentleman
had arranged to take Mr. Bollin Squire, a young Ameri¬
can and a very powerful medium, to the Doctor’s house
in the country, where, during their stay, a series of
seances were held, when, among other striking incidents,
a strong iron-bound table was, at the Doctor’s request,
smashed in half a minute by some invisible power, and
the fragments thrown across the room; and this was
one of the facts of which Dr. Browne spoke to me in
Edinburgh.
The Doctor was so strongly impressed with all he
had seen, that he at once wrote another article; not,
however, for the Scientific Journal, but for the Spiritual
Magazine, and to which, to his honour be it said, he
would have appended his name, but Mr. Wilkinson dis¬
suaded him from doing so lest he should evoke “ the
pitying scorn” of those less enlightened, who were
“ nurtured on the strong meat of the inductive philo¬
sophy,” and he accordingly withheld it. In that paper,
which was published in the first volume of the Spiritual
Magazine, he gave a full account of what he had wit¬
nessed, and subsequently he wrote a second article for
the Spiritual Magazine, published in August 1860, in
which he says:
“ I have been very much laughed at for my former record of
facts. My own brother has informed me that he does not be¬
lieve one word of them, A valued friend refused to reprint
them in his medical journal solely from regard to my,reputa¬
tion. Weill I must remember the old adage, ‘Magna est
Veritas,’ and trust to its final victory. In the meantime I feel
it due to science and to truth, without troubling myself about
the consequences, to place the following Ftjkther Facts
on record.
“ I again pledge my word of honour to their strict accuracy.
I have only recorded what I have myself verified and seen.”
A seance with Mr. Home is then described, and the
writer concludes with the following propositions :
“ 1. In the presence of a medium raps on and about the
table, on the floor, on the walls of the room, do occur without
the intervention of any physical agent, &c. 2. These raps and
knocks are, moreover, intelligent. 3. The table at such circles
is frequently moved and tilted, and suspended in the air with¬
out any visible agency, and other articles of furniture are
similarly mo?ed. 4. A shadow hand, not that of any one
present, is sometimes formed, which places a bell on the table,
or lifts a pencil laid on a piece of paper and writes with it.
5. Most wonderful music is played on an accordion without
any human agency, &c. &c.”
And now. Ladies and Gentlemen, you will expect me,
in fulfilment of my promise, to divulge the name of this
gentleman, and I shall do so for the purpose of holding
him up to the admiration of all right thinking men and
women, for the candour and rare moral courage he has
evinced in-retracting an error of judgment as soon as j
he was satisfied that it was no longer tenable. His
name is Lockhart Bobertson, a member of the Boyal
College of Physicians, and recently promoted by the
Lord Chancellor to fill one of the highest offices in his
profession, and I have to add that he has done me the
honour of being here present, and he will, no doubt,
have something to say to me by-and-bye, as he did not
know that I was about to give his name, and his most
admirable conduct, so much prominence in my address.
But I trust, seeing the desperate fight which we Spirit¬
ualists have, in overcoming the prejudices of his com¬
peers, that Dr. Bobertson will not think I have made
an unfair use of the facts with which his name is so
honourably associated.
JSXTRAORDIXART SPIKITTJAL MAHTFESTATIOXS.
Amongst my early experiences a very remarkable
incident occurred at Malvern, where I was well known,
and had a close intimacy with the two leading Hydro-
paths, Dr. Gully and Dr. Wilson. Both were materialists,
and both were converted through my instrumentality to
Spiritualism. The following are the circumstances :—
I occupied, with my wife and step-daughter, at the time I
am about to speak, apartments at the house of a man named
Wilmore, who, with his wife and daughter, conducted the
house. They had staying with them a Miss Lee, of Worcester,
and a Mr. Moore, of Halifax. I was a frequent visitor at
Dr, Wilson’s establishment, and on intimate terms with most
of the patients, and I excited considerable interest among
them, by talking unreservedly of Spiritualism and its pheno¬
mena. One day, Mr. Howard Kennard, a member of the well-
known firm of Iron Merchants, in Thames-street, London,
asked me if I would use my influence to induce the Marshalls
to come to Malvern, and he would guarantee that they should
receive a fee of not less than £10.
I wrote accordingly, and the Marshalls came to Malvern,
where I took rooms for them. Mr. Kennard invited whom he
pleased to the various seances which followed, and the usual
differences of opinion arose amongst the sitters. One person,
whom I did not know at the time, Mr. Novra, a professional
conjurer, of Regent-street, was looked up to by Mr. Kennard
and his friends as a clever fellow, and a great authority ; and
to Mr. Novra was assigned the duty of quietly watching the
movements of the mediums, and explaining the method by
which they accomplished “ their dexterous tricks.” And by
the way this conjurer afterwards tried to make professional
capital out of his experiences at Malvern, by getting up lec¬
tures at St. James’ Hall, illustrated by large transparencies to
expose Spiritualism, which were a gross travestie and a signal
failure, but which, nevertheless, were greatly praised by two
or three of the London journals.
We'retired after the second seance to Mr.Kennard’s rooms,
and there Mr. Novra explained to Mr. Kennaxd’s entire satis¬
faction, that the Marshalls effected their manifestations by
the aid of a little boy, or a well-trained monkey, concealed
under the petticoats of the elder female!
On the following day the Marshalls told] me, when I called
upon them, that Mr. Novra, who I found sitting in their
room, was keeping guard over them to prevent their leaving
the town, and that Mr. Kennard had gone to the magistrates
for a warrant to arrest them as rogues and vagabonds.
I went immediately to the court, and there I found Mr.
Kennard with the Clerk of the Peace, who had made out an
order awaiting the magistrate’s signature. Col. Wilmott, the
presiding magistrate, having arrived, he was handed the
document for his signature, when I interposed, and demanded
to know upon what ground such an outrage was about to be
perpetrated. The Clerk read the section of the act affecting
the conduct of rogues and vagabonds, “ That if any money
should be received under false pretences,” &c. I asked Mr.
Kennard if any money had been demanded of him, or if he or
any one had paid any money to Mrs. Marshall. He was
obliged to admit that he had not; and his shameful attempt
to punish these innocent women, who had come to Malvern to
oblige him, failed. This very unlooked-for episode, however,
had a result which fully compensated me for the annoyance.
The Marshalls could not leave as they had intended to do on
that day, which was Saturday, and at my request they con¬
sented to remain until the following Tuesday. On returning
to my apartments that evening, my landlord, Mr. Wilmore,
asked me, as a special favour, to let him see something of
these mediums’ powers. He had he said, been bath-man at Dr.
Gully’s for some years, and knew something of Mesmerism,
but he had never seen anything of Spiritualism, and he did
not believe in it.
I gave him a note to the Marshalls, and they arranged to
come to his house on the following afternoon, when he invited
several of his neighbours and their wives, who, with the'
inmates of his own household, formed a, party of about ten or
twelve persons. I and my family were to,spend the day out,
but before leaving I was accosted whilst walking round the
garden by Wilmore's visitor, his daughter’s suitor, Mr. Moore,
who said in a strong Yorkshire accent—“ I beg your pardon,
sir, but I understand you say that a table can be lifted without
human hands or machinery.” “ Yes,” I said, “it. can, by spirits.”
“ And you say music can be played in the same way ? ’’ “ Yes,”
I said, “ it can.” “ Whoy I would as soon believe that this house
could be pitched over yon hill; I’m surprised at a gentleman
like you talking in that way.” I could not help smiling at the
little man’s earnestness and incredulity, and I asked him if he
were to be of the party who were to meet that afternoon ?
He said he was stopping on purpose ; then I said, “ You had
better save your indignation until you have had an opportunity
of seeing what may happen.”
I left home and returned about 10 o’clock, letting myself
in, when my wife and daughter went to bed and left me
alone in our sitting room, which was shortly after entered by
Wilmore in a state of great excitement, and looking very pale.
“ Oh, sir,” he said, “ I am glad you have come in ; do come
downstairs ; there’s my wife and daughter in hysterics, and
I don’t know what to do.” I accompanied him at once, and
entered upon a scene which I shall never forget. On a chair
near the door Miss Wilmore was seated, rocking herself about
with her handkerchief pressed close to her eyes, screaming as
hard as she could ; a small round table on three legs, whose
antics it appeared was the cause of all the confusion, ambled
up to me, no one touching it, and made me a profound bow, as
if to say, How do you do ? Mrs. Wilmore was pale and
trembling, and Miss Lee was lying on the sofa kicking and
screaming in concert with her friend at the other end of the
room. I went to her and tried to pacify her; the table accom¬
panied me ambling like a dog in a frisky humour, and stood
by my side. She recovered herself after a time, and in
sobbing accents was about to explain, when the table, upon
which her eyes were fixed, made a sudden jump at her and set
her off again into violent hysterics. I then seized the table,
and putting it down in the middle of the room, I said sternly,
“ Now, spirits, you have done quite enough ; leave this family
in quiet. Go ! I insist upon it in God’s name, go !” Where¬
upon the table remained quiet, and as soon as these good
people had recovered themselves sufficiently, they commenced
to explain what they had been doing, and how the excitement
I witnessed had come about. At this moment I discovered
that my Yorkshire friend of the morning was seated with his
arms folded, doubled up, in a dark corner of the room, as
much frightened apparently as the women, but quite silent.
They then told me that during the seance of the early part of
the evening, when the Marshalls were present, among other
things it was said by the invisibles, that both Wilmore and
his daughter were mediums, and after their family supper
Mr. Moore suggested that they should try what they could do
with the table on their own account. They accordingly sat
round it, and soon obtained responses to their questions. Mr.
Moore said, “ I assure you, sir, it has been talking to us like ‘ a
human.’ It told me where my father lived, and where he died;
and when we wanted to give up, the table actually refused,
and it has been going about as you saw it, like mad, for nearly
an hour. It’s most extraordinary 1 It’s most extraordinary !
I shall deliver a lecture upon it in our town. Do you
think I might ?” “ Well,” I said, “ I think you had better not, no
one would believe a word of your statement. You would find
them much in the same condition of mind that Mr. Moore was
this morning.”
I went on the following morning to see Dr. Gully; I
told him of the strange events of the previous evening, and
this I believe was the first incident that stimulated him to
a serious inquiry. He requested me to arrange a seance that
evening with Wilmore and his daughter, which I did, and
they proved to be the strongest mediums I have ever met,
without having had any previous experience. The ‘ rapping |
sounds were loud, and the intelligence was even more than
usually clear and coherent. Dr. Gully got a message purport¬
ing to be from his father, who gave the name of “ Daniel.”
From that moment Dr. Gully’s interest was awakened to the
importance of the subject, and having many opportunities of
investigating since then, chiefly through Mr. Home, who has
frequently been his guest, Dr. Gully is now, and has been for
some years, a full and firm believer.
Dr. Wilson, too, became a convert and an enthusiastic
advocate for the truth of Spiritualism, and in one of the last
letters he wrote to me before .his sudden death, he said he had
determined to go to America to obtain all the information he
could upon the subject.
The following is another incident of interest, which
came within the range of my personal experience :—
Mr. John J. Schenk, a merchant in the City, who is a
German by birth, but long resident in England, was intro¬
duced to me by Mr. Hy. Gibson, also a merchant in the City,
who had himself been convinced of the truth of Spiritualism.
Mr. Schenk was deeply imbued with the German philosophy,
and as a matter of course totally opposed to Spiritualism. We
talked over the subject for some time, when he exhibited the
strongest, most contemptuous feelings for my reasoning and
facts. He, however, consented to accompany me at once
to the Marshalls, where among other startling evidences for
which he was so little prepared, a small table, upon which
the medium’s fingers were lightly imposed, rose about a foot
from the floor and remained suspended, when at my request
Mr. Schenk stood up, and placing one hand on each side of the
table, he tried in vain with all his strength to press it down.
The table resisted his efforts, just as if it had been sup¬
ported by a powerful spring. This was enough ; he threw up
his hands and exclaimed in a state of great excitement, “ Good
God ! is this true.” On the following morning he called upon
me to tell me of his interview with his wife, who had been
for some years a delicate invalid and unable to go into society.
On arriving at home he immediately sat down and gave Mrs.
Schenk a full account of his evening’s adventures which,
wonderful as they were to him, seqmed to excite no interest in
her. She shook her head, and smiled at his earnestness. “ You
don’t seem,” he said, “ to be in the least surprised at what I am
telling you. Ah ! I suppose you think I have been deluded,
and you don’t believe a word of it.” “ Yes,” she replied, “ I do
believe it all. I have no doubt of the power of spirits; I know
they can make themselves seen and felt. I have had expe- 1
rience of the fact for years past! My mother’s spirit fre¬
quently comes to me, and only this very morning she laid her
hand upon my shoulder as I was coming downstairs.” Such a
statement made to him for the first time quite overwhelmed
my friend.
He asked her “ How it was that she had never told him
of these things before ? ” and her reply conveys a lesson which I
hope will not be lost upon some of my auditors; “ Look,” she
said, at the state of my health ? Knowing your condition
of mind, I dare not speak to you of these things. You would
have thought them proofs of an infirmity of intellect, and as
our doctor would probably have agreed with you, I might have .
spent the rest of my days in a lunatic asylum.”
, Mr. Schenk is now a confirmed Spiritualist; but he. told ■
Jan. 15, 1871.
133
THE SPIRITUALIST.
me the other day he had ceased to talk about it, for he was
sick of meeting with people who were so obstinate and
incredulous.”
AN INTERESTING INCIDENT.
To show how much wisdom there was ia Mrs.
Schenk’s caution, I will relate a story as a case in point.
I may not, in this instance, mention names. It would
not be fair to the members of an excellent family who
reside in the neighbourhood of London :—
I made a visit to a lunatic asylum in Yorkshire, some few
years ago, and I asked the matron who was conducting me
through it, whether any of the patients imagined they saw
spirits. There is one lady she said that did, and at my re¬
quest I was introduced to her. After a few words of ordinary
conversation, I said to this lady, “ I understand that you know
something of a subject in which I am much interested. You
see spirits, I am told, and have intercourse with them. Have
you any objection to speak to me, and tell me of your ex¬
periences?” “Do you think,” she replied, with a sig¬
nificant glance at the matron, “that this is the time
and place to talk upon such a subject?” I felt at once
the force of her remark, and turned the conversation to other
topics. Before I left, she asked me if I knew A. B. “ Yes,”
I said, “ I know him intimately.” “ I am so pleased to hear
that, he is my brother, and though I was placed here, where
I have been detained for seven years by his consent, I know
his loving and generous heart would not allow him to do an
unkind or unjust act. He has provided amply for my com¬
forts, and he has corresponded regularly with me until
within the last two or three months, and now I cannot get
a reply to my letters ; will you, on your return, call upon him
and ask him why he does not write, and why I am still de¬
tained here.” I of course, promised to do so, but before
leaving, I sought an interview with the doctor in charge of
the establishment, and I asked him why Miss Blank was
detained there. He said, “ Because she is mad.” “ Do you
think, I asked, she is mad because she says she sees and
talks with spirits ? ” “ Well,” he replied, “ I think that would
be pretty strong proof.” This was enough to satisfy me of Ms
delusion, and I left the place with a sad heart. On my
return to London, on the following day, I sought her brother,
who is one of the most worthy men 1 know. He explained
the case, which seemed to justify him in giving his consent to
his sister being placed there in the first instance, and he
showed me her letters. They were splendid specimens of a
highly educated and superior woman. But in one corner of
every letter there were two words written in large characters,
which were not comprehensible, the meaning of which she
refused to explain, and this was the doctor’s proof that she
was not sane. Her brother listened with great respect to
what I had to say upon the subject. I suggested that those
enigmatical words might be her spirit-name, which many
mediums adopted, and which, if she had so explained it,
would have been taken as additional proof of her lunacy.
I entreated her brother to go and see her, and to judge for
himself, not heeding what the doctor might think or say. He
did so, and brought his sister away with him at once. This
occurred about eight years ago, and they have lived, I am
told in perfect harmony together under the same roof ever
since. For the reasons I have stated, I do not mention the
name of this family, but if any of the medical men pre¬
sent feel sufficient interest in this case, I will in confidence
give the name to them that they may make enquiry and satisfy
themselves that this is/a truthful statement of facts.
THE DAVENPORT BROTHERS.
Of all the Spiritualistic exhibitions in England, that
of the Davenport Brothers created most excitement.
The conduct of the English press was very unjust
towards these young Americans, and the brutality ex¬
hibited by the mob at Liverpool, and afterwards at
Huddersfield, where, in both places, their cabinet was
smashed, without discovering any concealed apparatus,
is a disgrace to the police and magistracy of those
towns. I have no hesitation in saying that the phe¬
nomena witnessed in the presence of the brothers and
Mr. William Eay, who accompanied them, were
genuine from first to last.
The phenomena, for the most part, never were, and
could not be, successfully imitated by any conjuror.
These young men, on their arrival in London, came
first to me with letters of introduction from friends of
•mine in America. I was the first person in England
who witnessed some of the manifestations in a private
room, and being quite satisfied of their reality, I got up
the first two seances at the Hanover-square Rooms for
a party of twenty city gentlemen, the majority of
whom agreed at once that it was no delusion of the
senses, nor were the manifestations explainable as a
clever piece of legerdemain; indeed, if the Daven¬
ports were such accomplished conjurors, they must
have been so from their birth, for the same phenomena
were witnessed through their mediumship seventeen
years ago when they were children. I will only speak
of two among many marvellous facts witnessed by
me:—
One was at the residence of Lord Borthwick. On that
occasion Ira Davenport and William Fay were each bound to
a chair within two yards of the company present. It was
intended to show the wonderful feat of Mr. Fay’s coat being
twitched ofE in the dark interval of a few seconds, while his
arms were fast bound behind him. But instead of that Ira
Davenport’s waistcoat came off, and was thrown at my feet,
his coat reniainirtg on, and on examining the waistcoat it was
found to be fully buttoned, with his watch in the pocket, and
the chain suspended and fastened through the buttonhole, just
as he was seen to have worn it ten or fifteen seconds before.
The other instance was at the Hanover-square Booms,
when Professor Taylor, as he was called (who lectured at the
Coliseum against Spiritualism, as long as it paid, but who
since then has become a convert, and is now a proclaimed
Spiritualist), tied Mr. Fay up in a most intricate way, with
a long piece of rope, making many knots, and fastening the
final knot at the back of the chair. It was then sealed by
Colonel Drayson (I think it was he, who is an astronomer,
of high repute in her Majesty’s service at Woolwich, and an
avowed Spiritualist), and in two or three minutes, when the
light was restored, we found Mr. Fay liberated with every
knot removed except the final knot, which, of course, under
ordinary circumstances, must have been the first to be loosened
before the other intermediate knots could be untied. This,
however, the final knot, with the seal intact, remained, and
this is the identical piece which I cut off and carried away,
and which I have had in my possession ever since.
MISS NICHOLE THE MEDIUM.
Miss Nicboll (now Mrs. Guppy) has from the first
period of her Spiritual development, now about four
years ago, exhibited a peculiar phase of mediumship
which is as rare as it is extraordinary.
Flowers and fruits in great profusion, and many other
substances, are invariably brought and presented to the
persons composing the circle, which with her is always
a dark circle—that is, the sitters, after making all
necessary examination of the room—any room, and the
surrounding conditions, are required to remain in total
darkness, with the light restored at intervals to examine
the results.
Those, therefore, who are not content to trust four
out of their five senses, need not seek to know anything
of the great marvels which undoubtedly occur at Mrs.
Guppy’s seances.
As I desire to speak only of such evidence as I
have obtained by personal experience, I refrain from re¬
peating statements which have been made to me by
witnesses who are as competent and as reliable as I am,
of what they have witnessed recently at various seances
with Mrs. Guppy and Miss Neyland, a young medium
who generally sits with Mrs. Guppy, and who is
rapidly developing, I am told, as a seer and a very
powerful medium for that phase called physical
manifestations, which is the most useful, as it is the
most convincing to the uninitiated; and as Miss Neyland
has, I am happy to say, decided to make it her pro¬
fession, all can avail themselves of her services by
making an appointment with her; she resides with
Mrs. Guppy. I had many seances with Miss Nicholl before
she was married, at the houses of different friends,
never at her own house, where, I believe, the most
remarkable phenomena occurred.
I will describe the occurrences at one seance only,
which convinced me of the marvellous power and intel¬
ligence which the spirits who manifest- through Mrs.
Guppy display:—
I was invited to the late Mrs. Houghton’s residence, with
whom her daughter, Miss Houghton (who is here present),
lived; they, with Mrs. Pearson, Mr. John Tawse, a retired
East Indian merchant, Mrs. Tawse, Miss Nicholl, and myself,
composed the circle. The Houghtons always commenced
their seances with prayer, and then sat quietly awaiting what¬
ever the spirits chose to do. I had not been accustomed to sit
quietly, but rather to ask questions of the invisibles to induce
them to do what / required, instead of what they chose.
On that occasion we sat for a quarter of an hour in dark¬
ness, without obtaining a sound, and growing impatient I
begged Mrs. Houghton to let me conduct the seance in my
way ; but she objected, and I was obliged to submit. We sat
another quarter of an hour without obtaining a manifestation
of any kind.
I then appealed again to Mrs. Houghton, telling her that
the only interest I now had in coming to a seance was that I
might obtain something out of the ordinary routine, which I
could carry away, and tell to others. She at length consented,
and I at once asked if there were any spirits present ? to
which three raps were made in response, meaning yes ! I
then said I suppose that you are prepared to bring us fresh
flowers as usual ? to which the response was again yes ! Then
I said I don’t want any flowers, and I will thank you not to
bring us any ; but bring us fruit instead, will you ? Answer,
yes 1 Then bring me, if you please, French plums. In less than
a minute two French plums, remarkably fresh, and of fine
quality, were placed in my hand. Mr. Tawse asked for almonds,
and got them; Mrs. Tawse for raisins ; Mrs. Pearson for a
lemon ; and each obtained what each had asked for. I was
assured that no French plums, nor almonds and raisins, were
in the house, and if there had been, it would have made no
difference to me in the test I was making, for up to the
moment of making my request I had not thought of French
plums, and therefore I need hardly say the medium could not
have known my object. This is the fruit I obtained on that
evening, somewhat shrivelled by time, having been in my
possession more than three years.
We then, each of us, were sprinkled profusely with a per¬
fume which we each had asked for. Essence of bouquet,
lavender, and verbena, were three of the scents.
I was satisfied, and nothing can disturb my conviction of
the complete intelligence and power, independent of any
human being, which the spirits exercised at that seance.
Since then, the fruit manifestations have been, I under¬
stand, quite as common as flowers ; and the recent manifesta¬
tions of this character, both, as to size and the variety of fruits
which have been brought to those composing the circle, far
transcend in wonder anything in my experience. It must be
understood that when these material substances are brought
by the invisibles, the doors and windows are fast-closed, and
no ordinary means left of entering the room.
This brief sketch of Miss Nicholl and her mediumship
would be incomplete without introducing an episode,
which carries with it a moral; and you will, perhaps,
bear with me, whilst I tell the story in my own way:—
An independent gentleman of large experience, thoroughly
materialistic in his views, wrote a book, the title of which was
to have been, Light, Instinct, and Intellect. He has an inti¬
mate friend, Mr. James Wason, an eminent solicitor, residing
in Liverpool, with whom in early life, say forty years ago, our
author spent much of his time, and who joined with him in
his war against the Bible and a belief in a life hereafter.
Mr. Wason is also a friend of mine of twenty-five years
standing, and about ten or twelve years ago I had the happi¬
ness of making him a convert to Spiritualism, under circum¬
stances peculiarly interesting, of which, however, it is not my
purpose now to speak.
Meeting with his friend Wason, after a long absence in
India, our author was told by him of his changed views and
of his experiences in Spiritualism, and he replied, “ I think the
best thing you can do is to go to some highly respectable lunatic
asylum and state your belief, which will entitle you to imme¬
diate admission,” but Mr. Wason would not be satisfied until
he had brought his old friend to witness some of the marvels
of which he had spoken, and after some difficulty he accom¬
plished it. “ Whatever subject was talked of,” says our author,
“ seemed secondary to him : in short, there was no peace till I
went with him to see those mediums.” Our author, however,
was not at all impressed by what he saw ; he was convinced
they were cheats, and he ridiculed the whole affair, lamenting
to think that this was the man who before they had parted
years ago, was, as he expressed it, always what might be
termed a very materialistic character, such as might be ex¬
pressed in the words, “ I believe what I see, and I am not to
be gammoned by any nonsense.”
Our author, notwithstanding his regrets, gained something,
as he thought, by contemplating the strange condition of his
friend Wason’s mind, and he sat down at once to add another
chapter to his book with the heading, “ What is Belief,” in
which he says :—“ Belief is of all sorts, and shades, and quanti¬
ties, dependent on a thousand circumstances.
“ General belief we use every hour in the day. When we
read the newspapers, we admit the evidence at once, as we do
also in most of the minor affairs of life. But it is when some¬
thing weighty affecting our happiness, or well-being, is pre¬
sented to us that the question of belief becomes more intricate.
Perhaps we believe because Dr. Johnson tells us it is so. Then
it is not really we who believe, but Dr. Johnson who believes,
and we are only looking-glasses who reflect the image Doctor
Johnson holds up before us ; and if next day Doctor Jamieson
holds up a stronger image before our minds, our belief in Dr.
Johnson fades away, and we reflect Dr. Jamieson’s belief. Or
perhaps Dr. Johnson changes his opinion, and then we poor
looking-glasses are very indignant with him, and feel ourselves
at sea without a compass.
“ Belief is not certainty, even although a person may say,
‘ I have not the slightest doubt on the subject.’ That expres¬
sion only means, ‘ The evidence is so strong that I admit the
fact.’ But it does not amount to bona-fide positive certainty.
“ The action of the mind, if influenced only by the facts
presented to it, is easy, and may be termed agreeable ; but it
becomes disagreeable when extraneous authority is pressed
into the service to induce and compel a belief repugnant to
reason, and contrary to the known laws of nature.
“ When my friend W puts the weight of his truthfulness
in the scale, and insists that he feels affronted because I do
not believe these strange things, I say he is wrong, and that
he ought to carry moving and talking table always
about with him, as organ boys carry monkeys—otherwise it is
the positive duty of every person, in the interests of society at
large, to disbelieve every portion of such statements as are not
capable of proof anywhere and everywhere; because, when
once the mind is induced to open its doors and admit one
absurdity, the door remains open to a hundred others. Ke-
spectable-people say they have seen spirits;.. . the worst
of such nonsense is that numbers of very respectable well-
educated people believe it, and numbers of others, influenced
by their respectability, are frightened, and know not what to
believe.”
With this celebrated chapter our author closed his now
celebrated book, and after writing a very amusing preface
in the same tone and temper, it was sent to the press, in the
full confidence no doubt that it was a book above the
common order of literary productions, containing impregnable
scientific truths for all times.
But strange to say, before it was out of the printer’s
hands, ‘ a change came o’er the spirit of his dreams,' and he
forthwith stopped the press, until he should consider how
best to relieve himself from the dilemma in which he had
suddenly been involved by that unfortunate chapter—“ What
is belief ? ” Strange things were positively taking place at
his own house, and through a medium whom he could not
doubt. Chairs and tables moved about, and material objects
were carried out of the room and hidden in a very mysterious
way. What was to be done ? The case, as put by himself of
Dr. Johnson changing his opinion, came home with a point.
Our author, however was equal to the occasion. He is an
earnest, honest man, as you have seen, and a thinker ; and
after he was now satisfied that there was neither trickery nor
delusion in the physical manifestations which he repeatedly
witnessed at his own house, he set to work to find a solu¬
tion—spirit, of course, was out of the question—some one of
the half-million laws of nature, as Professor De Morgan sug¬
gests, “ about which no one knows anything ”—must be the
cause.
First he thought it would be only fair to read what the
Spiritualists had to say in support of their “ nonsense,” and he
accordingly, with some impatience, read through eight works.
“ Thank God ! ” he writes to a friend—“ thank God, as people
say, I have done reading about spirits. I have read the
following works,” which he enumerates, “ 2,894 pages* which,
I think, is pretty well; and I have seen as much, or more,
about it at home, as all these books put together contain. I
have seen a table move totally alone, and a chair move totally
alone—move just as you see a leaf carried along by the wind
on a turnpike road, and I have had reasonable conversations
with Mary Jane whenever I please ; but I have neither seen nor
heard anything to convince me, in the slightest degree, that
Mary Jane is the spirit of a deceased person. It is only a
hitherto unexplained phenomenon of nature, which, until
chemists and scientific men analyse, will be made use of to
get money from the many.”
Now came the question : what is this power which issues
from the human body which, among other things, gives motive
power to inert substances ? I cannot follow the author in his
very strange and possibly reasonable philosophy from a
materialist’s point of view ; but he is an amateur chemist, and
he makes it out that “ Man is a condensation of gases and
vapours,” and “ that these vapours (which Beichenbach calls
odylic) emanate from certain persons, who appear to have
phosphorus in excess in the system, they form a positively
living, thinking, acting body of material vapour, able to
move a heavy table, and to carry on a conversation, etc.'\
When he had completed his ingenious and curious
speculations, he published the whole in an appendix to his
book, the title of which he changed, instead of Lighti Instinct
and Intellect, adopted a less dignified title, and called it
Mary Jane; or. Spiritualism Chemically Explained, And
those who are in search of a solution against the spirit theory
might be inclined to accept him as an authority, but for a
very important fact, which (in giving the author’s name to you
in strict confidence) I am about to reveal. After the book was
published, and fairly in the hands of the public, he had other
evidences which overturned his philosophy for the second time.
134
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1871.
The Davenports went to Paris, and resided with him for
some months, and with the opportunities thus afforded
through their marvellous exhibition of spirit power, our
author's education was completed, and he became a Spirit¬
ualist. On his return to England, he made the acquaintance
of Miss Nicholl, and ultimately made her his wife ; and now,
through her mediumship, which increases in wonder, Mr.
Samuel Guppy, the author of Maty Jane, is no doubt prepared
to meet all comers, and to do battle in defence of Spiritualism,
and is now in his turn “ entitled to immediate admission to a
respectable lunatic asylum.”
SIRS. ESISIA HARDINGE.
I will close this part of my subject by giving a few
more particulars about remarkable mediums:—
Mrs. Emma Hardinge’s arrival in England, in 1865, intro¬
duced a new phase of Spiritualism.
That lady, who is an inspirational speaker, made her first
address from this platform, the subject being selected by the
audience, and for an hour and a-half, without break or falter,
this untrained woman, in the ordinary sense, poured forth and
expounded the subject of her discourse in the most eloquent
manner possible.
Mrs. Hqrdinge claims to be influenced by spirits, some of
whom she recognises, and I believe in the claim : for in no
other way can I reasonably account for the readiness and ease
with which she takes up and dilates without a moments pre¬
paration upon any and every subject presented to her. I
know that some of my scientific friends- deny the sound¬
ness of her expositions, but that is not her fault, and
does not detract from the marvel that is presented in
her person. If she be influenced by the spirits of departed
men, they may not have belonged to the modern schools of
science, which have thrown aside, as in chemistry, for in¬
stance, many of the teachings received as truths at the com¬
mencement of the present century; but who, nevertheless, may
have been the great lights—the Earaday’s and Tyndall’s—of
their day, with a great deal more to learn not “ dreamt of in
their philosophy.” Mrs. Hardinge, who is an English woman,
has again returned to London, and during the last few weeks
she has delivered several orations of remarkable eloquence in
this hall; she is now engaged in holding Sunday evening
services (with which I am not identified) at the Cleveland
Assembly Rooms, near Fitzroy-square, where those who go to
hear her discourses will, I am sure, be enlightened in many
ways, whether they agree with all her teachings or not.”
MRS. EVERITT, THE MEDIUM.
Mrs. Everitt, the wife of Mr. Thomas Everitt, a highly
respectable tradesman, residing in London, is well-known as
a spirit-medium. It is two or three years since I had the
privilege of attending one of their private circles, when
I witnessed some manifestations sufficiently marked, but
much of the same character as I have already described with
other mediums. Since that time, however, Mrs. Everitt’s
power has, I am told, greatly developed. Moving of ponder¬
able bodies, chairs, tables, and other heavy pieces of furniture
without human contact, and in a well-lighted room, are of
very common occurrence. But the most striking manifesta¬
tions which occur in this lady’s presence, are those of flashing
lights of various colours and size, and direct writing. Sheets
of paper, previously marked for identification, are frequently
filled with philosophical remarks in the space of a few seconds.
Some of these sheets have contained upwards of one hundred
words, which were written in less than one minute.
The sitters, who are for this manifestation always in the
dark during the process of writing, hear the pencil moving
over the paper with lightning rapidity.
The facts on the whole, connected with Mrs. Everitt’s
mediumship, are extremely interesting, and would, if necessary,
be attested by the signatures of more than a hundred re¬
spectable witnesses resident in London.
DR. J. R. NEWTON, THE HEALER..
Of Dr. J. R. Newton, the eminent . healer, by whose
■recent visit to this country another phase of mediumship was
brought to our notice, I need only say, that I and many others
had ample evidence that he possessed the 'great gift 'of
healing. Numerous well attested cases are to be found
in London where the blind have been restored to
sight; tumours have been instantly removed; and the
lame have been made to walk. The cases in all instances,
according to the testimony of the sufferers, had been of long
standing, and had baffled the ordinary treatment of medical
science. But whatever may be thought of his gift, of Dr.
Newton himself it may be truly said, that he is an un¬
worldly, simple-minded, kind hearted philanthropist, who
bas done a great work, and has made many sacrifices in
the cause of suffering humanity.
Now I have presented to you, as briefly as it is
possible in justice to this most important subject, a
number of facts, together with the reasoning and testi-
mony of many intelligent Englishmen, all more or less
known to fame, who, after diligent and serious investi-
.gation, proclaim their convictions of the truth of
^Spiritualism and the reality of the phenomena. Is it
possible to push aside such a mass of evidence, and
-treat such men as dreamers and fanatics? Can you
kave stronger cases than those of Dr. Elliotson and
Dr. Eohertson of the folly of condemning and denounc¬
ing before enquiry. It cannot he that you do not wish
to believe; or that you can remain indifferent to the
■subject, whether it be a truth or not! For my part,
though I have long made up my own mind that spirit
is the only solution that covers the manifold phases
which are being developed hourly,'! do not, and never
have insisted, that others should accept that belief.
All that I am concerned in is, to establish, beyond
cavil, that marvellous manifestations, apparently in
violation of natural laws, do occur, and that we, who
believe in them, are under no delusion.
That being once acknowledged by the master minds,
whose dictum rules society, I shall be content to wait
the issue, and ready at any moment to change my con-
. victions if it can be shown that I have been hugging
an untenable belief. So far, and I have been a diligent
student, no explanation that has been offered—no
theory that has been put forward, covers the facts
which have been witnessed by tens of thousands in this
country, and I believe by millions in America, where I
myself went ten years ago for the express purpose of
fortifying my judgment. I put aside at once, and
treat with profound contempt, all the childish nonsense
that has been written about the tricks of conjurors, as
explaining the manifestations of which we speak, and I
warn those who have been misled by pretended expo¬
sures practised upon their credulity by another class of
men, to^put no faith in them. They are mediums ; but
from very base and worldly motives, choose to deny it.
There have been, however, various theories put for¬
ward in opposition to the spirit-theory, which are
entitled to the most respectful consideration. That of
Dr. Eogers, which he propounded several years ago, is
one. He embodied his ideas in an elaborate work
entitled The Philosophy of Mysterious Ayents, in which
he refers the whole body of phenomena, physical and
mental, to a cerebral action through the medium of
“ a physical force associated with the human organism,”
which agent, it is suggested, may be the od or odic force
of Heichenbach. Professor Mahan, Dr. Samson, Mr.
Bray, and others of the No-Spirit theory, have merely
amplified Dr. Rogers’ theory. None of these opponents,
however, descend to the feeble position of denying the
facts. “ We admit the facts,” says Professor Mahan,
“ for the all-adequate reason that, after careful enquiry,
we have been led to the conclusion that they are real; ”
and he adds : “ We think that no candid enquirer, who
carefully investigates, can come to any other conclusion.”
And I may add that had these intelligent and candid
men but waited awhile, they never would have published
their theories, for the “ all-adequate reason ” that they
do not meet the facts which have been since developed;
and Reichenbach himself disclaims for the force which
he discovered all such power as these writers attribute
to it.
I will conclude by repeating a few words from an
article written by myself four years ago, which, in the
main, are applicable to the present time. I said :—
I have been recently assured by one of our leading jour¬
nalists that Spiritualism finds favour at length with many
literary and scientific men in this country; but, unfortunately,
we do not see them; we have not yet heard their voices;
they are silent when most needed. It is known that almost
every journal published in the Metropolis has one or more
members of its staff who are thoroughgoing believers in Spiri¬
tualism ; and yet ‘if any public emergency arises, they are
dumb, and stand by whilst their associates are permitted to
wield the pen, to misrepresent the truth, to mislead the
public, and to encourage every charlatan in his pretended
exposure of Spiritual phenomena.
How long is this state of things to last ? ” I have asked of
one who views with sorrow the position taken by certain
members of his craft. “ Ah,” he replied, “if you knew as
much of the press as I do, you would know that its tone may
be changed in a day; and I think the day is not far distant
when Spiritualism will find open advocates in the leading
journals of this country.”
We must, therefore, I suppose, stretch our patience,
watch and wait, taking consolation, in the meantime, in
the assurance that no honest man, whatever his con¬
dition of mind may be, saint or sceptic, religious or
scientific, who will take the pains to investigate—can
withstand the evidence, and who will not at last feel
abashed at his previous ignorance, and at his folly in so
long standing out against a truth so cheering and
enlightening. It is thus satisfactory to know, despite
all opposition, that Spiritualism is marching on. I
know it is, by the number of enquirers who personally
seek information from me, and others who communicate
their experiences to me. Much that we hear of, how¬
ever, does not exhibit the best side of Spiritualism, and
there is still much that is extremely puzzling even to
the initiated; but all is instructive, ajid most of the
facts deserve to be recorded so that they may be readily
classified by the Wise Men of the future—I say future,
for it is evident that nothing in elucidation of these
mysteries is to be expected from the leading authorities
of the present day (recollect I was speaking four years
ago), who are too deeply committed to the erroneous
theories, and dogmatic assumptions they have already
permitted themselves to promulgate upon this subject.
To the new generation, therefore, of thinking men,
some of whom we know are now at work, we may
hopefully look forward for a fair and candid examina¬
tion of the claims of Spiritualism so soon as the rule of
the savans, who have led the public astray, shall be a
thing of the past.
A very interesting discussion followed the reading of
this paper, and among the speakers were Dr. Lockhardt
Robertson, Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., Dr. Wylde, Mr.
Leighton (of Diverpool), and Mrs. Hardinge. A report
of .this discussion will be published in the next number of
The Spiritual News.
Next Monday (January 16th), the Rev. Dr. Davies, a
minister of the Church of England, will read a paper at the
usual weekly meeting of Spiritualists at the Beethoven
Rooms. The paper is sure to be of good quality, and a
warm discussion is expected.
Sunday evening services in connection with Spiritualism
are held regularly at seven o’clock, at the Cleveland Hall,
Cleveland-street, Fitzroy-square, near the Portland-road-sta-
tion of the Metropolitan Railway. Mrs. Hardinge usually
occupies the platform.
SPIRIT-RAPPING IN JOHN WESLEY’S FAMILY.
IN TEN PARTS.—PART SEVEN.
The following are some more of the letters published
by John Wesley :—
Letter XII.—Miss Susannah Wesley to her brother
Samuel. “ March 27.
“ Dear Brother Wesley,—I should farther satisfy
you concerning the disturbances; but it is needless, be¬
cause my sisters Emilia and Hetty write so particularly
about it. One thing I believe you do not know, that
is, last Sunday, to my father’s no small amazement, his
trencher danced upon the table a pretty while, without
any body’s stirring the table; when, lo ! an adventurous
wretch took it up, and spoiled the sport, for it remained
still for ever after. How glad should I be to talk with
you about it. Send me some news, for we are secluded
from the sight or hearing of any versal thing except
Jeffrey. “ Susannah Wesley.”
A passage in a letter from my Mother to me, dated
March 27,1717,
“ I cannot imagine how you should be so curious
about oUr unwelcome guest. For my part, I am quite
tired with hearing or speaking of it: but if you come
among us, you will find enough to satisfy all your scruples,
and perhaps may hear or see it yourself.
“ S. Wesley.”
A passage in a letter from my sister Emily to Mr. N.
Berry, dated April 1.
“ Tell my brother the sprite • was with us last night,
and heard by many of our family, especially by our maid
and myself. She sat up with drink ; and it came just
at one o’clock, and opened the dining-room door. After
some time it shut again. She saw as well as heard it
both shut and open; then it began to knock as usual.
But I dare write no longer, lest I should hear it.
u Emilia Wesley.”
Mg Mother’s account to Jack.
Aug. 27, 1726.
“ About ten days after Nanny Marshall had heard
unusual groans at the dining-room door, Emily came
and told me that the servants and children had been
several times frightened with strange groans and knock-
ings about' the house. I answered, that the rats John
Maw had frightened from his house, by blowing a horn
there, was come into ours, and ordered that one should
be sent for. Molly was much displeased at it, and said,
if it were anything supernatural, it certainly would be
very angry, and more troublesome. However, the horn
was blown in the garrets; and the effect was, that
whereas before the noises were always in the night, from
this time they were heard at all hours, day and night.
“ Soon after, about seven in the morning, Emily came
and desired me to go into the nursery where I should be
convinced they were not startled at nothing. On my
coming thither, I heard a knocking at the feet, and
quickly after at the head, of the bed. I desired if it
was a spirit, it would answer me ; and knocking several
times with my foot on the ground, with several pauses,
it repeated under the sole of my feet exactly the same
number of strokes, with the very same intervals. Kezzy,
then six or seven years old, said, Let it answer me too,
if it can, and stamping, the same sounds were returned
that she made, many times successively.
“ Upon my looking under the bed something ran out
pretty much like a badger, and seemed to run directly
under Emily’s petticoats, who sat opposite to me on the
other side. I went out; and one or two nights after,
when we were just got to bed, I heard nine strokes,
three by three, on the other side the bed, as if one had
struck violently on a chest with a large stick. Mr.
Wesley leapt up, called Hetty, who alone was up in the
house, and searched every room in the house, but
to no purpose. It continued from this time to knock
and groan frequently at all hours, day and night; only
I earnestly desired it might not disturb me between five
and six in the evening, and there never was any noise
in my room after during that time.
“ At other times, I have often heard it over my
mantle tree ; and once, coming up after dinner, a cradle
seemed to be strongly rocked in my chamber. When I
went in, the sound seemed to be in the nursery. When
I was in the nursery, it seemed in my chamber again.
One night Mr. W. and I were waked by some one run¬
ning down the garret stairs, then down the broad stairs,
then up the narrow ones, then up the garret stairs, then
down again, and so the same round. The rooms trem¬
bled as it passed along, and the doors shook exceedingly,
so that the clattering of the latches was very loud.
“ Mr. W. proposing to rise, I rose with him, and
went down the broad stairs, hand in hand, to light a
candle. Near the foot of them, a large pot of money
seemed to be poured out at my waist, and to run jingling
down my nightgown to my feet. Presently after we
heard the noise as of a vast stone thrown among several
dozen of bottles which lay under the stairs; but upon
our looking, no hurt was done. In the hall the mastiff
met us, crying and striving to get between us. We re¬
turned up into the nursery, where the noise was very
great. The children .were all asleep; but panting,
trembling, and sweating extremely.
“ Shortly after, on Mr. Wesley’s invitation, Mr.
Jax. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
135
Hoole staid a night with us. As we were all sitting
round the fire in the matted chamber, he asked whether
that gentle knocking was it ? I told him yes ; and it
continued the sound, which was much lower than usual.
This was observable, that while we were talking loud in
the same room, the noise, seemingly lower than any of
our voices, was distinctly heard above them all. These
were the most remarkable passages I remember, except
such as were common to all the family.” ■
(totespmi'Dena.
[Great freedom, is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir—For many years I have watched the progress of
Spiritualism with mingled feelings of pleasure and sorrow.
My object in writing now is not to go into the numerous flip¬
pant or false mediumistic manifestations which have occa¬
sioned the latter feelings, although in the outset I think it
well for you to know I am fully alive to them. Possibly for
this very reason, I yield to the wishes of many friends, whom
I highly esteem, in asking you to allow me to record very
briefly an account of two evenings it has been our privilege
to spend, at our own house, with Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, friends
whom we met vis-a-vis for the first time, although well know¬
ing them by repute long ago. Those who know me will
attach some credit to my belief that Mr. and Mrs. Everitt are
truly Christian people, utterly incapable of any attempt at
deception ; and will know also that from the large experience
I have had with men of business and men of the world, of all
shades of character, I am not liable to be deceived myself.
At my wife’s invitation, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt came to our
rural home to stay from Saturday until Monday. My wife and
I are both to some extent writing mediums—and our children
(alluded to in Heaven Opened, by F. J. T.*) are all more or
less seeing mediums ; one, a little fellow of ten years of age,
remarkably so. I mention this now as it will be seen it has an
important bearing in corroborating some parts of the seances
to which I now ask your attention.
On Saturday evening, November 19th, after having during
tea had spirit raps continually upon the table and around the
room, replying intelligently to questions, and endorsing various
parts of our family conversation, we sat down around a heavy
dining-table. Our party comprised Mr. and Mrs. Everitt,
F. J. T., myself, my wife, and four children. Our unseen, but
ever-active spirit-friends, directed us to read the 12th chapter
of 1 Cor., and then to offer a short prayer. Lights were then
put out by their direction, and the cool spirit breeze very soon
was felt by all in the circle ; as also very strong and delicious
perfumes as of violets. Our little boy soon said, “I see a
beautiful spirit with a bowl containing four different coloured
waters! Now she’s throwing some over us and immediately
we discovered a different scent—an aromatic one followed by
others. We sang some little part songs with the children ;
then spirit lights appeared—seen by all. Small pure lights
sprang from the table, rocket-like, leaving a thin trail of light
in their course upwards. Stars floated about the room which
suggested to the children to sing “ Twinkle, twinkle, little
star,” upon commencing which a large blueish one floated
about and twinkled to the song. -At the end we asked for a
greeting for each of the little ones : when a shooting-star
darted from the centre to each little upturned face in turn. A
very faint whisper of a spirit-voice was all we could obtain at
this sitting, so the children, with some little disappointment,
but yet with glad hearts, went to bed. On opening the fold¬
ing-doors into the adjoining room, we found perfumes strong
even there.
After supper we sat again—the five adults only.
After lights and perfumes again in profusion, we heard the
card-board tube, which we had placed in the centre of the
table, tapping against the ceiling. A cooler breeze came, fol¬
lowed by vibration of the table and atmosphere, and suddenly
“John Watt,” addressing F. J. T., said in a clear voice, dif¬
ferent to any human one, and giving me the impression of a
voice without chest force—
“Good evening! ” (F. J. T. started, at which John] said [more softly), “I
thought you were so brave? ”
F. J. T.—“ So I am, but you came so suddenly.”
J. W.—“ I’ll he more careful another time. You have friends here to¬
night. Introduce me.”
Upon this being done we all in turn had a most interesting
conversation for over an hour. During this time one of the
servants came into the adjoining room to make up the fire, and
heard much of what transpired.
J. W.—“ Who’s that in the other room: she might be here ? ”
I asked, then, if the children might come.
“ J. W.—“Better not—it frightens children.”
M. T.—“But ours are accustomed to siances—will you come and talk
to-morrow evening to them for a short time ? ”
J. W.—“I’ll try. It’s getting late—I must go—the tube is rather clumsy!"
We promised a lighter one : and I asked him to touch me
with the tube before he left. John then said, “ Good night,
friends,” and the tube was thrown from above, and hit my
shoulder as requested.
Sunday evening, November 20. All who were present on
the previous evening sat, with the addition of my wife’s sister
and the two servants. I had previously provided paper upon
which to take notes as well as I could in the dark, and from
their help the following is written :—The passages of Scrip¬
ture to which we were directed by the much despised table
raps were remarkable ; viz., Ezekiel, 8th ch., 1 to middle of
3rd verse; 11th ch., half of 1st verse ; and 10th ch., 1st to
4th verse. Our first sitting was rather unsuccessful. Diverse
elements were at work,' which your readers will understand ;
but after perfumes in profusion, and fainter lights than on the
previous evening, John Watt came. His voice was much
weaker, and he commenced speaking with more caution. As
soon as he had established a freedom with the children, and said
one or two funny things to make them laugh, John suddenly
in a loud voice turned to little Nelly, who was laughing, and
said, “ Little Nelly.” She is naturally very shy and timid, and
this was too much for her—to be so addressed by a strange
voice. . She began to cry.
John, turning to F. J. T., said, “ There—I’m sorry, but I
told you so. I must go.” And we broke up the seance, the
little girl's timidity being, however, a powerful proof of the
reality of the voice, and of its being distinct from Mrs.
Everitt’s, with whom she was now on the best terms.
The next sitting, after supper, was the most interesting of
all. It was protracted, and I can but briefly indicate the kind
| Published by J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
of conversation which transpired. Our nurse was the only'
addition to the five first named.
John appeared again after the perfumes and cool breeze,
with a full voice before Mrs. Everitb was entranced ; so that
at first we heard her voice distinct from his, which to me was
very satisfactory.
He first said how sorry he was to have frightened little
Nelly. He was going to give her little spirit-brother’s and
sister’s love, and tell her about them. He told us much of
their happy home together, in a beautiful house situate in a
garden: told us of some spirits with them known only to us,
and not to the medium : spoke of my mother as a very beau¬
tiful spirit; and, at our request, went away for a minute to
See what they were doing, during which time another spirit
came, who always attends John Watt, named “ Znippy.” His
voice and accent were entirely different, and suffused with
playful humour.
John on returning, said that my father and mother were
together, sitting in a beautiful arbour, the seats of which were
covered with crimson velvet. They were clothed with purple
robes lined with white ; his was made of velvet, hers of
satin, their usual evening/dress. In the morning they were
crimson lined with white. They had various dresses for
different times and seasons; and the dresses there were all
made by love—in the Love Society—and were symbolical.
My father was reading. “What book?” John went to see,
and said it was “ The interior meaning of the first took of
John.” We remarked, “ How natural!” and he went on to
tell us that when we reached Heaven all would appear to us
most natural—nothing strange, for in deep sleep we often
visited them, and we had experiences both here and there,
the key to those to follow after.
After some conversation as to sleep, I asked about the
raising of Lazarus, and how it was when he returned to life
he could not—so far as is recorded—give any account of the
scenes he had visited those three days. John said—
“Was he dead? Who said so? The cord of life had never been sun¬
dered ?”
“ He was entranced then ?”
“Yes.”
“If so, he visited your world probably as we do, you say, in deep sleep ?
Why not tell us what he saw ?”
“Because it was not permitted. His entire state was all for a particular
purpose. He never died.”
“ But Christ died ?’’
“ His body died.”
“Then I suppose the body He rose with was a different one—it could do
as you do, and come through material substances.”
“ Matter is nothing to us.”
“But what became of the body ?”
“Part of His material body—the grosser parts, evaporated on the
Cross; the remnant when the linen clothes were left in the sepulchre. The
body He rose with was entirely Spiritual.”
“ Then during those three days a change went on which in our case will
take many years to accomplish ?” ,
“Yes; it was an acceleration of chemical power.”
“You are good chemists, I suppose, in the spirit land ?”
“ Yes—chemistry is no hindrance to us.”
“ How do you manufacture that voice by which you speak now?”
“ I dissipate the materiality around you,and draw you for a time into this
sphere; you help me by conditions, and I do much more by chemicals.”
“ Is darkness necessary ?”
“No, not necessary; we can sometimes speak in the light.”
He tben spoke of the spheres of spirits above and below ns,
we occupying the middle sphere. We were being constantly,
watched over and assisted by our ministering spirits ; and we
in our speech, and a hundred other ways, influenced lower
spirits who cling to us to be assisted to rise: thus teaching,
as we remarked, the vast unconscious influence ever emanating
from us. Much of the above is beyond my comprehension,
for I am no chemist; and in reporting the conversation, as
near as I can remember, I am aware I may have fallen into
error—unintentionally. But,if such conversations are possible
from the spirit land, we may well ask to what golden heights
may we not yet be led.
• John offered up a short prayer to the Father of Spirits in
parting; invoking a blessing and praying for our influence to
be kept pure.
I was silent; and thinking with some degree of perplexity
of what had occurred, and how real and near the spirit-world
is, when we heard rapid but slight tapping on paper, similar
to the dropping of water. Mr. Everitt said, “ That’s some
direct spirit writing”—and counted one, two, three, when
pencil and paper dropped in the centre of the table. When
a light was struck', we found the following message, written
apparently within five seconds—a physical impossibility—
which we preserve as a precious jfift from the spirit world :—
“You seem’to be puzzled at our close proximity, but as regards your
spirits you are living in our world. You only require your material body
to move with in'this your material world. Remove your atmosphere, you
are then present with us; by giving us the conditions we are joined with
you—in fact we make a part of yourselves. We influence you to do and
say things that you believe are from your interior selves. By-and-by we
shall be able to make ourselves visible to you, so that we form part of your
family. You are now the medium of earth and heaven.”
I might have considerably extended this paper, but I fear
I have already, in my first communication, exceeded your
space. Morell Theobald.
Hendon, N.W., Dec. 1870.
P.S.—We have since had a very long message in direct
spirit-writing, of over 400 words, written in five seconds (a
physical impossibility), purporting to come from Newton,
Locke, and Boyle, showing the spirit-world to be to the earth-
world what the soul is to the body—its life.
Spiritualism is beginning to spread in Birmingham
rather more rapidly than it has hitherto done.
The occasional visit of a good physical medium to the
Brixton Society of Spiritualists would much aid the young As-
ciation, which is ndt a very strong one.
Next Thursday evening the St. John’s Association* of
Spiritualists will have a tea-meeting, after which some plat¬
form addresses will be given, and probably a Spiritual com¬
munication through Mr. J. J. Morse, who will be present.
Spiritualism in Kilburn.—The new Spiritual Society
at Kilburn is working very energetically. It holds public
meetings in the Carlton Hall, Carlton-road, every Monday
evening, and it is making its mission widely known by means
of placards, handbills, and the aid of the local newspaper.
The Kilburn Times has treated Spiritualism with unexampled
fairness, and the editor actually thought it his duty to learn
something about the subject, before publishing anything re¬
specting it in his newspaper. If other editors followed his
example, how hampered they would be upon losing their'pre-
sent privilege of inventing facts about Spiritualism while
they write.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
W. M. (Somers-town).—There is no space to spare for such a series
of letters, and it is impossible to say anything about the publica¬
tion of any communication without first seeing it.
Some letters, news, and notices of books, are crowded out this
month, and will, for the most part, be printed in the next number
of The Spiritual News.
MIRACLES.
One of the foremost workers in the Spiritual movement has
written us a private letter, questioning the desirability of
abolishing the words “miracle’’ and “supernatural’’ from
Spiritualistic literature, as recommended in a recent leading
article in this journal. As it is evident that Spiritual mani¬
festations are governed by the fixed laws appertaining to a
higher state' of existence than our own, why should the phe¬
nomena be called miraculous, however astounding they may
appear to be ? The Spiritual world is only an advance on the
animal world, just as the animal world is an advance on tbe
vegetable world, and the vegetable world an advance on the
mineral world. Why should the phenomena lof any one of
these stages of life be called miraculous rather than another ?
And if we now call the phenomena of the Spiritual world
miraculous, what shall we do if in another state of being, we
discover that there are other stages of existence higher than
the Spiritual ? As already stated in these pages, supposing
a vegetable could see and think, it must have been greatly
startled when it saw the first animal, and must have con¬
sidered it a most miraculous kind of vegetable, walking about
with its roots in its stomach. To the savage, the locomotive
and all the applian’ces of civilisation are miraculous ; neither
can we teach him the principles of construction of the steam-
engine, because his brain is not sufficiently advanced to receive
the information. Even so, if we are astounded by the rising
of ponderable bodies in the air without mortal contact, and by’
the passage of solid bodies through brick walls, ought we to
call them miraculous because they are above the level of our
comprehension, and possibly cannot be explained to us ?
Instead of extending these arguments we will tell a story
which shows how an uninformed Turk misled himself, because
he ascribed things above his comprehension to miraculous
causes. We wrote the tale, assisted by a friend, a few years
ago, and it was originally published in The British Journal of
Photography. The following is an abbreviation of the original,
in order to economise space ; but enough is left to clearly
illustrate the points we have’ just raised :—
“ The original of the following letter having been written in the choicest
Arabic, we here present our readers with a translation. Tbe letter is from
Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentlemen now in London on business connected
with the Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, chief of the College
of Howling Dervishes, at Constantinople :—
“Sweet, O Ali! are the moments thus snatched from.the hurry of ex¬
istence, when in the silence of the night I take up my quill to hold sweet
communion with the friend of my youth. Allah is great; so now with
sable fluid, and the quill of a grey goose, I tell thee, O Ali, of my fearful
adventure with the wizards of the crystal cages, in this vast city of the
infidels. May the graves of their fathers be eternally defiled!
“Thou hast heard of the wicked Magi, or worshippers of Are, whom our
holy prophet kicked out from his vast dominions as he would unclean
dogs. A remnant of these unbelieving curs exists here, within the walls of
this unholy city, and gain, it is said, immense sums by taking portraits by
the aid of their incantations. Allah bismallah! It is said they bottle up
sunbeams for this unholy purpose, and the powerful and malignant genii,
Klo Ryne and Sil Yer, are their chief abettors. The wizasds, unlike those
of yore who haunted the dark caverns of the earth, live in glass cages
upon the house-tops.
“ I longed for my portrait to send to thee, O Ali, and the fourteen wives
who mourn because of my absence in the land of the stranger; yet my
infidel friend, Sammi Ben Jones, was long in overcoming my scruples
against visiting these wizards in their crystal cages. However, by his
advice, I walked along the street of Mi Lend, where many wizards, for the
sum of sixpence in infidel money, exercise their unholy incantations. It was
a fine morning. I walked along with the dignity remarkable to my family,
dressed in my best pink breeches, yellow coat, and scarlet turban, wondering
whether I should have to pass through many difficulties before one of the
wizards would allow me to enter his domicile, My fears were soon at rest.
I was forcibly seized, O Ali, by six of the filthy emissaries of these
magicians, who caught hold of my flowing robes, thrust gleaming squares of
crystal beneath my very nose, each pulling me with all his force, and
uttering curses in the barbarian tongue against the others who sought to
force me into their masters’ abode. ‘Allah kerim! ’ I exclaimed, in fainting
accents—‘ these dogs will murder me, and my bones will whiten in the land
of the stranger.’ Suddenly a dragoman in blue came along the path,
uttering the cabalistic word ‘Moovon,’ which I entered afterwards in my
note-book. At the sound of it the miserably-clad giaours each slunk into
the entrance to his employer's den, and contented himself with verbal ad¬
jurations.
“I entered one abode which seemed less repulsive than the rest, and
asked the imp at the door to admit me to the seer, his master. He shouted
upstairs, ‘Olio, eerz anothergui! ’ which I was afterwards told by Sammi
Ben Jones means, ‘Make ready, Omaster! the wise and noble hadji comes!’
Having taken the fatal step into the dark archway, I must confess, O Ali,
my frame shook with terror—my trembling knees refused their office. To
propitiate the evil genii I took my shoes from off my feet at the entrance,
and proceeded along the passage to a flight of stairs, where I prostrated
myself, bowing three times towards Mecca. With faltering steps I trod the
ricketty stairs, and at last stood before the portal of the dread abode, on the
panels of which were inscribed fearful cabalistic signs of mystic import,
and in large red characters the name ‘John Jones,' which, I believe, was the
name of the vile son of Jehanum himself.
“The door opened. The figure of the dread wizard, with a fiendish grin
across his thin face, stood before my awe-struck gaze. Directly he saw me
he opened his eyes and shouted—‘ Ogolly! Omosis! ’ Then he sank into a
seat, his sides shaking with idiotic laughter. He motioned me to a seat in a
chair with no bottom to it, and told me to gaze my hardest at a small
picture nailed to the wall. O Ali, how shall I describe that picture! In our
native land nothing but the eyes of our houris are visible to the stranger;
yet here the women run about wild without any keepers, have even their
necks bare, and are supposed to possess souls. But the one in this picture,
O Ali, stood in a barbarian theatre. She was dressed only in gauze, was
spinning round on one leg like your tame monkey Korac when in the
height of his antics. ‘Allah akbar! ’ said I. What can equal the wicked¬
ness of these Christian dogs! May their fathers' graves be for ever defiled.’
The wizard next fixed the back ,of my neck in an iron instrument, so that I
could not turn away my gaze. ‘ Staffir, Allah! ’ I cried in agony; ‘ the
anguish of the bowstring cannot equal this. I choke! I expire! Shades of
my fathers! the wretched Shacabac will soon die with the throes of suffoca¬
tion, and skate over the bridge A1 Sirat into the paradise of the true believ¬
ers ! ’ I thought my last hour was nigh, especially as I saw the magician hide
his head in a black curtain, as though he wished not to witness my agonies.
He then retired to his secret den, O Ali, muttering accursed incantations,
and came out with a small cabinet constructed of cedar, in which, no doubt,
a wondrous talisman was concealed. He placed this in a kind of cannon
covered with a pall of funeral black, and then he pointed this direful weapon
at my head. My hair stood oh end, my eyes dilated with terror, my parched
tongue clave to the roof of my mouth. He uncovered the opening of the
cannon. Lsprung up with a shriek of terror, the iron instrument of torture
still clinging to my neck, and with outstretched arms implored Allah to
forgive me for entering the unhallowed den of the wizard of the crystal
cage. In this attitude did the evil genii take my portrait.
“The magician retired again to his den, where I heard the sound of
running water; then he returned with a plate of crystal, and showing it to
me made signs of approval, uttering, in a commendatory tone, the words,
‘ Tharz astunner!' But, O Ali, the picture of my friend was ugly in the
extreme. The aspect of abject fright was upon my countenance; stars
were represented bursting above my head; a long-tailed comet streamed
from my nose; whilst my body was spotted all over, yea, even like unto
that of the monkey Korac. No doubt the mighty power of the sun had
copied the evil planetary influences which in that dreadful moment had
threatened me, and were at the time invisible to mortal eye. I carefully tied
the crystal tablet in my turban, handing sixpence to the wizard as I turned
to leave, but with horrid threats he made me pay five shillings, after which
I descended the stairs saddened in spirit. The imp at the door demanded
a fee, upon which I called him the son of a burnt father, and made him
a long speech in the Turkish tongue.
“O Ali! friend of my soul! the night wanes apace. Even as I write the
sun tinges with crimson and gold the light clouds of the east. The winds
of heaven blow gently through my open window, and I think of the time
when I journeyed with thee on the road to Ispahan at the same silent hour.
I like not the turmoil and noise of the busy city, and long for the time when
we shall once more tread together the bowers of A1 Kibar, and hear from
thy learned lips the true doctrines of Islam. My mind is much disturbed bjr
the invisible stars and comets that lurk around me, so on my return we will
lay my crystal portrait before our wisest astrologers to learn what these
mystic signs portend. Fare the well, O Ali! friend of my bosom! Peace
be unto thee and thine house! Mayest thou live long in the land of out-
fathers, and, when thou art called to Paradise, mayest thou receive the
richest fruits of the tree Juba, which produces pomegranates, grapes, and
dates of a taste unknown to mortals 1 “ Al Shacabac.”
136
THE SPIRITUALIST'
Jan. 15, 1871,
: FACTS FOB, NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human, experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept tlbem
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
"believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to. possess very great
weight. : In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
.Chambers, Mr. 0. E. Varley, Dr.; Gully, Mr! and
Mrs/.S. »C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. 0. P. Valley,
C.E.;*F.R.G.S.rM.R.I.
“ I have been' a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer ,by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company. ^ 'J
About eight years' ago, I called on Mr. Home,
■the defendant' in this suit, and stated that I had
mot yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I waa a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully; ■'
' “.He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in. every possible
.way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested, them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
.been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the-subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec-
tricity'And maghetisni, and After having applied me¬
chanical and mental te^ts, -I entertain no doubt Whatever
that tlje ipamfestations which I have myself examined
were n&t due'-’to the op'er&tidh Of any of the "recognised
physical laWs of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions 'above-mentioned’dsome intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
, It also ’came out" in the evidence given at the
trial, tliat Mr. Home Lad been the invited and un¬
paid guesCof'j;th€j Enipei'ta'.-and the Entwefis bf the
, French^tKe ■j^Pdi'btj Em¬
press Dowager; of; Russia, the Grand Duke Obn-
! stantine, th^ King , of Prussia, the .late King', of..
Bavaria, the'Tate King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen b'f HoIland./t* Mr. Home says that all his
life he has ngAer taken a farthing of pay for his
seances: In 'March,1869j the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who fhave long .been investigating the sub¬
ject;:—, .
, “ Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-hohse, iBeekem
ham Alfred'R. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Marji’s-erescenfc,,
•N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, j&wjH
Captain Drayson, R..A., Woolwich; Dr. ,J. M. Gj;ullyf-
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J.’ J.-G;, Wilkinjgn, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, JutelaBtftin
mond-sti’eet, W.C.: S, .C; , Hall, Esq,,. A^hle^ptSIce,'
Victoria-street,iS.W.; Newfoh Cfoslfchd, Esq.; Wuliath
Hoyritt, Esq., The GrChard, Hare-green, jpsbes Surrey;.
•Robert Chambers, Esq.;- St, Andrews. -Edinburgh; il.
ID,'. 4^c&m:;;E^,;.a'Rihitbrey-hbus^jl'l5for.woo.d;; J. G.-
CrawSonh Esq., 52,; Glouoegterrereseent, ,W, ,M.
Wilkinson,••,<®sq., ' .Gakfl'etd,' Kilbum;«Lord Adare, 15, s
•Bpckihgham-gate; The Master' of;LindEjay, Grosyenor-
shpare.”
jKjMrs. De Morgan has written a hook, entitled
Mattel' to Spirit (Longmans),' where she
Ogives mahy interesting particulars, the result of
ten years1 experience in Spiritualism. Professor,
De, Morgan, President of tk© Mathematical. Socipt^;
pf London, in his preface to the buoTqvsays;-.:—" ;
‘.‘ I am perfectly Coft.vihfed.Ithat r-hayij hoth seerft'RJld
foard/ln a manner which shoffiwjaake unbelief
sible, things called spiritual, which -cannot. bi> .jd^n-.by,
a rational being to be ca pable of explahation;bymnpes-
ture, coincidence, or mistake. £>o far I feel the ground
firm under me.” ;
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, P.L,S, JMr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist, Professor Hage, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the" Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused tOi witness spiritual phenomena,
allegirig-that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
•action ” theory explained all the facts. - A friend
wrote to|him,.detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicalile^hy that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible?man, went to 'sapor himself. The
result was f that lie camednto communication with
some -'of« his town'..departed relatives. ", He; then
made mechanical ^'telegraphic machines, ‘ Which
were intelligently "worked '‘by \ spirits while the
.apparatus ”wasSscreenecl ,irc)m‘;.the sight of the1
medium, and he wrote a bbok‘* recording all these
• facts. That’book is now in. the.British Museum
•Library. Judgfe Edmonds, of New York, is another
vety.emjnent' American Spiritualist, who has also
writt^p interesting books on the subject. -Recently,
in England,^Viscount Adare has written a book
"bearing testimbriy to,the truth of Spiritualism, and
' it ha's.a preface by Lord Dunraven. This .book is
! prid^,."f^'!'p^vaJeT'c£n5aIation only, •which is an
•errof in jddgment.^;;,Valuable evidence in favour
• ofr Spiritualism is giyen'by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
! they "witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
; spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
MivW. Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
1mmpublished an article in the Quarterly Journal of
■ Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as. yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870:—
themselves—you will not he surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm und4r me for a very short distance
along the road which youhave^yavelled so: far, j . J, •
“ I was deeply interested "in reading of your experi¬
ments, the mpre so, as I have ..been working in $ similar
direction myself, but'as yet with" scarcely a tangible
result. ' i
“You notice that I admit, freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that" I
shall not hesitate for a moment 'in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, what^vtir ConvictidliB
my investigation leads; me to—whether it«.points^ tbt a.
mepe physical force, .or makes me,. as you predict, a con-:
vert^jp the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my.eqif-
victiohs come in my own way, and if T hold sorheivnat
stubbornly to the lawS^bf conservation of -forcQ pmd.in;
penetrabOity of matter,, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but iSther as a peculiarity^in'my
scientific education. / •/ ‘ i ‘ .
“I have already had many lattersfboth from Spiri-.
tualists arid from leading’men’-bf 'soiencej.saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject; and.‘urging
me to continue the ■invbAtigaition. Tnf-ifttbtsTTiave^Meu-
agreeably surprised to: Arid ej^bouragement from sp.niany
seientifie men, as well ■ as Aympathy from, the good
friends I possess amongst. the -Spiritualists.—Believe J
me, my dear sir, very truly youfs,1' '
jt I. .‘WiLLSfM. Crookes.”
A work entitled Natuve^fy 0. Op
Groom Napier, F.i3r§,; .’(Loriidon, • J^Jia'.',:Cj,rii4en
Hotten, 1870), has. by >the late,Lord
Brougham, in which u^af,. eminent statesman
says :— . ti\.
“There is but one questfflh-Twould ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—Nds^for-amidshthe-varieties of
mind I which divers circurifstances., produce," are found
those who cultivate man’s.highest , faculties ;-rto these
the author addresses himqifli’-. Butaeven in 'the most'
cloudless skies of scepticism^^e'arraad(fi6uft, SlM|nS
bigger than a man’s hand; i®s ModernjSpiritnalisih.”,...
I Signor G. Damiani, a SicuiaiiTgentlenmn^liying
•at Oliftop, has written atpamphletiStillfin print,
in whicli he severely cens'lifhstl’ibfesspr' Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and othe2§yfike!$therh, for refus¬
ing to .investigate'the subje&Sl^rlle'jurther offers;aJ,
reward of 1,000,guineas to ariy*respectable, scien-
Sfcifio’or'*'etlttt£ted men, whoSIfll^htyestigate the
subject and .prove-^tp,. he^ar^ftoippsture.— The-
following are his words’;— 'v' . v’
“ I now offer you twa*challenggjf.A'V e'* WffK m
‘ “First, I challepge you? or eftheriof-ypUi’pr’any^of.;
the public; who, like you, disbeliei'e 'in ,,the.'gemiine cha-.
racter .of-spiritualistic,;phen0mena,Lto.deppsrt'v‘in the
hands’of-.any well-known'Lbndoh'barfker’wh.offi.’yp'u or ‘of ’other forms of' mediumshiji thanTtilts ; or raps'
they may name, thp sum pf/five hundred,. guffieA's-;'apd r mayfmake their appearance.’ Information respect-
I pledge myself to .immediatelyidepqsitik^e same bank j ingothe -many kinds of mediumship will be found
a Hkp..amount,—thp ownershmof «ueh sumroffone thou- i . •«• SZTio, ri•«*. LFIpZ i N *»„«„.•
sand guinkts to' ctepend; upon, niy proving, by evideucm t ui!^s. BrofesSOT De Morgan s. book, Fijmi Mattel
sufficient to estoblish fact in historyt'br in-a’crimmal 1°' w^?W.'*if,,.))Upushed py Longmans and this-iS a
.1. Let the, room be of a„ comfortable,temperature^.but
cool lather than warm—let arrangements be mAde that
nobody shall enter it, and. that there shall hejuo; inter¬
ruption for one-hour during the 'sittiiig-'8f“theroircle.
wet, damp; and foggy father is baid'faMjib production,
bfi-physical phenomena.' jf \ ■
3.2. Let the circle consist of four, flY.e,l'Qr-six individtialk
about the,saine' number of. each, sex. 1 Sit round an*un-
‘covefed wooden tabid, with all” the pah>ui,pvrtiie'hands’
in contact with "its top surface. WHether^the ffiands
AouCh edch'other.or not is. usually of no.importance.
Any ftable will do, just large enough'to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand,from
the table fdr. a'few seconds does no harm, but when one
df'the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the- table it
sometimes, blit not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations,,
* 3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencild and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
►table, to write down any communications that maybe
obtained.
, 4.' People who do not like each other should noiTsit in
We'Stftne circle, for such a want of harmony.tends to
■prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is. not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations? but an
acridTeeling against them is a weakening influence.w •
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well tcr&pgage.
in general conversation or in singing, and it ishest that
neither should he of a frivolous nature. A'-prayerful,"
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to aftrabt a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.-,**^
' 6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling Uke a cool wind sweeping over the hands.,
The .first manifestations will probably he table tiltings or
raps. \ ‘
7. When, motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely,'to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the, table as to an intelligent. beiifjff
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raifs rfreari
“Yes,” one means 11 No,” and-two mean Doubtful,?,
and ask whether the arrangement is understij&d/S, If
three signals be .given in answer, , then say.r'IffffiSpeRk
the letters of the alphabet' slowly, will you signAreVei1^
’time I come to the letten you'.want, aud spell us.quta
message? ” ! Should threwsignals be given, seCtqwork
on the plan proposed, and .'from, this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
;/ 8. Afterwards the question Iffiouid be‘put, •“ Are we;
.sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Prohahly some members of the circle will then be'told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. ’Next-ask, “Who is the
medium?” Whefi. spirits come asserting themselves to
he related or known to anybody present, Well-chosen
.questions should he put to test-the? accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out. of the body have all the virtues
and all’the failings of spirits in the bo<jy.
' Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms;
UMAN NATURE: A Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular An-
tEfrapology.-,, Thgtphil6spphical and seientifle character
ofLthis magazine, and the* marked originality of thought
dSplayed’by ffs 'chief’cofftributors have given it a stand-
in^hrogghAitbhe worid.)y It is eminently UnsectariaU,
ana! fr.ee ir6m fiSrbe<|ar bias f its object .being the dis-
co^ry of fTretfiri.kricej'Gd. pmuffily, or 7s.: per annum,
pqst>free. London’ftJ. Burns, Progressive Library; 15,
Soumampton-ro’w, Bloonjabury-square, Hoiborn, WrO:
wwM . |h| On the’flrst of every month.
THE#TRUT HSEEKER, a Review,”
devoteci* to , the; advocacy , of reverent free
thoiight ' in matterstperta&img to Beligion.” ' Edited by
the',Rev;:-JAPAGEr®fei?BS:^Price Threepence.
London: TrUhnerian®6o!^60?Ratembster-row. Man-
ch^ter:' Idhnson annTa^8oii?Mid John Heywood; and
throughallbooksellei's-imdk'Konts. ,>■ .
ADAMEfrom
Paris)- thej^elobjrat™'l Italian , Composer, and
talented performer, .wishes to give lessons in SINGING,
or on the PIANOFORTEbr ORGAN:Class for Part¬
singing meets at her Ropms, SSfBpi^rssjl-street, Orchard?
street, W., once a week. Terms : One Guinea the Month.
SPIRITUAL SEANCE^Tare l^eld i'every
Friday evening, at 15, Southamptmi-row, Hoiborn,'
W.C., at eight o’clock! ;Mr. J.'JiTitoRSH, Sle'dium. Ad-
missien One Shilling. • • f 1 (■hM . »
“20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“July 18th, 1870.
“ Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased tp receive
your letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
; —diffloulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
or civil court of justice.|M
First—That intelligent communications and“krisVers
to questions put, proeeld from dead and iuqFt nMtter in
a manner inexplicable byiny generajljAreco^SSefilaw
[of nature! .
I “Secondly—That dead anffi ineltiirdRjJei' •'d’cfeifjmave
without ; t^ aid of any mechanicaLOT.' lnmTO;%hemica)
agehev;aii(f'in;deflari?!o':gfan'tll0'iMmi|;mdHstws§wgra^-r’
tation.yWv' **•••*'!“ Jfl
“ Thi|idlyf-:That voices appertaining to no one in thq
flesh arelxearct to speak and hold rational converse with
men.’’ (5 ■. .t ■ . ' ' ; . . fjeut
TA^te.-of twenty-four gentlemenj twelve; to,he chosen
.bej’g -pf ttjib’-^'ehnifeA'iprofeslicmS ‘tiS^'JIiterary^SfenX^to
aeeTde’ whether or hot the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—>4,e., by
witnesses of established; character. A., majority cf
-the twerity--fbur to decide. If the verdiet 'be; that ■these’
facts have not been established,-the Hhousand guineas
aie to:helbrig tb |the; party accepjffig^this .challenge; if
thb Verdiet be; that’ fhese! facts are established!; the thou¬
sand gumbah to-be mine*. 1 ■' '■ : ; • • 1 *' 7'“
, ' “ Secondly—Immediately after the ab'ove':Wager -'being
decided, either way, I off era,like challenge, of, flyejhurit
dred guineas (to be met bn the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the s.econd.,sum1 of, one
thousand guineas to depend Upon the establishment-of
the facts contained in the propositions already given?.
experiments, conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen Whohave decided the previous wager;
the Verdict of the majority to de^idO in this case likewise.
■ In.either case, the N?mie«'lare;.tq,:be conducted in any
;publie: of private buildinlEgpi^bfetjla; jiity I mtiyjselect,
it-n'd'wliieh- iua-y-be available^pr tho- jmtpose.
The result of these dMHMnB^KMp’CeA'' aii?lt;de-
pidadf'tp- be advertiseffi^^SHRn^noua partyj-ikt the
expense d! the. defeased paflyHn; Rll” the Lqndpm daily
papers.
‘ I hope this is plain English.
1 Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, * . . - G. Damiani.
Clifton, Oot. 1,1868..
P.S.—^Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of WestSof England and South Wales District
Bank, Com-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. • Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates'the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less* than
three millions, and ibis' is about the lowest-estimate
that anybody has made, There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities‘ vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions. •
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal^ nori-Smritualists 'should • understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so dp hot know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of ay,individual; but by'com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it 'may in time, be
possible to disepyer in what points they agree, and to sift,
out the unreliable, communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any)r/lore than icexan see them, iiCnd as some
of them are thfts in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory* messages are therefore;, untruthful.
Spirits are of, different religions; consequently their teach¬
ings do riot altogether agree;?there‘isfno‘fm6re uniformity
in the next world than iii'this oheiflt is’the business.of this
journal to report facts, so jve kart in nffspiay xesnqpShle for
the religious, sUenttfic, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits,
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT,CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at:home, among, family
friends and relatives, often gives the; most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the: same time, as. no fully developed,
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures,'hut no accurate statistics
on this point have yet - been • collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings., The following'is a good plan of
action:—
good hobk to" read before trying to start a new
circle.
T1
F
HE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST; .REPOSITORY: has. been RP
moved from .Camberwe51;|6'"Np. 15, Sbuthampton-Tow,
Blop^igbqi:y-Square?jS!^6m',W,.d, am
' There is,ta ^Pu^lismbl-^Offic^ndBhop for.ihe sale.of
Bodks; a CjrculatihgLibrafy-ofaU Workspn Spiritualism.
&c.; a RettdiqgrRoom jmpplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive* PubiiCatidiS rol •the Wqrld; a Drawing-
Roomvfor the special -.use- of Laffies >apd Subscribers^;
Private Rooms. fqnc Seimces,.-Cqmffijttees, MeetipgSjj ifcp!;,
-all i^ofmatioh respecting "the Cause aaatfie '
Progress of events may be obtamed.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time frpimtiiejLihi’ary for bQtnepfirftsal, is 21s, per annum
[ A weil-assortod Stock of Statibnety, -periodicstiis,,^!--
rent Progressive 'Literature,''! Sta,ndi#d-: Wofks, Cheap1
Boolts and Ti'actS;, PJanchettes, Materials’-for Writing
and praiyipg,,Mefiimp3; alsp .Works and Appliances pn
Phrenology! Physiology,.* HealthQ' add Dietetic Rdfprin,
Tetfiperan'ce; y nyffiopathyt ‘tGPymifia^tibd, ’ M^merism, *
-Olairvdyiince, Antht6p'ol6gy,' !fcc:, will nq kept Pn sdle. ;
As the iresponribifitieSrlncugr^d Jn! establishing this
“Home-for. Spiritualism" and'the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor'earnestly solicits‘the kind
'cooperation apd-support;of all who; sympathise with)
the enterprise. Strangers .in London ShOuld at onoe1
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear bf
Lbdgings and get Other useful information. '
’^J..Burns, Progressive Library, 15, SOuthampton-row,
Bwanisbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C ,
SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, pub-
^^Bapshed Monthly!' contains all tfie netf%' of f£k)iri7 -
HHk and psychological articles h, wiite.rs of Ability :
Immisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbbrii- ’
EMALE" MEDICAL SOUlETY.
' Vice-Patrons; ;
- His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Right Honourable; the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G. ;
f redsurCr:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street. E.C.
■nt -Honorary Secretary:
Jaffies Edmunds, Esq!, M.D.
-li fady Secretary:
Mrs. Blahgy. ;
; Bankers-. ^
The London and .County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.’ '
The Female Medical Society is established * for the
following objects':—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated*
women in the pra'ctice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children. .
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
" Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to ladies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly quafifled ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when wed qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine! Eighty-tWo ladies have already availed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, • constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will he
gladly received.
Lady subseribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be'interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operatiohs of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
. Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
/"A ARON FRANKLfN^’RE^tVER OF
-JA. BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND'WDEHI^BATORiOF
-NATURE, Museums anti ' privatfe . collections .attended;
British and foreign birds.’-skiriS, stagfeieadj,Tax's heads;
.shells, and corajs in great-variety'. ;TkeiSpirmiiUist and
^kindred periodicals kept: qii skle. -‘EStAfilfblfed :i847.
KAAron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birminlffiiin.
A
COMPLETE Set of 1 SPIRITUAL
MAGAZINES for SALE, besides s’evteral Odd
Volumes,s'
HEYWOOD AND CO., 335,’STRAND, W.C'!
-j> iw»- ■ * " 41) *»».«. «t '4pk»"'*
Where also may be.obtajned Spiritual Magazme; Human
Hplupe^fiaybreak,’^mdrtthe SPifiituALisr on, d8y'‘ofc:
Publication?»Wholesstle’add Retail:-Mjr: w
7'he only Cheap Weekly HorticutturaitJournalf , ;
• 2d. Weekly;‘and in*M6nihly?Paris, lOd."'* - ;
The; gardener’s'' magazine for
'I AmatemVCultivators, Collector's, land Exhibitors
of. Plants, ‘Flowers and Fruits; for Gentlemen’s Gar¬
deners, Fiqrjsts, Nurserymen; and Seedsmen; .fqr. Na!
.turalists, Bptanists, Bee-keepers!*-and Lovers ‘of. tjie
Country. Conducted by ShiRleY Hibberd, ‘'Esq.,'
F.R.H.S.
; London?; E;W--A.llen!,Ti, Aye ^aria-lane, E.C.
And by Order of all Booksellers afad, Newsagents In
.Town and Country. . - / . ; : W i
H;EAYl£&BOPL^B*~or; ^E|SAGES
| ' fori tl{e ‘ BeREAVElf fforn'orfr’ LI'ntfir’cWES
IN GLORY. ^Through the mediumship of F.’JJT. With
observations by Mrs. De Morgan. In neat clotfi, Is. In
enamel wrapper, 6d.r London: J. BURNS, 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, Bloomsbury, W!C.
URNISHED1
LET,
F
enquirer into Spiritualism preferred as a tenant: Terins
10s. per week, including lighting and attendance. Apply
to, T. Rlyton, 7L NavaridO-road, Dalst6n, E. *
T1
ItE. BRllTON. SOCIETY OF BPIRIr
TUALISTS wifl in future meet at 98, .Lothian-
road, North Brixton. The next Meeting .of- the -SSeiety
will takeipjace on Thnraday, December 2Ald,'at half-past
SeVen o’Clock. ■ ' ; , , , i .
ASOCIAL TEA MEETING in connpctaon
I with the St. John’s Association of Spintnalists
will be. held .at the Temperance Hail, 7,'Corporation-
row, Clerkenwell, on ;Thursday evening, the 19th'inst.;
Tea to be on the-table at >6 o’clock. Tickets, pricefid.
each, may be obtained of .Mr; Steele, 36, Great iStitton-
stifeiet, until the 16th inst The Doors will be open free
at 8 o’clock, wheri several speakers will addtesfU the.
meetiz^.
"XTO. Tke Spiiutualist is from be-
•ajaL' ^inniHg'tq.-end a compact mass of good evidence
thaj the facts of, Spiritualism arb true. It contains a
‘riiahjifafy Aft, Ske'Yjiden.ce given before the Dialectical
Soc5e% by ty-finty witnesses- of eminenee and ability; it
also gives the testhribny of respectable uon-Spirituaiists;
tfierefore.-it is .a Yaluable publication 'to pkuSe to the
hands of non-SpIritualists, and should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers .of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out 6f prtot flfsi!
and should he ordered while they are still obtainable by
those .who wish tp preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept oh hand for the benefit of
noh-Spiritualists, but later numbers should tie retained to
the possession of the early friends, of the movement,
before they become scarce arid unobtainable. Covers
with stringed hacks, to : keep copies .clean till required
for'biiiding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. W. . ALLen, Ave. MarMahe, E.G.;" dr J.
Burns, 15, ■ Southamptohirbwi Hoiborn, W.C.
mHE SPIRITUAL NEWS:— The last
1 ’ number oi-The Spiritual News contains:—A Won¬
derful Invention by Mr. C. F. Yarley.—The Meetings at
the Beethoven Rooms.—Spiritualism‘ in Kilbum.—The
Brixten Society of Spiritualists.—The Mesmeric Infir¬
mary.—The carriage of Substances, by Spirits.— The
Christian Spiritualist — Religion and iMiracles. — The
Dialectical Society. — The Conservatory of Death.—
Spiritualism in Norwood.—The Members of Spiritual
Societies.-—The Process called “Death." — Spiritual
Symbolism.—New Spiritualistic Societies. Price One
Penny. London: E. W.,Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lahe, E.C.
intents*
The Rise and Progress of Spiritualism in England
The Literature of Spiritualism ... ... ...
Spiritual Mediums ...     ,...
Spiritualism and the Medical Profession ’
Extraordinary Spiritual Manifestations : ...
An Interesting Incident   ....... .. .
The Davenport Brothers  .... ... ...
Miss Nicholl, the Medium ... ... ... ...
Mrs. Emma Hardinge ... ... ... ... ...
Mrs. Everitt, the Medium - ... ... ... ...
Dr. J. R. Newton, the Healer  ...
Spirit-Rapping in John Wesley’s Family.—Part VII. 134
Correspondence :—Spiritual Manifestations 135
Miracles... i;. •... ... ... '..■V  .......  135
Spiritualism'in Kilbum ...’ ,..   .: ...   135
Answers to Correspondents   ... ... ... 136
129
129
130
181
132
133
133
133
134
134
134
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Priliting Works, PullwoOd’s Rents,
High ■ Hoiborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-ahove-
Bar and St George the Martyr, Londqn, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
