.AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
'[BEGUSTEEED fob TKANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
» No. 163.—(Vol. VII.—No. 15.) LONDON: OCTOBER 8,1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
i„A]]an Kardec’s Spirits' Book ...  i.   169
A Seance with Mr. Wallis—An Inspirational Prayer—Spirit Identity
•jVj- —The Story of a Life—The Prayer of a Savage—Beincarnation—
Miscellaneous Subjects—The Nature of Memory   171
Mr. Morse’s American ExperiencesA Spiritualists’ Camp Meeting 173
. Correspondence : —Beincarnation—The Editor of the Revue Spirite on
' r; Allan Kardec—Healing Mediumship—Spiritual Phenomena and
Conjurors       ... ... 174
: Provincial News:—Newcastle, A Test Seance, Newcastle Spiritualist
.;*1^ Society, Seance at Mr. Petty’s—Leicester, The Progress of Spirit-
> ualism in Leicester—Birmingham, Extraordinary Physical Mani-
« festations in Birmingham—Liverpool, Spiritualism and Methodism
—Chester-le-Street—Btadtowm, Spiritnatism. in Blackburn...   178
'•Bjjguet’s Confession   ... ... ...     180
Paragraphs:—A Problem, 172; Passed to Spirit Life,174; Mrs. Kerns’
teri Mediumship, 174; Sunday Services at the Cavendish Booms,
fe1 174; A Present to the National Association, 174; The Belgian
O-si: Spiritist Congress, 180; National Association Seance   180
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUEES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, pin., at Mr. Cogman’s ^Lecture Booms, IS, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
' 38, GBEAT BUSSELL-SBEET, BLOOMSBUBY,
RE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets,. 6s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance- room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITU A LI STS.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will be held in London^ at 38, Great Russell-street, W.C., Jrom the 3rd
to the 5th oj November.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
SouthamptOn-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four phr Cant. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
r from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet ccntainiug full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FEAN CIS EAVENSOEOFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published op
t the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Eue de la CathfSdrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
fUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
ondfi par Allan Kardeo, appears on the 1st of
psveholoeiques.
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
General Programme.
Wednesday, November 3.—Opening Soiree—at the Cavendish Booms, for
the benefit of Mr. Morse. Hours from 6.30 to 10.30.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Second
Session, 7.30.
Friday, November 5.—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects for Papers.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism as a Religious
Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
6. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—its objects and
interests.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited. •
All essays to be sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-stjreet, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to be had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Further particulars in futurfe advertisements.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
? it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
w
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SIMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on pplicatiou.
BY ALLAN KARDEO. '
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 6Jd.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Rnssell-street, London W.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence. <
The spiritual magazine, edited by george
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commences in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-row, E.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 8, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Q-erald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Q-regory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, j. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.O.
Bamsay, Mrs.,46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin B, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finohley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 206, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town,' Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Bev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, B., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T.. 28, Portland-place, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, B., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
FWz-Gerald, Desmond G„ M.S. TeL E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fit*-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.TF.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Bye-terrace, Peckham Bye, S.E.
Gale, Bichard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Bobert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Oobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds. .
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-pavk, S.E.
-Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey. Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-sti eet, W.
James, Oapt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.LO.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, ,W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., Ay Isham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Bichmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, O. T., M.B.C.S., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Begent’s-pk. N.W.
Pearce, Bichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Bogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Bogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A, LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Bev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
SnelUng, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. B., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.O.
' Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, B. M., M.D., &c., 26, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal!, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Oarlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. PEmpereur de Bussie, Nieder Walluf on the Bhine,
near Wiesbaden,
Ahmed Bassim Pacha, Khan de Bassim Pacha, h Bahdjd Capoussou, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschaoh, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.*
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holtnfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ghamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris-
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles. Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Bue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bailway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York
U.S.A.
A. J. Biko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University
Germany.
W. Lindesay Eichardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor 0. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 85, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Eussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Eace-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Bue d’Anieres, Paris.
Bev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussfce St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Bue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Bue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Bue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Bich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Bue St. Honors, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grtinhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57. Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Eue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, ia at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMEBIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALEB, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms fijom 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 69, Finborough-road, Bedcliffe-garden t, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
BUBBEB, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Bobert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W.' To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States, on a lecturing tour.
He will return to England by the 20th October next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course,
’Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative [Mesmerism (30 Years Established), attends patients
daily’, from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
MRS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STBEET, CHALK FABM-BOAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seauces on Tuesdays, at
7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. (id. Previous
appointments should be made for private seances.
Jl ]|£turtt xi| Jrxrjrm tmtt ufj
VOXilljVlE ^EVEjNf. J^fUjVIBEE FIFTEEJ^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8th, 1878.
Cjj* Spniwaiist
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-orown
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
for
  I    ! |  _ ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended perioas.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London ; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist ’’ will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pul -
lUhing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
**“ The Spiritualist ” may bo had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., which may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post-
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research: and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct, it is intended to include Spi¬
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amdunt of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Fribnds wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application,
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
Published weekly, price twopence.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
JL Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but lias, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.:
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperiol Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe t; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “Lifeof Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.: tbe Rev.O. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C. Hall,F.8.A.: Mr. H.D.
Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze ; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
ALLAN KARDEG’S “ SPIRITS’ BOOK.”
Opinions relating to reincarnation, which have struck
root among such a' large number of intelligent and
conscientious Spiritualists in France, are entitled to
most careful and respectful attention, and the subject
is all the more serious because of the attempt to in¬
troduce the doctrine into this country, by the recent
publication *of Allan Kardec’s Spirits' Booh in the
English language. Miss Blackwell is right in saying
that the work should be judged only upon its own
merits, without bringing in any side issues or party
scandals. Whether Allan Kardeo ever had anything
to do with the Jesuits or not is beside the question so
long as he moots a sound philosophy; moreover, we
have no hesitation in saying that the book contains in¬
ternal evidence that it is written conscientiously, and
that the advocates of the doctrine are, at much self-
sacrifice, trying to introduce it into England in the
belief that its tenets are calculated to benefit mankind
at large. "We admit that the Spirits' Booh ought to bo
reviewed upon its own merits, and that no side issues
should he dragged in, so, after studying the work, and
after having had the advantage of many conversations
on the subject with the chief advocate in England of
Allan Kardec’s doctrine, the task is now undertaken,
after long and deliberate consideration, of criticising
the book upon its own merits.
The chief feature of the method of argument in the
book is, that it is exactly the reverse of ordinary
scientific procedure in dealing with any truths new or
old. A scientific thinker, lecturer, or writer, first
collects a great mass of facts and has fierce battles with
opponents over nearly every one of those facts, so that
a certain number only pass through the fire, and are
admitted both by friend and foe to he true and
unanswerable. After this preliminary work, which
may occupy the time of half a generation, a very
few conclusions are drawn from these indisputable
facts, which it is impossible to deny. Allan
Kardec, in his hook, reverses this process. He gives us
more than 400 pages of closely-printed assertions, with
scarcely a solitary fact to prove any one of them, and
the few facts he does mention are open to grave ques¬
tion in the matter of reliability. Thus the Spirits' Booh
is pre-eminently a theological and not a scientific work;
its readers must accept its statements on the ground of
authority, or because in their own minds they think
that it explains certain problems of life which had
never been so clearly elucidated on any other hypothesis.
Eor instance, they may think that a second career upon
earth, accumulating fresh experiences, is a more
rational and just future for man than an inane heaven
or a merciless hell. They may also think that, in ac¬
cordance with the utilitarian principles permeating
God’s universe, men should not quit this earth until
they have exhausted all its possibilities; that is to say,
until they have gained all the experience which earth
life is capable of giving. But all this, whether it be
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
considered alluring or not, is apart from the question of
the actual truth or error of the doctrine. The Ptolemaic
system of astronomy, which assumed the earth to he a
flat plain, worked well for a long time, and while it
was in vogue even the motions of the stars were accu¬
rately ascertained and could he predicted, just as if the
theory were a true one. In those days it must, there¬
fore, have seemed unanswerable, yet because its facts
were wrong, it fell to the ground when more know¬
ledge was gained by men. There is a serious re¬
sponsibility in mooting any new doctrine on insuf¬
ficient grounds. At the present time there are
many persons who have been trained in narrow¬
minded theological sects, and late in life have
discovered the teachings stamped upon their minds
from their youth upwards, to be in some respects at
variance with the truths of nature. The result has
been the deepest affliction, heart-troubles which prey
upon their minds for years. The more external features
of the uprooting of old-established false doctrines, are
equally powerful, strife and contention among large
masses of people being the result. Scientific education
would do much to check the number of unproved
speculations which are regularly floated upon the
public mind. An experimentalist, for instance, makes
two or three discoveries in connection with light;
he finds that a single theory appears to thread them
together, consequently it commends itself to his
mind as affording a resting-point where before all
was chaos. He next sees that though his speculation
appears to be true, its value is proved or disproved by
a particular experiment; he spends a month or two in
fitting up the apparatus, he expends a considerable
amount of money ; he thinks over the coming experi¬
ment by day, and dreams over it by night, until its
final trial proves that his apparently promising theory
is false. He then probably has to spend a year or two
and make many other failures before he reaches the
true explanation. The hard rubs thus given to pro¬
mising speculations by experience, make him very
cautious in accepting any new theory. The scientific
teacher considers it a reprehensible thing to give to his
classes any half-formed speculations, which apparently
serve to explain some dozen or two facts, but are not
proved, for, as the late Professor W. Allen Miller once
said, in effect, to his hearers at the Eoyal Institution,
—“ I will not tell you the hypothesis supposed to ex¬
plain these facts, and which is now a source of conten¬
tion among scientific men, for I know how difficult
it is to eject theories from the brain after they
have been once implanted there.” The reverse of
this line of action is the characteristic of Allan
Kardec’s book. He advances numberless assertions
in the most authoritative manner, without deigning to
give an atom of proof. Some of the disciples of Allan
Kardec say that reincarnation is a matter of revela¬
tion ; that the spirits must know best, and that those
spirits who do not teach the doctrine are of a lower
order, less intelligent than the others. If the autho¬
rity of supposed spirit teachings is appealed to, we,
who have attended probably more seances with different
mediums than anybody in Europe, emphatically pro¬
nounce such a position to be most unsafe. Practically
speaking, the doctrine has not, up to the present time,
been taught through any medium of any kind residing
in England, and those doctrines which have been
taught here have usually (with a few striking excep¬
tions) been strongly coloured by the opinions of the
Oct. 8, 1875.
medium, or those of the sitters; in short, it may be
laid down as a general principle that about ninety per
cent, of spirit messages contain more of the thoughts of
the medium than of the thoughts of the communicating
spirit. This takes place unconsciously to the medium,
of course. "Where many messages professing to come
from different spirits through the same medium have
been published, critical examination nearly always
shows repetition of the same phraseology in the
different messages. We have a book before us now in
which all the spirits, good, bad, and indifferent, are
addicted to the profuse use of the word “lovely.” We
know full well that if the reincarnation doctrine
should be agitated in England plenty of spirits will
begin to teach it, the reason being that the minds of
the various mediums will be set buzzing by the
arguments on the subject mooted by persons
around them, after which there will be plenty of
Spirit messages about reincarnation. The prevalence
of the teaching of this doctrine by mediums in
Prance, may be attributed to the circumstance that
the sitters at the circles expect such teachings, and the
minds of the mediums are full of them; therefore it is
very instructive, in a scientific sense, that this doctrine
should have spread so much among mediums on the
Continent only, and not in England, since it shows
how much the opinions of mortals colour the mes¬
sages, and gives a warning to the public to be
cautious about placing implicit reliance upon spirit
messages.
The foregoing arguments have little or nothing to do
with 'the truth or error of the doctrine of reincarna¬
tion, they merely attempt to show that not one tittle of
evidence of its truth is contained in Allan Kardec’s
book, that the book is of a theological and not of a
scientific order, and that it requires to be accepted, if
accepted at all, upon authority, a plan which will
hardly succeed, except in Roman Catholic countries,
where the minds of men and women are more subject
to authority. If the contents of the work should ever
cause contention in England it will be a pity, for that
contention will be of a theological order, with no
common ground or fixed data to which to appeal. The
only good which could come out of any further public
discussion of its contents would be to confine the
arguments to the facts on which the doctrine is
alleged to be based, namely—that high and good
spirits teach it, and that the said teachings during
transmission were not coloured by the thoughts of
the mediums, or by those of the members of the
circle present; thus, at all events, some interesting in¬
formation about manifestations will be brought out, and
as facts will be dealt with instead of assumptions, any
space given to the examination thereof will not be
wasted. Apart from the subject of reincarnation there
is much that is interesting in Allan Kardec’s book
about problems which perplex Spiritualists, but the
work displays a considerable amount of inexperience as
to the real nature of mediums, manifestations, and spirit
messages. That the words “ Spiritualist Philosophy ”
should be printed on the back of the book is unjust to
English Spiritualists, because they have not accepted it
as such, therefore cannot approve its being laid before
the general public under that guise without their con¬
sent. As a translation it is excellent, displaying great
literary ability, and as a specimen of book-printing it
does great credit to Mr. Triibner and Messrs. Ballan-
tyne and Company.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
171
Got. 8, 1875.
A SEANCE WITH MR. WALLIS.
On Monday evening last a seance with Mr. Wallis, trance
medium, was held on the premises of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London. There was
a large attendance, the visitors quite filling the seance room, and
among the listeners were M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, M.
Soloviof, of Moscow, Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. A. Calder, Mr.
and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Yesey, Mr. and Mrs.
Edmands, Mr. Keningale Cook, Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt, Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mr. George King, Mr. F. Collingwood,
Mrs. Maltby, Dr. Theobald, Mr. Morell Theobald, Miss Kisling-
bury, Mr. and Miss Withall, Mrs.Fitz-Gerald, sen., Mr. and Mrs.
Regan, and several other friends, including the lady who passed
through the strange experiences narrated in Mr. Dunphy’s
article, once published in these pages under the title of “ The
Mysterious Man.”
< AN INSPIRATIONAL PRAYER.
' Mr. Wallis passed into the trance state, and said :—0 Thou,
our Father, Friend, and Guide, we come imploring Thy love, Thy
power, and Thy assistance. 0 do Thou pour out upon us Thy
Holy Spirit of wisdom and of love, that we may speak words of
comfort and of truth, and sow the seeds of light and knowledge,
that Thy earthly children may feel that Thou art ever present
with them tojbless them. 0 Thou, in whom we live and move,
and have our being, we offer thanks for the past, and we im¬
plore Thy mercies in the future. We offer up our thanks for
Thy mercies in respect to our short-comings, and we feel and
know that Thou who art love wilt not be angry with us, that
all the troubles of life are for a purpose, and for the fitting
of our spirits for that life which is to come, for that high and
more sublime life of the spirit. May all know and feel that
this is so, and Thine be the honour and glory for ever. Amen.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
The communicating spirit then said:—Dear friends,—It is
with feelings of great pleasure that I stand before you to-night.
First of all, perhaps, it would be well to make a few opening
remarks, as there are few here who have listened to me
before. To those who frequently attend our seances I am
known as “ The Standard Bearer of Truth,” but my
name in earth life was Benjamin George Endworth, and I
lived perhaps two or three centuries ago; I have not a
decided recollection as to the time because I have passed the
earth’s sphere, and in the spiritual world have outgrown my
earth’s experiences. When upon this earth my time was spent
in endeavouring to teach and preach. I was much persecuted
because I believed neither in the Protestant nor Roman'Catholic
beliefs, but I felt that power was given me from on high to help
me in my difficulties. In my time I saw martyrs burning at the
stake, both Roman Catholics and Protestants. I have seen them
giving up their lives, counting themselves blessed at this suffering
for the truth. If we had more of this earnestness now it would
be beneficial to the world. Spiritualists ought to do more to
give to the world the benefit of their experience. I now wait
your pleasure either to answer any questions you may put or to
speak on any subject, if you will supply one.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald said : Will the spirit tell us of tho persecu¬
tions he witnessed, to let us judge of the time in which he lived?
Will he tell us something of his earth-life ?
The Spirit: It is a somewhat painful topic to return to those
days of pain and suffering, but I will do my best.
Mr. Everitt: As you remember your own life, please tell us
the names and particulars relating to those martyrs you men¬
tioned just now.
THE STORY OF A LIFE.
The Spirit: The names of those who died at the stake are
well known, and if I told you more it would be of little interest,
but in the course of my remarks I will mention one who is known
to you. As a child I was precocious. I had an elder brother
who passed into the spiritual state when twelve years of age.
My father intended to train me up to his own trade, but a very
earnest man living close by asked that I should be placed under
his care, saying that he would educate me in the paths of truth
and virtue, and my father acceded to his request. That man
was George Fox, the founder of the Quakers. He began by
teaching me the alphabet and how to read, a difficult task in
those days. I remember well hoW, while we were sitting in the
arbour together, he traced letters upon the ground with his stick
and brought their meaning to the understanding of my young
mind. After he had given me sufficient training, I began to travel
up and down the country preaching and teaching; I did not rest
long in one place. I had no wish to become the pastor
of any particular chapel, church, or place of worship. It was
my delight to go among the workers in the corn-fields, to help
them to. gather in the harvest, and when the day’s work was
over to speak to them of many of the truths I had read in the
sacred Book. I then endeavoured to impart to them the ideals
which had been impressed on my own mind. I will now speak
of my death. At the age of fifty my material frame began to
break down ; I became a bedridden, weak old man. I was then
living with an old couple who loved me, and had always made
me welcome, and who kept me five years in that state. Just
previous to my passing away, many doubts passed through my
mind as to the truthfulness of those ideas I had mooted to my
fellows on the subject of immortality. I knew it was beautiful
to think of immortal life, but I could not get rid of doubting
fears, until one day I heard some beautiful music, and saw two
forms approach me from afar. I seemed to see through the
house into the hills; I discovered the approaching forms to be
those of my father and mother, who told me they had come to
set my doubts at rest, and from that moment I had open com¬
munion with them. One day they brought my little brother;
they were all singing in glad strains, and said that they had
come to take me with them into the spirit-world. I looked
down and saw my body lying on the couch with my two friends
holding one of my hands in theirs. I said to my father,
“ Whither am I to go?” “ Fear not, I will take care of thee,”
was the reply. Then I became unconscious, and remained so
for one or two days, after which I found myself in a habitation
in the spiritual world, but language will not enable me to ex¬
plain its nature to you, nor can I impart to you any idea of it.
I was very happy; my father and mother were with me. Next
I felt a strong attraction downwards, and a sorrowful feeling I
could not account for. My father said, “ It is your friends
mourning over your departure; they are about to bury your
remains.” I said, “ Let me go back to them; let me comfort
them.” He remarked, “ Wait; you know not what you do.”
A leader came. We rose from the ground, for to us our world
is as real and tangible as yours is to you. We descended into
a mist which I feared to enter; soon I found myself beside
those dear friends who were about to place the lid on my coffin.
It was a rough wooden structure ; but the remains of one they
loved and cherished were there, and they shed bitter tears of
sorrow. I watched. My spirit friends made passes over their
heads, and seemed to be pouring upon them some power from
their hands ; to me it looked like oil. They told me it was the
“ oil of consolation.” After imprinting one kiss upon the cold
form, my aged friend said : “ He is happier than we; we shall
meet him by and by.” The village maidens and youths carried
my cprpse reverently into the old church, and many tears stood
in the eyes of those poor village folks—tears of love and
sympathy. I could not come back to tell them that I was not
lost, so I then and there registered a vow, if ever it was possible
to return to earth I would do so, and endeavour to teach that
there is no death—there is but life everlasting. This duty
brings me amongst you to-night.
THE PRAYER OF A SAVAGE.
A spirit who gave the English name of Lightheart, and
claimed that he had been a savage on earth, then began to
sing in a foreign tongue. Afterwards ho translated tha
words thus:
0 Thou Great Spirit,
Thou that rulest over all the earth,
That sendest Thy storms when thou art angry,
0 be merciful!
I bring my offerings to Thee.
Wilt Thou, 0 Great Spirit, pour Thy favours upon me ?
0 Great Spirit, do not be angry,
Do not send thy fires to burn me.
Love the poor black man, 0 Thou Great Spirit.
The Great Spirit loves the black man,
He will not hurt him.
The black spirit will hurt him if he gets too much good.
Another spirit who announced himself as “ The Leader of the
Band,” came and asked whether he should deliver a discourse
upon a subject to be selected by the listeners, or should answer
questions ?
Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald—Gan you tell me why one spirit
cannot see another spirit standing by his side ?
The Spirit: It is not always so; some can see and others
cannot. Those spirits who are in different spheres are often no
more able to see each other than you are able to see us.
REINCARNATION.
M. Soloviof—Can you tell us anything about the origin of the
human spirit ? Has it existed from all eternity or not ?
0 The Spirit—Do you mean, did it exist as a human spirit
172
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Got. 8, 1875.
before its life upon earth, and will it continue its existence in
the future ?
M. Soloviof: The latter I doubt not, but the former question
I wish answered.
Another gentleman said: How did the human spirit first
come into being ?
The Spirit: Friend, you are diving deeply into the mysteries
of nature.
The questioner responded: For what other purpose are we
here ?
Tho Spirit continued : Just so. We speak not dogmatically,
but so far as we know, and no further. The question is—
“ Does the human spirit exist as a personality before entering
the human body, and does it afterwards exist as the same
personality when it goes into the spirit world ? ” As far as
our experience has gone, the sph’it does not exist as an indi¬
viduality previously to the birth of the child, or previously to
its inception. In tracing out first causes we will just select
this one point, and in so doing will take a glimpse of that
philosophy known to you as reincarnation, as we see that this is
in the minds of most of you. It is well that we should speak
as plainly as we can upon it. According to our experience we
know nothing of reincarnation. We do not believe it, because
we have never seen it; but there is one point we will touch
upon. There are a certain number of souls who enter the
human body again and again, and gain so much control over
matter that there is no further need for being incarnated. I
would ask reincarnationists-how are the places of those who have
gone into the celestial spheres .filled up ? Are new souls then
created ? I believe that in every germ there is a spiritual
germ, which is fed and sustained from the parent, and that
with the growth of the body the spirit grows and is developed
—how and why, and where, is a mystery which none of your
physiologists can fathom. They may talk of protoplasm, but
have they the germs of life there? There is not one of them
who can analyse or weigh spirit. As far as we know the spirit
does not exist as a personality before the birth of the child;
that statement is made so far as our experience extends, and
no farther.
The questioner responded: Then you know nothing of the
origin of spirit ?
The Spirit: Friend, we, as spirits, know that there is a
spiritual essence underlying and imminent in all things,
which spirit, we, for convenience, call God ; but we know of no
personalities who have not once possessed a human form.
Mr. Martin R. Smith—Are the father and mother the parents
of the spirit as well as the body of the child ?
The Spirit—We believe they are, but there is this fact to be
taken into consideration—spirits watch over those children and
train their thoughts in particular directions.
Mr. King—What makes people think there is such a thing as
reincarnation ?
The Spirit—We believe that they were so taught by the
ancients at the time that they believed that the earth was flat,
and that hell was a place of darkness below. They did not
know the extent of stellar space, and could not tell where the
thousands of spirits constantly leaving the body went to. To
get over the difficulty I think they invented reincarnation.
There are spirits in the spiritual state who hold that view, and
I would ask them why they are not reincarnated, and does a
spirit voluntarily reincarnate itself ?
A gentleman asked—Did you ever know a spirit who was re¬
incarnated ?
The Spirit—No, most emphatically no, or we should not have
made the statements just uttered.
Mr. George King—Do spirits ever believe in it temporarily
through coming into rapport with a medium who holds rein-
camationist views?
The Spirit—We have never experienced such sensations with
our medium, perhaps because we do not take possession of his
material body ; we act upon him by sympathy.
An Inquirer asked—How do you control now ?
The Spirit—By sympathy, and not by actual possession.
Another speaker said—Can the medium be imbued with the
thoughts of the circle ?
The Spirit—We think the controlling spirit can counteract
those influences to a certain extent; we feel them now, but can
overcome them.
A gentleman remarked—Then a spirit who controls the
body of the medium would feel the influence of the circle
more ?
The Spirit—Yes, to a certain extent, but the power would not
be sufficient to upset tho control of the spirit. Much depends
upon the power of the spirit who controls. Some mediums fire
mesmerically affected by the influence of the sitters, and not
under the control of spirits at all.
Mr. K. Cook—Have you ever had a discussion with spirits
who believed in reincarnation ?
The Spirit—No, but a friend of mine who was a lawyer in
earth-life has done so. One spirit told him he had been rein¬
carnated five times, the second fifty, and the other ten. He
weighed their statements in the light of past experience in sift¬
ing evidence, and thought that they were not of much value.
Miss Kislingbury—How do yoxx account for the superiority
of great teachers over the rest of mankind, if they had not had
a previous existence ?
The Spirit—I think I said before that at the birth of every
child there are spirits who influence it according to the degree
of receptivity of the parents. Tho results of spiritual influences
are known to mortals as “ intuition.”
' MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS.
A Gentleman asked—Does the individual live for ever after
bodily death?
The Spirit—Yes, so Tar as we know. We have no reason to
say to the contrary, for we know nothing of annihilation.
Mr. Martin Smith—Is there anything analogous to death in
the spiritual world ?
The Spirit—Yes, in the lower stages of development—in the
stages near earth-life. We hope that in time men will become
so spiritualised as not to have to pass through the process of
death.
Another listener said—Does prayer help the spirit ?
The Spirit—Yes, by teaching you to weigh well the acts of
your past lives and to look to the future; it also lifts you from
the trials around you, and brings you nearer to the higher in¬
telligences, so that they can impart to you the knowledge they
have gained; thus prayer benefits by bringing you closer to
bright teachers.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald—Do you require food ?
The Spirit—We have food you know not of, analogous to
spirit in its nature.
Mr. Calder—Can you toll us how spirits materialise them¬
selves ?
The Spirit—I have never done it myself; so far as I have
seen, the spirits who do it get from mediums a certain force,
and then draw material atoms from the atmosphere.
THE NATURE OF MEMORY.
Mr. K. Cook—Gan you tell us the difference between spiritual
and natural memory ? There is, I believe, a natural memory
of objects of sense taken in through the brain which, having
taught the spirit something, has served its purpose. We do
not, I suppose, carry everything in our present memories to the
spirit life ?
The Spirit—The experiences of the spirit in sleep show there is
a natural and spiritual memory; thei'e is undoubtedly a memory
apart'from that of earth life : if the spirit is to be taught, there
must be a spiritual memory to be taught by. Almost all the
functions of the brain are brought into requisition in memory,
and some persons go so far as to say that when the brain
decomposes a great portion of the knowledge which has been
gained is lost. So far as I know, in earth life men when asleep
often leave their bodies, enter the spiritual world, and gain know¬
ledge amongst spirits there, but on returning they have no
recollection of what they have passed through. This is a benefit
to them, in so far as the experience is worked out afterwards
unconsciously to their outer selves, and this constitutes “ in¬
tuition,” which is but another word for knowledge gained from the
spirit world. . This spiritual memory becomes more active when
the earthly body is laid aside, and enables the spirit then to
know the previously unseen causes which had been at wbrk
during his life upon earth; for these reasons it is desirable
that all men should cultivate intuition. We find our power has
gone, dear friends; so we must bid you adieu. Good-night.
The spirit calling himself Lightheart said he had come to say
a few words to get the medium’s brain into equilibrium, because
“ big speakers upset it by their arguments,” so that his final
control would put it right.
After a few jocular remarks from the controlling influence,
the seance, came to a close.
A Problem.—Colonel Olcott’s book narrates how at one
time the Eddy Brothers publicly exhibited genuine spiritual
manifestations as conjuror's tricks, as has also been done by
Melville Fay, Yon Yleck, and some other physical mediums.
What kind of spirits are they who aid mediums in such a
career ?
Oct. 8, 1875.
173
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MR. MORSE’S AMERICAN EXPERIENCES.
A spiritualists’ camp meeting.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—In accordance ■with, the promise contained in my last
letter, to •which you kindly accorded space in your issue of
August 27th, I ■will, with your permission, place before your
readers an account of my experiences at the annual camp meet¬
ing of the Liike Pleasant Spiritualists’ Association.
The camp was pitched on the 4th of August, and was not
raised until the 29th of the same month. The formal opening
did not take place until Sunday, August 8th, though it was not
until about the 11th that the camp could be fairly considered as
being fully under weigh. The grounds wherein the camp was
located are owned by the Fitchburgh Railroad Company, and are
situated within the limits of the township of Montague, Mass.,
and just 100 miles from Boston. The grounds are of consider¬
able extent, and nearly oblong in shape, thickly wooded with
pine, fir, oak, and other trees. At the northern end there is a
handsome sheet of water some mile or so in length, and, at its
widest, three-quarters of a mile broad. Rising from its southern
shore is a gently ascending slope, which, at the head of the lake,
forms itself into a natural amphitheatre. Facing this rising
ground, on your left, are seen the steps leading to the railroad
track and platform, and also the dancing pavilion, an open struc¬
ture built of wood, and prettily ornamented a la Suisse. Imme¬
diately facing you is the rear of the speaker’s stand, and rising
from its front are tiers of seats, ranged in a semicircle, having
the stand as the centre of the arc, while on the brow of the hill,
running almost the full compass of the view thus presented, are
seen the canvas homes of the campers. 'Skiffs dot the lake for
the lovers of aquatics, bath houses for ladies and gentlemen are
on its margin, and a pleasant and shady walk runs round its
western shore, a retreat for meditative students and—lovers!
Ascending to the top of the hill just described, one looks
down upon the railroad, which at this spot runs through a sandy .
cutting, thus giving us what is called the Bluffs. Facing round,
to the west we find a long street, named Lyman-street, of canvas
houses, the first of which, upon our right, is one labelled
“ Head-quarters ” and “ Post-office/’ wherein the committee of
management holds its meetings, and where stamps are sold,
letters mailed and delivered, and money orders issued and paid.
Leading out of Lyman-street on the left was Second Avenue,
upon which your correspondent and his friend Mr. Cooper were
located, and a few paces further on, same side, was Third
Avenue, while, also, not to be considered as entirely
plebeian, aristocratic Fifth Avenue must also be there.
The first opening on the left, facing Third Avenue,,
was Broadway, without which no American city, whether
of canvas, wood, or brick, is considered complete. On the
north-west corner of Broadway stood a restaurant, under
the management of Mr. Austin. It was a moderate-sized tent,
well supplied with tables, chairs, and all the appliances of a
regular restaurant; while next door there was another establish¬
ment of a similar character, under the management of Mr.
Dunklee, considerably larger than its neighbour, and in many
respects the superior place of the two. Board— three meals per
day—was supplied at the rate of six dollars for seven days,
about £1 Is. 6d. for the week, our money. * Both hotels were
well patronised, and doubtless they proved remunerative to their
proprietors. Next to Dunklee’s hotel was a tinware “ store,”
whereat all kinds- of domestic utensils, pails, brooms, candle¬
sticks, lamps, cutlery, and tinware of all kinds could be pur¬
chased ; and standing as neighbour to the tin store was a
“ grocery,” where provisions of all kinds, bread, flour, fish, and
butter, could be had, a flourishing trade being done at both estab¬
lishments. Right and left the tents ranged, forming quite a
lengthy street, which terminated in Owasso-street, so named, I
presume, from Dr. Slade’s Indian control. This street termi¬
nated in one side of Charter-square, named so from a Boston
medium that lived therein; going out at right angles with
Owasso-street was Montague-street, which, meeting the foot of
Lyman-street, makes almost a square, or block, of that section
of the capip. Still keeping right on, we finally come to the
boundary of the grounds, and making a sharp turn we find
ourselves at the foot of First Avenue, or as it called the Bluffs.
Hero, facing southwards, we observe Mount Toby; it is some
seven miles distant, and frequent excursions were made to its
summit, from which a splendid view of the surrounding country
is obtained. The scenery here is quite mountainous; in fact,
picturesque and charming.
At this, the lower end of the grounds, was established g,
museum and menagerie, a large tent wherein mesmeric enter¬
tainments were given, and several other sports for the delectation
of the juveniles.
In many cases the campers owned their own tents, and when
such was the case the tents were almost invariably superior in
construction, and external and internal arrangement and orna¬
mentation. But the great majority of the campers rented their
tents from the Association. The terms for so doing were from
six dollars to twelve dollars for the term, according to the size of
the tent. Your Yankee, as a rule, is an ingrained speculator,
and, therefore, it was not surprising that many an enterprising
genius should rent two or three tents at those terms, and then
sublet them to transient visitors, making a good profit out of
the transaction. A new feature was inti’oduced at this
year’s camp, in the form of portable wooden huts, or cot¬
tages, as they were called, costing, to buy right out, from
eighty to one hundred dollars; some five or six of them were
erected, and the builder received quite a number of orders for
similar structures for next year. A plentiful supply of water
was obtained from wells sunk throughout the grounds, and large
casks were placed at various points, which were kept filled for
the use of the tenters thereabout. On ordinary days—or nights,
rather—there could not have been much less than one thousand
souls sleeping in our canvas city, while probably on Saturdays
the number was doubled. A detachment of police watched
over us day and night, though their office was comparatively a
sinecure. So much, then, for a description of our city of tents;
now as to how its inhabitant s spent their time.
On week-days the mornings from 10.30 till noon were devoted#
to open conferences in which all who had any desire to speak
upon the subjects discussed were at liberty to do so, ten minute
speeches being the rule. Dinner was served at about 12.15
p.m., and at one o’clock the band, which wag retained for the
whole meeting, and was a capital one, commenced an instru¬
mental concert of half an hour’s duration, at the close of
which the president introduced the regular speaker of the
day. Dr. J. Beals, of the neighbouring town of Greenfield was
and is the president; "he is a tall, venerable, and genial New
Englander, and a most hospitable host, as I can testify. The
speeches at the week-day lectures embraced male and female
talent, some indifferent, but mostly good. At the close of the
lecture, at about three o’clock, the band commenced operations
in the pavilion, which was then open to dancers only. Two
hours’ dancing was then kept up. At six p.m. supper was
served, and at eight dancing recommenced. Concerts, circles,
mesmeric entertainments, social visits, moonlight strolls, euchre,
and other methods of passing time were also practised, and at
10.30 p.m, “ lights out ” brought the labours and pleasures of
the day to a close.
I must here describe one or two events of a unique nature
that contributed to the amusement of the campers. The first
was what is known as a “ sheet and pillow case ” or “ phantom
party.” The participants are draped in sheets, turbaned with
pillow cases, and adorned with natui*al flowers, while some
provide dresses similar to those worn by the Follies during
carnival times. For the first hour and a half all are masked,
and the complete change the dress makes in one’s appearance,
and the fact that many gentlemen robe as ladies, leads to some
comical and grotesque rencontres.
Another event was what is styled an “ Old Folks’ Concert,” in
which all the performers are attired in the costumes of a century
ago, and at which all the airs and words date back to the same
period. This was held in the open, air at the speakers’ stand,
one Sunday evening. On the Tuesday evening following an
“ Old Folks’ Dance ” was held at the Pavilion, whereat the
dancers were all attired in the costumes of the days gone by.
The dances on that occasion were of a century ago also. Three
character, or, as they call them here, “ variety,” concerts were
given, Dunklee’s boarding tent being used for the purpose;
they were capitally conducted and quite liberally patronised. Your
readers can thus judge that there was plenty of all kinds to
meet the demands of the various tastes congregated together.
That days passed pleasantly indeed under such circumstances
is but to be expected.
On Sundays two lectures were given by different speakers,
and on such occasions from three to five thousand persons were
present at the stand. Messrs. Munton, Denton, Eccles, Storer,
Abbot, and your correspondent being the speakers selected
upon the different Sundays. The railroad owning the grounds
issued excursion tickets from Boston to the grounds for less
than the single fare for the journey out and home; while other
lines of road that make connection with the Fitchburgh railroad
acted in like manner; and, as a result, on Sunday from ten to
fifteen thousand people spent the day upon the grounds.
With the close of the lecture on Sunday afternoon, August
Oct. 8, 1875.
174 THE SPIRITUALIST.
the 29th, the formal part of the camp came to an end, and tent¬
raising speedily commenced. By Tuesday our city was almost
deserted, and on that day the writer bid adieu to Lake Pleasant
and the camp meeting held thereon. Camp meetings, let me
state, are not peculiar, nor confined to the Spiritualists in
America, several of the religious bodies indulging in the same
thing; and as in our case they afford a splendid opportunity
for a summer breathing, combined with instruction, entertain¬
ment and amusement, they are a boon to all concerned.
I rested a few days in Boston, on one of which, in company
with Mr. Luther Colby and a few personal friends, we made a
trip down to Boston harbour, enjoying the same immensely. At
the end of the week I left Boston, and in due season found
myself in this city—Bangor, Maine, again. The warmth of
my welcome assured me that though I had been absent I had
not been forgotten.
And now, sir, I wish to address a few words to my provincial
friends. I am returning home again, and am still as desirous
as ever of bearing my part in the work incident to our cause.
I shall be pleased to hear from societies at home or in the
country in regard to filling calls from them. I thank them for
their past consideration in this matter, and hope for its con¬
tinuance in the future.
I may here say that I have made arrangements to sail in the
screw steamer Baltic, White Star line, from New York to Liver¬
pool, on Oct. 9th, and, all being well, hope to tread English
ground again by the 20th of the month; and then other
matters that I have not room to mention hero I will tell my
friends of, viva voce. Until we meet then, sir, may life prosper
with us all is the hope of J. J. Morse.
Bangor, Me., United States, Sept 20th, 1875.
Passed to Spirit Life.—On Wednesday, September 29th,
Mrs. Ellen Harrison (mother of Mr. W. H*. Harrison), in the
65th year of her age.
Many communications are kept over till next week for want
of' space in this number. Several of them did not reach the
office till Wednesday, and might have reached it on Monday had
the writers not caused unnecessary delay.
Mrs. Kerns’ Mediumship.—Mrs. Louie M. Kerns, of San
Francisco, an account of whose mediumship appeared lately in
the Banner of Light, and who is now spending a short time in
London, addressed a large audience at Doughty Hall, Bedford-
row, on Sunday evening last. After giving the history of her
own mediumship, Mrs. Kerns gave tests to some of those pre¬
sent. She saw a name (a peculiar one) in luminous letters in
the air. This was publicly acknowledged by Mr. Slater to be
the name of a friend of his who had told him, before entering
the spirit-world, that he would return and give Mr. Slater a
test which should be unmistakable.
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—On Sunday
last Dr. Sexton delivered two discourses at the Cavendish Rooms,
Mortimer-street, Regent-street, London, that in the morning
being on “ The Relation of Christianity to Reason,” and that in
the evening on “ The Idea of God.” The morning audience was
somewhat smaller than usual, in consequence of the weather
being extremely wet, but in the evening the place was tolerably
well filled. On Sunday next the subject of the discourses will
be, in the morning, “ The Relation of Christianity to Know¬
ledge,” and in the evening, “ The Doctrine of a Final Cause—its
Nature and True "Value.” Service commences in the morning at
eleven, and in the evening at seven.
A Present to the National Association.—Mr. Charles
Blackburn, of Manchester, has just presented a cabinet for
materialisation manifestations, for use in the seance room, to the
British National Association of Spiritualists. It runs upon
wheels, so that it can be drawn or pushed from one room to
another, and although large enough for use during many kinds
of materialisation manifestations, it can quickly be doubled in
size if required, by opening the two doors and then turning over
upon their upper edges a large wooden flap which ordinarily
lies back upon the top of the cabinet. Thus the doors serve to
extend the sides, and the moveable flap enlarges the top;
nothing then remains to be done but to suspend curtains in
front, and the cabinet will hold two or three or four mediums
if necessary. It is easily examined, for it contains nothing but
plain wooden sides, blacked inside, and painted and grained
outside in such a manner as to match the woodwork of the
seance room. Mr. Blackburn has thus generously made another
useful addition to the permanent stock possessed by the National
Association.
(Korreaponnence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
REINCARNATION.
Sir,—I had trusted that the doctrine of Reincarnation could
never bo admitted to discussion in this country; but since it
has now been broached by English Spiritualist papers, and since
some of their readers seem at a loss what to think about it, I
beg, in spite of the repugnance with which I approach the sub¬
ject, to bo allowed space in your columns for some comments
upon it.
What strikes persons imbued with the most ordinary degree of
knowledge of the results of scientific research is the apparent ne¬
science involved in the belief in question, not only of certain laws
discerned and facts ascertained by science in the present day, but
of its guiding principle itself—the uniformity of nature. The
phenomena of Spiritualism, though certainly inexplicable by
known laws, are not subversive of them; they merely indicate
the existence of unknown laws: but the theory of Reincarnation
is in flagrant contradiction to a law verified by indisputable
facts, the law of hereditary transmission either from parents or
more remote ancestors, of mental as well as physical qualities.
It assumes, moreover, that nature, in the formation of her
highest product—the human spirit—acts on no fixed plan, for
while it does not deny that the majority derive their mind
from their parents, some, according to it, have had their in¬
cipient forms taken possession of, and animated by, spirits
desirous of return to earth. Whether such spirits eject the
embryonic spirit, hermit-crab fashion, from its tenement, or
simply suppress it, we are not, I believe, informed.
But leaving objections of this order to others more competent
(would they stoop to the task), to show their bearing on the
question I pass to Monsieur Kardec’s great argument in
support of reincarnation, viz., that in many cases it is indis¬
pensable to progress, an assumption which appears to me to the
last degree absurd. What an idea, that a more ethereal body,
and more ethereal surroundings, are conditions less potent for
progress than an earthly body and earthly surroundings! What
an idea, that, instead of continous progress such as analogy would
lead us to conjecture—progress slow and painful, or rapid and
joyful, in degrees varying with the nature of each being, from
a higher sphere to one higher still—the soul must, on the con¬
trary, after disunion from the body, and sojourn in a spiritual
realm, retrograde to earth and to rudimental life, for the purpose
of purification! What idea more disheartening than that the
experience acquired often at such cost in this life, instead of being
of powerful assistance, a lamp unto our feet in the next, will
then be useless because, like the whole (but for some vague
memories) of our past existence, forgotten ?
What idea more shocking to the feelings of a mother than that
the child at her breast is not in reality her own, that its inner
and true self is that of some man or woman a stranger to her,
and stained with what sins she knows not ?
The more, in short, I consider the doctrine of reincarnation,
the more it appears to me to be composed purely of the
irrational, the disgusting, and the ludicrous.
That a number of writing mediums, and some direct com¬
munications from the invisible world, affirm its truth, proves
nothing whatever in its favour, for how many and various are
the theories and dogmas which may claim sanction from that
source- The solo fragment of fact adduced in its support is
the flimsy one that some persons declare they have what
seems to them reminiscences of portions of a former life on
earth, a mental experience which it has been suggested may
be owing to impressions retained by them of clairvoyant
dreams, in which past scenes appeared before their inner
vision. V.
Oct. 1st.
P.S.—I have just read Mr. Home’s letter in to-day’s Spirit¬
ualist, and am amused to see that he has met among rein-
carnationists no end of Mary Queen of Scots, Marie An¬
toinettes, Alexanders the Great, ’&c., &c.
THE EDITOR OP THE “ REVUE SPIRITS ” ON ALLAN KARDEC.
Sir,—Having recently glanced over a few of the leading
Spiritualist peripdicals of your city, I was painfully surprised to
find that at this crisis, when wo all (whether denominated
Spiritists, or Spiritualists) should be united in order to withstand
and repel the attacks,of our common enemy, the spirit of evil is
rife; and this when you are perfectly aware of the overpowering
and baneful influence exercised in this country by a certain body
of the clergy, when you yourself, on treating the subject of the
Oct. 8, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
175
trial, have spoken of M. Leymarie and Mr. Firman as being
the victims of that body, at this crisis, I repeat, you open the
columns of your influential paper to all those who seek to de¬
preciate the memory of Allan Kardec by petty Slanders and vile
insinuations, knowing, as you probably must, from what source
they come.* It is truly painful to me to see such erroneous
allegations disseminated by the public prints, and you will
allow me, sir, I trust, to defend the honoured memory of a most
honourable and injured man.
A feeling of respect and veneration towards the departed,
and especially towards those whose lives have been consecrated
to the accomplishment of all that is good and great, has always
been recognised as inherent in the English nation, and well may
it be proud of such a noble sentiment. In France it is cus¬
tomary to attack the reputation of every celebrated man whose
services have not been tendered to the Church as by law estab¬
lished. Turn him into ridicule, render him contemptible, take
away his good name, — nothing is spared for that purpose,
neither the use of vile language, nor the repeated and simul¬
taneous attacks of those two great organs of bigotry and
Jesuitism, the Univers and the Figaro.
Have MM. Dirckinck Holmfeld, and Aksakof been ac¬
quainted with Allan Kardec ? Not in the least. They have
simply repeated calumnies to which they ought never to have
listened. It is a well-established fact'that a man of talent, M.
Pierrard, and others, whose names it would-be useless to men¬
tion, take upon themselves the trouble to circulate those false¬
hoods, which naturally make an impression upon strangers in
Paris, who care very little about discovering the truth, and
merely repeat what has been communicated to them. We have
not the honour of being personally acquainted with M. Pierrard,
but would not for worlds do him any wrong, even though, in
order to militate against him, we were but to utter the hun¬
dredth part of the calumnies broached by him against Allan
Kardec, both during his lifetime and since he has been con¬
signed to the tomb—Allan Kardec, who was incapable of resent¬
ing an injury, and whose only vengeance consisted in saying all
the good he could find to say of his most implacable of
enemies!
To be adverse to certain studies or to certain doctrines, is
perfectly comprehensible and natural. Different men will
necessarily seek after the solution of many different problems,
and each individual seeker after the truth (or what he considers
such) will inevitably magnify the importance of that subject
which he is most frequently called upon to investigate : harmony
is the result of variety, both in the physical world and in the
spiritual. That M. Dirckinck Holmfeld’s system of philosophy
should be incomprehensible to those whose suffrages he seeks,
that it should be incomprehensible to us, what does that signify ?
Does that prove anything against a scientific and literary repu¬
tation, highly prized in Denmark ? because he cannot easily
explain his theories in the French language, ought we to con¬
demn a priori ? It would be absurd, and he certainly possesses
the right of combining his ideas and giving them publicity
(should he find readers); does he not also claim the right to
pick up odd bits and scraps of scandal, and have them inserted
in the English papers?
That M. Pierrard should write volumes, and influence tho
minds of many by a vigorous, concise, and logical argumen¬
tation, is his duty and his right. We can peruse his works with
infinite satisfaction to ourselves, but, certainly, without caring
to know what he was or what he did ten or twenty years ago.
We have to deal with his mind alone, and would never stoop to
pry into the private life or actions of any man.
That M. Aksakof, an eminent member of society, it is said,
and a pioneer of our cause, should collect the materials necessary
for the propagation of the truth ; that he should do away with
old customs and time-worn scientific prejudices, bravo, M. Ak¬
sakof ! say we. We are amongst the first to applaud and to
thank you; we honour you for what you have done, for what you
mean still to do, but cannot demean ourselves by inquiring into
your past life.
These gentlemen have leagued together for the purpose- of
attacking not only the founder of Spiritism, but also the doctrine
of reincarnation, and their antipathy to that subject has cer¬
tainly led them too far. Allow me to give you a brief and
curtailed outline of the biography of Allan Kardec.
Allan Kardec (Leon Hyppolite Denizan Rivail), of an ancient
family, distinguished at the bench and at the bar, was one of the
* We have never printed any slanders or insinuations in this journal.
Baron Holmfeld, an honourable gentleman, has published that Alien Kar¬
dec was once on the staff of the Jesuitical paper, V Univers, and that he was
instigated by the Jesuits. This is a mere statement of alleged facts, not
made anonymously.—Bb.
most eminent disciples of Pestalozzi, at Yverdun, in Switzerland.
Pestalozzi, the great thinker, the profound philosopher, the man
of science and progress, who exerted so wide an influence on tho
reform of education in France and Germany; Allan Kardec
became one of his most distinguished pupils, and subsequently
his coadjutor. Italian, English, and German he wrote and spoke
perfectly; he was a good Latin scholar, and has translated
several works into the German language, amongst others those
of F4nelon, Member of the Academy of Arras in 1831; he re¬
ceived the crown of honour’ for his memoir—“ What System of
Studies is most appropriate to the Social and Intellectual Deve¬
lopment of our Epoch ? ”
In an educational establishment, founded by him in the Rue
de Sevres, in Paris, he taught, during five years (from 1835 to
1840), chemistry, physics, anatomy, and astronomy. He also
gave gratuitous lectures during the same period; he was the
inventor of an ingenious method of learning to count, and also
of a mnemonic table to fix the dates .of historical facts and
remarkable discoveries in the memory; he was likewise a
member of several learned societies.
M. Rivail was a man of well-established merit; he was very
intimate with Alvarez Levi, and elaborated conjointly with him
those lectures which were attended by the aristocratic and
studious youth of Paris. To M. Rivail we are indebted for: 1st—
“ A Plan proposed for the Amelioration of Public Instruction ”
(1828); 2nd—“ Theoretical and Practical Course of Arithmetic
(1829); 3rd—“ClassicalFrench Grammar” (1831); 4th—“Manual
of Examinations for Diplomas of Capacity, and Solutions of Ques¬
tions and Problems of Arithmetic and Geometry ” (1846); 5th —
“ Grammatical Catechism of the French Language ” (1848); 6th
—“ Programming of the usual Courses of Chemistry, Physics, As¬
tronomy, Physiology (of which he was Professor at the Poly-
mathic Lyceum ”) ; 7th—Exercises for the Examinations at the
Hotel de Ville and Sorbonne, with Dictations upon Orthographic
Difficulties ” (1849). These various works, still highly esteemed,
were in great vogue at the time of their first publication. In.
1868, M. Rivail had new editions of them published, and his
name was well and deservedly known, not among sensational
writers, or contributors to light literature, but to men of letters
and men of judgment, who like to see useful knowledge diffused
in public and in private.
Madame Amelia Boudet, of a rich and respectable family,
brought a dowry of 80,000 fr. to her husband, M. Rivail. At
the death of the latter this sum of 80,000 fr. did not pay the
inheritance tax (droits de succession). It is exceedingly easy to
verify the fact. After their marriage, M. and Mme. Rivail lent
large sums to friends, who, in consequence of failures and other
untoward circumstances, never repaid them. One, the manager
of a theatre (Les Folies Dramatiques), had 50,000 fr., the
remnant of their fortune, and when this sum was in peril, M.
Rivail was obliged to superintend the pecuniary affairs of the
theatre, in order to save the last wreck of his fortune. From
this very natural circumstance his enemies would fain make us
believe that he had been a • vendor of theatre cheques. The
name of the manager we keep a secret, in accordance with the
last wishes of Allan Kardec, who forgave him on his dying bed.
After the entire loss of their fortune, Madame Rivail established
a young ladies’ boarding school; her husband became book¬
keeper to several large establishments, and, amongst others, to
the newspaper office of the Univers. He thus maintained him¬
self honourably with the produce of his hard earnings in several
different houses. What disgrace is it to work for one’s bread ?
And was he a contributor to the Univers because he sat over
the account-books two hours every day? Gan one single
article be produced proving him to be the contrary of what he
was, a lover of freedom, progress, and justice; an enemy to
bigotry and superstition in all its forms ? How was he in¬
terred? “But calumniate, calumniate,” says Basil, “ some¬
thing will always come of it.” Madame Allan Kardec, now the
possessor of a small property, on which she lives, aid which
came to her as a family bequest,has but a slender income of less
than two hundred a year, notwithstanding the unwearied and
life-long labours of her late husband. Since 1840 M. Rivail
had always been a member of the jury, and was almost con¬
stantly elected foreman. Now it is perfectly well known that
in order to be a juryman one must be in possession of one’s
political and civil rights, never have undergone any penalty,
condemnation, &c. The English reader has too much good sense
not to understand that Baron Dirckinck Holmfeld imposed upon
the credulity of the truly estimable Mr. William Howitt, when
ho asked him to publish statements so erroneous in the Spiritual
Magazine.
Ah, M. Aksakof! you are much to blame. Like M. Dirck¬
inck Holmfeld, you have hearkened to slanderers, and yet ours
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct, 8, 1875.
is a common cause. You should have used your influence to
promulgate the doctrine of brotherly love, and instead of that
you try to disunite us. The principle of reincarnation is not
to your taste; well, refute it calmly, dispassionately, philoso¬
phically, without having recourse to such petty means as back¬
biting and sarcasm. Men of great learning and talent believe
in it, and will not change their manner of thinking unless you
give them plausible reasons for doing so. Our opponents seem
to have read Allan Kardec in a very superficial manner, and
their opinion as to the compilation of the Spirits’ Book is
altogether a mistaken one.
M. Rivail began to study animal magnetism in 1830, and
continued his investigations with that spirit of impartiality and
soundness of judgment which his contradictors seem entirely
to want. In 1850 he had already analysed a quantity of docu¬
ments, and made many interesting observations on that subject;
during twenty years he studied the phenomena of magnetism in
all its bearings during twenty yews, you understand!
Mademoiselle Japhet, Mesdames Roger, Bodin, many som¬
nambulists and mediums, such as Mile. Huet, Mile. Duffaulz,
Mme. Robyno, and hundreds of others wore, and are still, very .
fit subjects of study to a clever mesmerist; each and every one
of them has his or her especial qualities and imperfections.
Taken separately and individually, the result of a mesmerist’s
researches would not, perhaps, amount to much; taken collec¬
tively, and submitted to the interrogations of a clear-sighted,
judicious, and able questioner, who knew how to select the
good grain from the bad, who went to work as only an experi¬
enced practician can, the precious diamond truth was extracted
from the dark mine, and given to the light of day. In 1855
the Spirits’ Book was first published, many additions were sub¬
sequently made to it up to the year 1858, when it appeared in
its complete form, such as we have it at present: 100,000
copies of it have been published and translated into all lan¬
guages. Did Allan Kardec ever assert that the-/Spinfs’ Book
or the Mediums’ Book were from his pen ? Never. They are
the productions*of supernatural beings who made use of the
instruments which they deemed most useful for that purpose, to
convey to us their instructions. They selected Allan Kardec,
because he was a man of good sense and sound judgment, to
preside over the spiritual sittings, exactly as his colleagues
chose him on all particular occasions, or in all matters of
weight, to be their chairman or their umpire. Allan Kardec has
not invented reincarnation, the principle has always subsisted,
has always had numerous and eminent adherents in ancient and
modern times; has he not repeated it over and over again ? and
how could M. Aksakof employ an argument so futile and so
false ?
Why should M. Kardec take more particular notice of Mile.
Japhet than of the other mediums and somnambulists whom he
mesmerised, and who all claim their share in the compilation of
the Spirits’ Book ? All of them are equally modest and un¬
pretending. M. Leymarie, who ever since the year 1858 has
been considered a good writing medium, would find it absurd
were he to lay claim to any portion of that work, because, for¬
sooth, the communications from the spirit would come through.
him. No 1 such teachings belong of right to those from whom
they have emanated, to our elder brethren in the spirit-land,
and we should all think ourselves only too happy to have
been chosen as instruments for the. amelioration of our fellow-
men.
Who ever thought of throwing Mile. Japhet, or any other
medium-, into the shade ? They have all been useful in their
way at a given moment, but what would be thought of placing a
dozen of their names at the top of each paragraph ? Would it not
be simply absurd? We regret that M. Aksakof should make
use of arguments so puerile ; if he would overturn the colossal
monument cemented by the labours of a great and noble spirit,
let him write a work himself, one which will enlighten our dark¬
ness, and “ bring us out of the shadow of death into the gates
of life,” if he can.
Those are likewise mistaken who accuse the Spiritists of
being attached to certain rites, dogmas, &c. No; they ai’e
men of free independent minds, seekers after the truth, enemies
of all deceitfulness and juggling, whose time is spent in study¬
ing the phenomena of Spiritualism, and not in flying about the
world, like M. Aksakof, to collect a parcel of gossiping tales,
and then recount them gravely Urbi et orbi. No; they make
use of no absurd practices; they have no articles of faith laid
down for them as a law; they respect the opinions of others,
even when most opposed to theirs, and they honour and esteem
the missionaries of truth and science, such men as Wallace,
Varley, William Crookes, and Davis.
Allan Kardec has never essayed to depreciate the physical
manifestations, nor the researches in physical science; on the
contrary, he has always recognised their utility. Do not his
works prove it ? But he has been perfectly right in warning
us against those who would seek to deceive by means of those
manifestations. Have we not experienced latterly the necessity
of such a warning ? And do we live in a country where even
researches into the phenomena are tolerated? Have we not
been condemned for merely speaking of the physical effects pro¬
duced by Firman, Williams, and Buguet ? Talk of America,
talk of Russia, where a commission has just been deputed to
investigate the science of Spiritualism, and then turn your
eyes to this land of bigotry and intolerance, where a prison is
ready for those who believe steadfastly in the possibility of
physical intercourse with another sphere of being. Ah, my
friends, the moment was well chosen to level your blows at us;
you have acted manfully in trying to crush those who wore
already bruised. Had you wished for more ample infonnation
you might have consulted our young media of the present day ;
intelligent, energetic, and liberal-minded; valiant labpurers in
the new vineyard; and, in our eyes at least, infinitely superior
to many whom you would glorify ; for we do not attach an un¬
due importance to mediums like Mdlle. Japhet, Mdlle. Gulden-
stubbe, Sardou, Vaillandier, &c. And why has your newspaper
at Leipsic always refused to insert the refutation of the articles
published in it against reincarnation ?
You speak of Camille Bredif, but you are not probably aware
that it was precisely M. Leymarie who, in conjunction with Dr.
Houatz, brought him out as a medium, and introduced him into
Russian society at Paris. Does he remember a certain seance
which took place in the Rue dTsly in the presence of M. Golo-
vine, M. and Mdme. Allan Kardec, and M. and Mdme. Ley¬
marie ? Will M. Aksakof kindly ask him if he wishes me to
publish an account of that meeting ? M. Golovine took some
notes at the time, and they are still in his possession. Shall I
mention why M. Kardec could not possibly write an article con¬
cerning the said medium ? why he could tell nothing of what
he had seen ? Will he have the goodness to answer ? It is
sometimes well to examine both sides of a question.
M. Rivail by no means despised his family name, which was
a very respectable one, but in France it is customary for public
writers to sign an assumed name ? It was his spirit friends and
guides who gave him the one which has now a world-wide
reputation. It was likewise his guides who directed him to
publish the Spirits’ Book, and he did so notwithstanding the
exiguity of his pecuniary resources. He continued his labours
until the day of his death, which was caused by a disease of the
heart (an aneurism). They who have known him intimately
can testify to his goodness, gentleness, and purity of life. He
lived very unostentatiously, and never refused to those who
asked his assistance : generous, simple-minded, and unaffected
to the last.
And now, gentle English readers, you who have sent me for
my defence before the Tribunal at Paris, witnesses so friendly,
and attestations so numerous, let us shun, I pray you, all that
has a tendency to disunite us. Let us walk hand in hand,
joined by the bonds of brotherly affection; let us not hearken
to wolves in sheep’s clothing. I am a reincamationist, and
yet, I consider you all as my brethren. If, in England, your
spirit friends give you instructions different from those which
we daily receive in France, it is that in their world, as in ours,
opinions vary. Let us respect those opinions; let us weigh
them in the balance, but without giving them more importance
than they deserve.
“ There is no effect without a cause,” and myriads of disem¬
bodied souls may think differently with regard to certain ques¬
tions which to all Spiritualists are not of vital importance, and
yet act in harmony together, because the principal points of
their belief are identical.
Allan Kardec says, “ Spiritism is entirely based on the exist¬
ence within us of an immaterial principle, on the exist¬
ence of the soul. He who will not admit that there is an
intelligent principle within him, cannot necessarily admit that
there is one existing without; and consequently, not admitting
the cause, he cannot admit the effect.” Like you, dear friends,
we believe in God, the Author of all things, all powerful,
sovereignly just, good, and of infinite perfection; we believe in
His providence, in the existence of the soul after its separation
from the body; we likewise believe in its individuality, not
considering it as a probability, but as the necessary consequence
of the divine attributes. Admitting the existence of the soul,
and its survival of the earthly envelope, we think that it would
be neither according to the justice, nor according to the good¬
ness of the Almighty that virtue and vice, good and evil, should
be treated in a similar manner after death, when we know that
Oct. 8, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
17 7
during life, the reward and the punishment are seldom distri¬
buted with equity. Then, if the souls of the wicked and those of
the just are not treated alike, some must be happy, and others
unhappy; that is to say, they must be punished or recompensed
according to their works.
What we desire (Spiritists and Spiritualists) is to challenge
research, to excite curiosity by means of adverse criticisms, and
to awaken the attention of the indifferent; rejecting, as un¬
worthy of us, the use of coarse and abusive language—sole
arguments of the shallow and unrefined. We ask of our con¬
tradictors to prove to us, not by any subterfuge or shift,- but by
a clear and palpable demonstration—whether mathematical,
physical, chemical, mechanical, or physiological—that an intel¬
ligent being, capable of the- act of thought during his life,
becomes incapable of performing that same act after he has
quitted his corporeal frame; that the faculty of thought being
allowed him, he cannot communicate with the beloved ones he
has left on earth; that, having the power of locomotion, he can¬
not transport himself into our vicinity ; that, being at our sides,
he cannot commune with us; that, by means of his fluidic
envelope, he cannot act upon inert matter; that, endowed with
power to act upon inert matter, he cannot influence a hand to
write; that, causing a hand to write, he cannot answer our
questions, or transmit to us his ideas.
Allan Kardec says (posthumous works, Revue Spirite, Sep¬
tember, 1869, page 267 to 261): “ The right of research and
criticism is one which cannot be proscribed: Spiritism cannot
expect to ignore it, any more than it can hope to give universal
satisfaction. Every one is free to reject or to approve ; but we
should, at least, have cognisance of what it is that we reject,
and what it is that we approve. Now our opponents have but
too frequently given proof of their complete ignorance of the
most elementary principles of our doctrine, attributing to us
sentiments and language in direct opposition to the truth.”
TJlat article should be read by all Spiritualists, but we are
obliged to be brief, and shall add only a few lines from the same
Revue (page 160): “ In the warfare that Spiritism has been
forced to sustain, it has always received the suffrages of impar¬
tial minds for its moderation; it has never employed retaliation
against its adversaries, nor ever returned wrong for wrong.
“ Spiritualism is a philosophical doctrine, the tendencies of
which are essentially religious, as in every Spiritualistic system
of philosophy; and hence it has necessarily many points of
contact with the fundamental bases of all religions—the Deity,
the human soul, a future life, &c. But nevertheless one cannot
call it a religion, for there is no worship, no rite, no temple,
no dogma, nor are there among its adepts any who style them¬
selves priests or high priests, those high-sounding terms having
existed only in the imagination of our criticisers. Ho is a
Spiritist who gives his adhesion to the principles of the doc¬
trine, and who conforms his conduct thereto. Every man has
an undeniable right to entertain certain opinions, or to uphold
certain modes of belief, whether he choose to be a disciple of
Voltaire or Descartes, or whether his religious sympathies in¬
cline him to be a Jew, a Catholic, a Protestant, a Fourierist, a
Saint Simonienist, a Deist, or even a Materialist. The
Spiritists look upon liberty of conscience as a natural right,
which they allow to others at the same time that they claim it
for themselves; they respect the opinions of others, and demand
that theirs should be respected in return.
“ The natural result of liberty of conscience will be the free
right of research in matters of faith. Spiritism opposes the
principle of blind faith, because it imposes the necessity of
abdicating one’s own judgment, and consequently cannot take
deep root in the mind. Hence, among the number of its
maxims we find the following one:—‘ No system of belief is
built on firm foundations which dares not support the investiga¬
tions of reason throughout all the revolutions of humanity.’
“ In accordance with its principles, it imposes no restraint,
uses no coercion, and desires no other followers but those who
come to it voluntarily and from a sentiment of pure conviction;
it gives the exposition of its tenets, and leaves those free to
embrace them who will.”
At page 357 in the Review of 1869 Allan Kardec says: “ As
to all feelings of envy and jealousy on the part of others, we
possess an infallible means for rendering them innocuous. Let
us endeavour to develops our intelligence, to improve our hearts
and minds. Let us vie with others in the practice of good
works, in the exercise of charity and self-sacrifice. Let the
motto of ‘ Brotherly love ’ be inscribed on our banner, and let
the search after truth be the aim of our existence. Imbued
with the like sentiments, we can defy the raillery of our contra¬
dictors and the ill-will of our enemies. Should we go astray,
let us acknowledge our error, and turn from it: by observing
strictly the laws of charity and self-sacrifice,*by avoiding every
sentiment of envy and jealousy, we are sure of keeping in the
right path. These must be our principles; are they not the
bonds of unity which should draw together all ‘ men of, good
will upon earth,’ whereas egotism and deceitfulness would irre¬
vocably separate them.”
Spiritualists and Spiritists of all countries, let us reflect upon
those memorable words. P. G. Leymarie.
Rue de Lille, Paris.
[It is almost unnecessary to say that hereafter we cannot find room for
any letter on this subject at such length as the above. If there is any
further controversy about reincarnation speculations, no letter on either
side should be more than half a column long, or it probably will not be
published.—Ed.]
HEALING- MEDICMSHIP.
Sir,—Having persuaded Mr. D. D. Home to try the heal¬
ing powers of Dr. Mack, I accompanied him last week to
Dr. Mack’s rooms, and I feel it to be a difty to testify to the
wonderful powers of this mesmeric do6tor. I have known
several great mesmerists, Baron du Potet La Fontaine, Count,
Szapary, and several of less fame, but I deem Dr. Mack’s
power far superior to any of those. His influence on Mr. Home
was simply magical, and Dr. Mack, during his sympathetical
performance—for without contact he feels and cures the disease
of the patient on his own body—came (as I was sitting with
Mr. Home on the sofa) on one of my own diseases, liver complaint.
The consequence was that I noticed the effect of his treatment
in the course of the day. In a subsequent visit, Dr. Mack made
Miss Tilley examine my general state, and the report could
hardly be more satisfactory. In fact, I have seen enough to
induce me to put myself under his treatment with full con¬
fidence in the success. J. N. Tiedeman Martheze.
Fischer’s Hotel, Bond-street, London, W.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AND CONJURERS.
Sir,—I have been investigating the subject of Spiritualism
for nearly four years, have seen most of its phases, and the result
is that I am a firm believer in its manifestations. During this
period I have laboured both publicly and privately to prove its
reality, and have had many tests given mo on which I could
base my arguments. In order to meet the opposition which I
have met with, I have attended Maskelyne and Cooke’s per¬
formances, as well as those of Doctor Lynn, but I confess when
I took a party of friends last week to see his tricks at the
Brighton Pavilion, I was thoroughly nonplussed by his new
cabinet manifestation, and it would be a relief to me if any of
your intelligent readers can account for what is done. Almost
everything I saw was a counterpart of what I have witnessed in
“ test circles.” The cabinet in question is merely a light frame¬
work of iron, around which a curtain is drawn, and open at the
top; the mock medium was bound by the audience, and cer¬
tainly the gentlemen who represented it were not confederates ;
they in most cases left ladies whom they had with them to go
on to the platform, and there was every proof that they had not
even seen Dr. Lynn before. No sooner had the front curtains
been drawn than four or five hands appeared at the top of the
curtain. The ring test was given; the glass of water placed
on the top of the head was drunk, and the glass found on the
floor; and the coat trick performed, besides other things too
numerous to mention. Unless the spirits did this, I am utterly
at a loss to know how to account for it, and my only way out of
the difficulty, when questioned by my friends, was to claim this
part of the performance as a genuine piece of Spiritualism.
Of course I got laughed at, and the more so when I was
reminded that part of the evening’s performance was certainly
conjuring, and if a part, why not the whole ? I am sure the
cause of Spiritualism would gain immensely if Lynn’s seance
could be explained. Dr. Sexton’s account certainly did compass
Dr. Lynn’s first experiments, but I know of no explanation of
what I saw the other night. If I had not paid my money for
an evening with Dr. Lynn, I should have come away from it as
a Spiritualist’s seance with the most perfect assurance that the
manifestations were genuine. I should be glad to know how
other Spiritualists look upon this matter, and to have some clue
given as to the modus operandi. W. A. Dixon.
88, Oaversham-road, Camden-road.
The illuminated address to be presented to Mrs. G. L. V.
Tappan will be on view next week at the Reading-room of the
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury. The subscription list for the testimonial to Mrs.
Tappan will remain open until the Monday of the week following.
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 8, 1875.
#tobtnctai
NEWCASTLE.
A Test Seance.—On Wednesday evening, Sept. 30th, a
seance was held at the house of Mr. Petty, Suffolk-street; and
there were present twelve persons, including the two mediums,
Mrs. Petty and her son Willie. The two mediums sat outside
the cabinet and faced the circle of sitters, their hands being
held by the persons opposite to whom they sat; all other hands
were linked. The light was turned very very low, and after
the spectators had joined in singing, an incessant din came from
the interior of the cabinet, due to showers of raps, ringing of
bells, and fingering the stringed instruments; now and then
one of the instruments was tapped on the head of the person who
sat nearest the curtains of the cabinet. -Noforms came out of
the cabinet, but all persons present were satisfied as to the
genuineness of the phenomena, on account of the strict tost con¬
ditions under which the seance was held.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALIST SOCIETY.
On Thursday evening, last week, over thirty-six of the
members of the Newcastle Spiritual Society met at their rooms
in Weir’s Court, and as Miss Wood was not well, Mr. Petty,
jun., entered the cabinet for the purpose of becoming the
medium for materialisation. He was entranced by a spirit
calling himself Chiko, who stated there was not power enough,
and he called for Miss Fairlamb to come in the cabinet also,
which she did while in the trance state under the control of
Cissey, who had for some time been amusing the company with
humorous remarks. After singing a little while, a small white
figure peeped from the curtains of the ^cabinet, and by means of
raps indicated the wish to have the light lowered, so it was
turned very low; the figure eventually, after several attempts,
came out a few feet from the cabinet, remaining visible some
few minutes and then retired. The height of Chiko was about
three feet, calculating by the height of the back of a chair
near which it stood; the drapery was remarkable for its
exceeding whiteness, and the figure for its smallness and the j
peculiar swaying motion of its walk. Taken altogether, it
seemed an utter impossibility for either of the mediums to have
impersonated it, as|both of the mediums are about five feet high,
and very much stouter likewise, so that in this case cords or
fastenings of any kind were not wanted to secure them, and the
same remarks apply to “ Pokky,” who manifests through the
mediumship of Miss Wood.
On Sunday evening a members’ meeting took place at the
Freemasons’ Hall, when Mr. Armstrong was re-elected president
for the ensuing year; Mr. Mould, vice-president; Mr. Pickup,
secretary; Mr. Miller, treasurer; also a committee of seven or
eight was chosen.
Seance at Mr. Petty’s.—Last Sunday evening a seance was
held at the house of Mr. Petty ; Mrs. Petty and Master Joseph
Petty were the mediums, and sat outside the cabinet in a very
dim light with their faces towards it. There were present, in¬
cluding the mediums, about a dozen persons. Very little went
on inside the cabinet, but outside there grew up from Mrs.
Petty a rather undefined mass of white substance, rising to the
height of the medium’s head, varying at times in shape, size, and
peculiarity of movement, and evidently was an abortive attempt
at materialisation. This was seen by all present. Mr. Mould,
who was present, says he has seen the same thing before; he
says it covered the medium, eventually parted from her, walked
to the company and shook hands, &c., with them. Mr. Rhodes,
who was present last Sunday, says:—“I have seen nothing of1
the kind before, and I might be mistaken; but as I watched
the medium's figure, and this thing apparently grow out of her
till it eventually assumed the size and shape of a baby in long
clothes, with at one time apparently two heads; and also as I
saw her head hanging backward, and this thing crawling as it
were over her chest, neck, and face, on the whole I believe it
was an abortive attempt at materialisation.”
LEICESTER.
THE PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN LEICESTER.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Like most other towns, Leicester has its decided oppo¬
nents of Spiritualism as well as its strenuous supporters. The
society here still holds on, and continually brings the subject
before the public, sometimes drawing forth the anger, and some¬
times the ridicule of its opposers. A paid medium, Mr. Chap¬
man, is at present engaged in holding private seances during the
week, and inpublic trance-speaking on Sundays, in the Society’s
Rooms, Silver street. Some attempts have been made to give
the public the benefit of the healing power which Mr. Chapman
says he possesses, but hitherto with little attendance, and con¬
sequently little result. The Leicester newspapers are divided
on the subject of Spiritualism, for while the daily and weekly
Chronicle and Mercury are inclined to be favourable, the Daily
Post and the weekly Dree Press and Advertiser are on the oppo¬
site side. Many sneering letters have appeared in the Daily
Post, and I see a letter on Spiritualism was crowded out of the
Free Press last week. I suppose we shall have it next week.
Signs, however, seem to indicate that the Daily Post is becom¬
ing a little more reasonable on this subject, exercising its foi’-
bearance even so far as to print in its London coirespondent’s
letter of October 1st a truthful paragraph relative to Spirit¬
ualism. The writer says: “ Spiritualism is exciting more
attention than some of us like to believe. Dr. Davis’s recent
book sold in hundreds, because of his investigation into the
mystic region. Another book dead against.Spiritualism, by Dr.
Mahan, is also selling largely. The Nonconformist had an
article upon the subject a fortnight ago, which sold the edition
as soon as its contents were known, and a special issue is to
be made. Mr. Harrison’s book in favour of the reality of the
phenomena is also selling largely. So that the great philosophers
are likely speedily to be driven perforce to investigate and report.”
Such language as this in a paper which has hitherto always
shouted “ humbug ” is surely a sign of progress. We have here
some good trance-speaking mediums, and also some excellent
test mediums; but some are ill through sitting too often, and
others do not feel that they are required to make a public dis¬
play of their mediumship, and shrink back in their excessive
sensitiveness. It is pleasing to know at the same time that
Spiritualism is quietly working its way among the educated and
thoughtful, and among some of the most respectable families of
the town; and on not a few tables is The Spiritualist news¬
paper to be found. I sincerely trust that the new book Spirit
People will have the large circulation here and elsewhere which
it fully deserves. Clericus.
Leicester.
BIRMINGHAM.
EXTRAORDINARY PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS IN BIRMINGHAM.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Having attended several of Dr. Monck’s seances during
his late visit to Birmingham, I thought I could not do better
than furnish you with the following short report of what took
place at the seances at which I was present. The seances, I may
also state, were held, not at Dr. Monck’s rooms, but in the drawing
room of a large hotel, and also at the private houses of persons
who were anxious to witness the phenomena at their own houses.
The manifestations that occurred in the light were most satis¬
factory. Raps were heard in all parts of the rooms, on the
doors, floors, and on the tables, joining in and keeping up con¬
versations with those present, and even anticipating our answers.
Also in the light, we had numbers of articles moved and carried
from the tables in full view of those present, much to, the
astonishment of some sceptics, who but a few minutes before
had said that such things could not occur.
One of the best seances was held at the private house of a
gentleman well known in this town. Dr. Monck had
never entered the house before. The manifestations were
most powerful. A box placed on the table, belonging to the
lady of the house, moved about and raised itself on end re¬
peatedly at our request, in the light, bear in mind; also, a bell
placed on the top took a journey to the end of the box and went
and fixed itself on the corner, leaning over at an angle of about
forty-five degrees. In this position the box shook itself, stood
up on end, and still the bell remained without falling, and the
pressure brought to bear to hold the bell in this position was so
great that it required considerable force to pull it away. At
times strong vibrations of the room took place in different
directions. Dr. Monck was also elongated in the light con¬
siderably. Dr. Monck then went up to an harmonium in the
room, which was closed and locked, and placing only his two
fingers on the top of the closed lid, the instrument was played
in a violent manner, and could have been heard on the other
side of the street. No mortal hand could reach the keys under the
closed and locked lid. During the dark seance, when Dr. Monck’s
hands were firmly held on each side, luminous hands, large
and small, were seen quite distinctly, likewise brilliant stars,
and, also, on another occasion, a perfectly formed luminous skull.
Heavy mahogany dining-room chairs, quite a distance away
from Dr. Monck, were carried over our heads, and placed
gently and without the slightest noise on the table.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
179
Oct. 8, 1875.
At another seance at a private house the piano was played
with the lid down, and a heavy oak table carried over our heads
at the time that Dr. Monck’s hands were held by two strangers.
Tests were given by persons who had never even seen Dr.
Monck before—scenes and names of towns in India, only known
to a person present, and a perfect stranger. At the house of a
well-known solicitor, while Dr. Monck’s hands were held by two
gentlemen, one a representative of a local paper, a heavy
dinner bell, over four pounds in weight, was carried up and
tolled, at the same time that a small one was being rung vio¬
lently in all parts of the room. At this- house also, in the
light, raps were heard on the door ten feet from where Dr.
Monck was sitting. He was also levitated instantly on the
shoulders of the newspaper reporter above-mentioned. I could
go on filling up pages if I related all that occurred at the dif¬
ferent seances, but fear I have occupied already too much of
your valuable space. I may also add that Dr. Monck was quite
willing to submit to any test required, and gave all those who
attended his seances every opportunity and satisfaction that
could be desired. E. Yalter.
Claremont Villa, 61, Belgrave-road, Birmingham.
LIVERPOOL.
Spiritualism and Methodism.—Mrs. Butterfield, inspira¬
tional medium, of Morley, occupied the platform at the Liver¬
pool Psychological Society’s rooms ’on Sunday, the 4th inst.,
afternoon and evening. Mr. John Lamont, vice-president of the
society, presided on both occasions. On the preceding occasion
of Mrs. Butterfield’s presence in Liverpool, a promise was given
by her guides that they would reply to and consider the
objections offered against modern Spiritualism by the Rev. Mr.
Ashcroft. Mr. John Lamont read an extract from Professor
Clifford’s lecture on “ Superstitions in Modem Times,” and the
comments of the National Reformer thereon* and told how the
distinguished scientist and the chief apostle of the ‘ ‘ Hall of
Science,” as it is called, deal with a question (modem Spirit¬
ualism) of which they are confessedly ignorant. Mrs. Butter¬
field arose, and after an impressive invocation, dealt with
several of the objections raised by the itinerant representative
of Free Church Methodism. The first objection was that the
claims of Spiritualism were pretentious and bombastic. The
speaker remarked that she had also two counter objections to
make: 1st, To the rev. gentleman objecting to the reality of
anything of which he knew nothing, or giving a character
to modem Spiritualism, which pre-supposes that he had inves¬
tigated the question, when in his lecture he declares that he had
not done so, and earnestly advises his hearers to go and do like¬
wise. The second objection was that modern theology was
pretentious and bombastic, as exemplified by the late revivals
and their appurtenances—the penitent form, class meetings,
declaration of the Lord speaking peace to the soul, the an¬
nouncements of conversions nightly made, rather than by the
leading a reformed life, and showing improved character of a
lasting kind. Spiritualism was not so. It invited investiga¬
tion ; it had for its motto “ Freedom of Thought and Speech j”
it called upon men to arise and think and act for themselves.
It was not thus with modern theology; to doubt was to be
damned, to hesitate was perdition, and its perpetual cry was
“ he that believeth not shall be damned.” It was pretentious
also, as it undertook to prepare man for a future state of exist¬
ence. Yet of that state it had no knowledge, nor would it re¬
ceive any. It preached an inane heaven, a stupid existence,
monotonous in the extreme—perpetual rest or harp playing.
Why seek to prepare men for a state or place of which they had
no knowledge ? That was most surely pretentious, but, when
they threatened everlasting punishment, that was, mildly speak¬
ing, bombastic. On telling your minister you had seen a spirit,
he would recommend you to see a doctor and get your head ex¬
amined, or caution your friends to look seriously after you.
Ask him if he believed in spirits, he would answer “ Yes.” Did
he believe in spirit communion? “Yes, in days gone by.” That
God was the same to-day, yesterday, and for ever? “Un¬
doubtedly.” Then His laws are the same? “Undoubtedly.”
Then why should spirit appearances and communion be confined
to the past and not existent in the present? These were
simple questions that had not been answered by the learned
objector. The speaker referred at large to the objective pheno¬
mena as the A B 0 of Spiritualism, practical and ocular demon¬
strations that could not be overthrown, as certain as any other
fact observed and recorded by the investigation of what was
termed physical science. Whatever might be termed preten¬
tious and bombastic, the facts of modem Spiritualism could not
be called so. This, however, could not be said concerning the
unfounded beliefs and assertions of modem theologians.
Spiritualism was objected to as “ ridiculous,” that might mean
anything or nothing; the question was, was the thing itself
ridiculous, or did it only appear so in the eyes of the observer.
The thoughtful and studious geologist might appear ridiculous
in the eyes of the ignorant peasant, as with bag and hammer
he went from crag to crag, knocking off pieces of rock, carefully
putting them away for future examination, when he would from
them no doubt unfold a tale yet untold of the earth’s history.
Because the peasant thought it ridiculous, did that make it so ?
The third objection considered, was “Modem Spiritualism is
unchristian,” by which the reverend gentleman meant “ it was
anti-Methodistical.” Here the speaker drew several able
parallels between Spiritualism in the days of Jesus and the
present time, gifts of healing, and the work at our psychological
institutes throughout the country, &c. The lady was listened to
by a large audience with'great attention.
CHESTER-LE-STREET.
Mr. George Smith, of New Delaval, Northumberland, writes
to complain of our correspondent’s critical remarks about the
mediumship of Mr. Brown, of Howden, but nothing disagreeable
was intended. Mr. Smith truly says:—
‘‘Judge not of men or of things at first sight,
But list to my humble suggestion—
Before you decide on the wrong or the right,
Think well on both sides of the question.
Although with fierce prickles the shell may abound,
Yet the nut is still grateful and pleasant;
So oft may the noblest of natures be found
Beneath the rough garb of the peasant.”
BLACKBURN.
SPIRITUALISM IN BLACKBURN.
Mr. Coates writes:—“ As stated in a previous notice,
Spiritualism does not take a public stand here as yet, although
a genuine work, I am informed, is going on privately throughout
the town. Last Sunday I had the privilege of being present at
one of these seances. The circle was held at the house of, a
prominent herbalist, whose connection with Spiritualism has
somehow or other leaked out, notwithstanding his presence
every Sabbath morning in a congregation of £ miserable sinners.’
I found about twenty persons, serious and thoughtful, seated in
a commodious room—a veritable ‘ upper chamber ’—endeavour¬
ing to solve the mysteries of spirit communion in the dark.
About eight mediums were present, in various stages of develop¬
ment, representing about as many phases of spiritual gifts ; six
of them were found to be mesmeric sensitives by Mr. Meredith
and myself during our stay in the town. Two of them espe¬
cially give favourable indications of becoming excellent clair¬
voyants, one in the apparently normal condition, and the
other under control. After the usual preliminaries, one
of the spirit guides of the writer took control, and in an
impressive address, couched in simple language, gave some
interesting information concerning the holding of circles and
the development of mediumship. For the development
of physical mediumship, he suggested that instead of there
being a large company like that present, that those most in
harmony with the medium, say, three or five—and that number
was quite sufficient—should sit; with a few in unison of heart
and purpose rather than with many, although sincere, who
desired certain manifestations not wished for, perhaps, by the
next person sitting beside them.” He said—“ Sit in a sub¬
dued but pleasant light; place all hands on the table; have
confidence in one another. The first indication of spirit pre¬
sence will be a slight wind like a breath over your hands;
next, the table may tip or raps may be heard ; address the intelli¬
gence present, indicated by the tilts or raps, as you would a friend
or visitor ; use the alphabet when necessary. Should the intel¬
ligence claim to be a relative, do not be too hasty in accepting
or rejecting the statement, but wait patiently the result. Re¬
member you are just learning to receive, as your spirit friends
are learning to communicate. Should a statement be made
which you do not consider true, do not jump to the conclusion
that lying spirits are present, but rather look to the faultiness
of the instruments of communication. Learning lessons of love,
of patience, of wisdom, bearing with one another in spirit, you
will reap the reward of your patient investigation; for depend
upon it, if you are as anxious to investigate as your spirit
friends are to communicate, jrou will not labour in vain.”
After some interesting information concerning the development
of trance, test, inspiration, aud clairvoyant mediumship, the
control bade us good-night. The next control purported to be
Captain Hudson, and singular to relate, the medium’s eyes were
180
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 8, 1875.
open but fixed; a pleasant and agreeable smile continually
played upon his cotmtenance. The control spoke of his antici¬
pations concerning his home in spirit-life, which were all sur¬
passed. When his friends thought he was gone he was still
in their presence in the body; he could hear them speak in
hushed accents, but could not give any indication that he heard
them; he tried to, but failed, for he had no control over his
body. Then there seemed to be a curious confusion of ideas.
It was so strange. His mind was always clear, and in the
midst of it all there stood out distinctly and clearly the words
of a favourite hymn they used to sing at his circles, called
“ Going Home.” Then all became a blank, he lost conscious¬
ness, and gradually awoke to a new bicth unto life in spirit.
He felt an indescribable freshness and vigour, a re-newness
of life better realised than described. The spirit said that
“home” would be complete only when all those he loved in
earth-life formed one unbroken family circle in spirit-life. He
said we were all “ going home.” He did not mean by this our
final home, for he believed that in the bright beyond there
was grander development of the matchless love of the Eternal
Father yet to be revealed to the aspiring spirit. He added:
“ See to your planting, to your growing, to your labour, that
you may not be ashamed of the fruit thereof, when you ‘ go
homo.’” It was really a treat to hear the observations of the
good spirit, so full of spirituality and true earnestness, like the
fervour of the influence that seemed to possess some of the fol¬
lowers of John Wesley. The next control was a spirit who
declined to give any name, but who undertook to answer ques¬
tions. Questions indicating the bias of mind of the inquirer
were then put and answered. > Do you believe in the resurrec¬
tion of the body ? What is your opinion of the Bible ? Is the
Bible statement of the flood correct ? Is it breaking the Lord’s
day to hold seances ? &c., &c. A medium was then controlled
to draw ; his hand with a pencil in it rapidly dotted over the
paper, making all sorts of indescribable lines and configurations,
but ending in nothing definite. I have seen this gentle¬
man’s sketches and drawings, and some of them evinced con¬
siderable taste. A lady who had not walked for many years with¬
out the aid of two sticks, having had the spine seriously injured
when a child, lately under mesmeric treatment walked several
times round the room, under the control of the everywhere present
“ John King,” or some one who takes that gentleman’s name.
Whether the spirit was John King or not, it is of little moment,
the fact remains; the lady walked up and down at first with a
little assistance, such as her little finger in the hand of the
writer, like a child holding to a straw to give it confidence, and
then alone she essayed the task. Had this been told her three
weeks ago, no doubt she would have thought that the speaker
was exceedingly cruel to flaunt her with her unfortunate
position. This evidence of spirit power had a palpable effect
on every one in the room who knew the lady, and who rejoiced
to see her walk. It is to be hoped she will soon have as much
control over her own body as did this spirit.
Mh. D. D. Home has been spending a few days in London,
and is now at Carcassonne, in France.
The Belgian Spiritist Congress.—This Congress took place
at Brussels on the 25th and two following days, and was at¬
tended by delegates from about twenty provincial societies. The
result was the formation of a national organisation under the
name of Federation Beige Spirite et Magn&tique, and the adop¬
tion of the rules drawn up by the Union Spirite of Brussels.
M. Leymarie was present, and several representatives of French
Spiritual societies. The opening discourse was given by M.
Anthelme Fritz, President of the Union.
National Association Seance.—On Monday evening last
a private seance was given by Mrs. Everitt to some of the
members of the British National Association of Spiritualists, at
its rooms in 38, Great Russell-street. Owing, it was said, to
the moist state of the atmosphere, the manifestations, as regards
the spirit lights and perfumed breezes, were not quite so
powerful as is usual at Mrs. Everitt’s seances, but there was
some interesting conversation with the spirits, who were able
to produce the direct voice with considerable power, to the
delight and satisfaction of all present. There was also a strong
trembling motion in the table before the light was extinguished,
and raps were heard in profusion during the whole of the
seance, which was of fully two hours’ duration. Mrs. Everitt
vyas found to be in a deep trance when the gas was relighted,
and appeared much fatigued afterwards. Spiritualists owe a
deep debt of gratitude towards mediums who freely give their
services for the pleasure of others, and in which they are them¬
selves unable to participate.
BUGUET’S CONFESSION.
Just before going to press we have received from Mr. O’Sul¬
livan, Paris, the following copy of Buguet’s confession:—
To his Excellency, M. Dufaure, Minister of Justice in France.
As an act of homage to the truth, I make freely the following
declarations.
Before, and at the time of my arrest, I was very much indis¬
posed, and this had led me for some time to employ artifices to
supply the deficiency of my mediumship. Unfortunately I was
a tradesman as well as a medium, and when my faculty failed
me I regretted to see customers go away, and the money which
should have been mine.
It was under those circumstances that I was surprised by the
police, and compelled to show what has been called my trick.
I was strongly urged to stand to that position, because, as I was
told, I should not be condemned.
The cells of the prisons of the Conciergerie and of Mazas pro¬
duced on me the most wretched effect. I preferred death to
passing a whole year in them. Also when, in the instruction
(private inquisition by an examining magistrate) it was re¬
peated to me that I should maintain the position (soutenir') that
mediumship had no existence, because I should only be con¬
demned to a simple fine, while if I said the contrary, I should
have an imprisonment, I thought then that by my denying my
mediumship M. Leymarie and Firman would be set at liberty,
because they could not be condemned to more than the principal
party accused.
This deplorable lino of action, contrary to the truth, unfortu¬
nately I pursued.
M. Leymarie, to whom the Judge of Instruction had read my
answers, written and signed, refused to shake hands with me (I
was at liberty, and he a prisoner). Afterwards in the Judge’s
corridor I was accused of being sold to the Jesuits. Furious,
and quite out of myself, for I had only meant well, I wrote a
letter to the Judge of Instruction, a deplorable letter, inasmuch
as I sought to incriminate M. Leymarie, who was always so kind
and fraternal towards me. I regret having, in my weakness,
said what was contrary to the truth in disavowing my medium-
ship, and I beg pardon to God for this action which I deplore,
since it has served to incriminate estimable men, whose good
faith has been subjected to suspicion through my incritninations.
I declare that there was nothing which could have opened M.
Leymarie’s eyes (lien n'a pu edaircr') to the means or artifices
which were sometimes employed by me. A pressure to which
I do not venture to give a name (gme pression qve je n’ose quali¬
fier}, and the dread of imprisonment, alone determined me to
persist in the bad line of action (inauvais systems') which I now
see tended to procure the condemnation of the editor of the
Review, and consequently of Spiritism.
Yes, I am a medium, and it is thanks to my faculty that two-
thirds of the photographs with the appearance of spirits are
true. The other third have been obtained through artificial
means when I was ill and suffering. I affirm that seventy per
cent, of the genuine spirit photographs have been recognised.
In London all the pictures obtained were genuine and without
trickery.
If chance is to be introduced (invoqui} in what relates to a
photographic resemblance, it must be accepted for the photograph
of M. Poiret, which is in very reality a mediumistic picture
(production) of a spirit.
I also declare that all my affirmations before the Court in
regard to Firman are false. He never posed to me with his
eyes shut. He is a straightforward (loyel) and honest young
fellow, and I have always regarded him as such.
Be pleased, Monsieur the Minister of Justice, to use these
explicit (fonnelles) declarations to render homage to the truth,
and to repair in part the grave injury which my former declara¬
tions may have caused to the innocent parties associated in the
accusation against me (ines co-accuses innocents).
(Signed) Ed. Buguet.
(Signed) Ed. Buguet, Ch. Fritz, Augustin Boyard.
I, the Honorary Consul Chancelier of the Legation of France
in Belgium, the undersigned, certify that the above signature is
truly that of Monsieur Ed. Buguet, and that it has been this day
written in my presence and in that of Messieurs Charles Fritz,
confectioner, Rue de Louvain, 121, and Augustin Boyard, civil
engineer, Avenue de la Reine, 104, who have attested the person¬
ality of the signer.—Brussels, 27th September, 1875.
The Honorary Consul, Chancelier,
(Signed) F. de Thanqualze.
[Seal of the French
Republic at Brussels.]
Number in order, 2,349 ; Art. 63 of the Tarif. F. do T.
Oct. 8, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG 5T, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SAM AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
88, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE. LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s. ; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN T’RE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s "Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of Interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Infonnation about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING- SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of essays on
the social. Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Gd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prmts the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a waiter of un¬
questioned abihty. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age ;
Science and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection: the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600 pp. Cloth IQs. Gd.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences, is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7e. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar-
Alien Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth.Best edition. Gilt, 10s. Gd.; cheap edition, 7s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seanc.es at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 8s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Od.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), Od.
HEAVaN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Lund. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SP1R
M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. Gd.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. Od.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET^ by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. Gd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM
7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Medium ship
of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d. ,
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P
Barkas .
APPARITIONS; A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
URITUALISM, by
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By O. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Artsl
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 3s. Gd.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
•f the "Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST/ Oct. 8, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.' ’
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . .
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . • . .
The Seer. .. „III,' . , .
The Reformer. „ IV. . • i
The Thinker.' ,, V. : „ . . . , '. / •
Magic Stafif. An Autobiography-ot A. J. Davis ....
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . .
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology ....
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People .
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life .......
History and Philosophy of Evil ......
Harbinger of Health ........
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age.
'Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) ....
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . .
I’ree Thoughts Concerning Religion. . . ,
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answer's ....
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves ....
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . ■ .
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime .
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . ' , ,
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . . ? .
Morning Lectures . . , , ; . i ' .
s. d.
. 15 0
..76
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 7 6
.76
. 4 0
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
, 4 0
. 4 0
. 7 6
.40
. 7 6
. 3 0
. 4 0
. 8 0
. 6 6
. 7 6
• |. 7 6
. 6 0
.60
, 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . . .. . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .. . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Gwen . . .76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre-
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M, A. . . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous -
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . ...20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . , . . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
• for Schools . . . . . . .10
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT ii SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is. <
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY. YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MED1UMSH1P, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazards 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
-“ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet : “ There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 0. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
fPHE ISLINGTON PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION
1 FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. Mrs. Bullock and other healers in attendance daily from 11 a.m.
till 2 p.m., Sundays from 11 ,a.m. till 1 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, prin¬
cipals.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—~Mx. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. Gr,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton,
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron's Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as thiyAngel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the' direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERN OSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.C
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, 'Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 6.
THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM is discussed
in the number of the NONCONFORMIST for Wednesday', eep-
tember 15th, in an elaborate Essay reviewing all the recent works on the
subject, and referring to late personal experiences. By a Man of Science.
Sent by post on the receipt of Fivepence. 18, Bouverie-street, Fleet-
street, E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. Georg# the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
. Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
