AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
NO. 143.—(Vol. YL—No. 21.)
LONDON: MAY 21, 1875.
Published Weekly: Price Twopence*
Contents.
The Reliability of the Records of Spiritual Manifestations *
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—
New Members—Finance Committee’s Report—Furnishing the New
Offices—Family Tickets to the Reading-Room—Votesiof Thanks—
The Annual Meeting and the Election of the New Council—The
Board of Trade and the National Association—Works of Art at the
Bazaar—Suggested Formation of a Philosophical Department of
the National Association, and the Appointment of a Scientific Com¬
mittee ...     
A Seance with Mrs. Everitt. By Emily KMingbury 
The Bazaar next Week ... ... -...• ...     
Spiritualism and the English Government...  
The Psychological SocietyFirst Ordinary Meeting of the Psycho¬
logical Society—The Phenomena of Sleep and Dream—Are Dreams
Incongruous ?—How to make Sleeping Persons Talk—Dreams about
Bodily Death—The Psychology of Memory   
The Gifts t f the Spirit and the Gift of Tongues  
Poetry Jenny Lind     
Correspondence: —Spiritualism in St. Petersburgh—Spiritual Phe¬
nomena in Northampton *      
The Phenomena of Sleep and Dream. No. I. B* Edward W.Cox, Ser¬
jeant-at-law:—The Bodily and Mental Conditions in Sleep—Only
Portions of the Brain active in Dreams—The Duality of the Mind—
The Dreams of Blind Men—No Sense of Incongruity in Dreams—
In Dreams Ideas become Facts—Differences between the Sleeping
and Waking Mind   ...       
Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris   ...
Answers to Corresponden's   ...  
Paragraphs:—Open-air Meetings in Livernool, 245; Dr. Sexton at
Goswell Hall. 249; Spanish Societies of Spiritualists, 251; Brixton
Psychological Society, 251; The Mediumship of Mr. Parke?, 252;
National Association Library, 252; The Dalston Association of
Spiritualists     I  ... ...
241
243
245
246
246
247
248
249
250
252
252
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the JointrStock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet ccntainiDg full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager,
A BAZAAR,
The first of the kind ever attempted, will be held in the Hall of the
CO-OPERATIVE INSTITUTE,
55, Castle-street East, Oxford-street, near Regent’s Circus, on Wednes-
day, Thursday, and Friday next, the 26th, 27th, and 28th of May.
Open, each day from 12 until 9 p.m.
THERE WILL ALSO BE 1
AN EXHIBITION OF SPIRITUALIST WORKS OF ART i
AND OF OTHER CURIOSITIES,
i
Kindly lent by their Owners; and a
Number of Spiritual Paintings, Drawing®, Photographs, and objects of
interest will be on Sale.
The Articles in the Bazaar, which will he of an ornamental and useful
character, will be marked at reasonable, not at extravagant, prices.
The Royal Osborne Hand-Bell Ringers will give an entertainment on
Wednesday evtning.
On Thursday evening Mrs. A. E. Fay, the distinguished medium, will
give one of her light seances which have exerted so much interest and as¬
tonishment.
On Friday evening a number of attractions will he provided.
Refreshments at moderate charges.
Admission:—On Wednesday and Thursday, One Shilling; on Friday!
Sixpenbe. The money returnable to purchasers. Children, half-price.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held ia Liverpool, at which
all (he great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were reoresented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five thillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible tor election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the\Associatioo, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.G., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may he had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
Light refreshments supplied at moderate charges.
A /Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On, the first Wednesday of each month untilfurther notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and tor the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d.-
To be obtained in advance of the resident secretary, Miss Kislingbury, S8,
Great Russell street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALI STS.
OF
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject:
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, jE'O.
The competition is open to all British ff ra or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British Naiion&l Association of
Spiritualism.
The essays to he forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Rus-.ell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can he had on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat 21, 1875,
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MES“
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER,
38, GEE AT EUSSELL-STBEET, BLOOMSBUET, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in ‘Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work
containing interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality
of spirit communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the
author’s views of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian
Church. 7s. 6d.
THE IDENTITY OF PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODEEN SPIEITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D. A valuable
work, containing useful information relating to the Scientific and
Religious aspects of Spiritualism, and replete with well authenticated
descriptions of manifestations. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete
with well authenticated narratives describing manifestations produced
by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical SocietyThis committee consisted of literary, scientific, and
other professional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years
without engaging the services of any professional medium, after which
they published the report. Original edition, 15s.: abridged edition,
5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by 'William Crookes, F.B.S. The best work ever published to scientifi¬
cally demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Bussell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in
reply to Hume’s Essay on Miracles. It also records a large number of
interesting spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal
experiences of Mr. Wallace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual
phenomena. Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to
Religion and Science is also given. 6s.; New edition, 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt
edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of
essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism.
3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving
general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism.
3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law, An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of
the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are pro¬
duced by an alleged Psychic Force, unconsciously governed in its
action by the thoughts of the medium or the spectators. 8s. The
first vol. of this book, which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of
print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G..
Lee, D.C.L. This newly published book contains Facts and Traditions
relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and
Witchcraft. The author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but
considers Modem Spiritualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives
valuable facts, previously unpublished, and prints the only authorised
and complete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCE OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s.6d.
WILL ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Frse Will. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND, by Maria M. King. 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, by Lizzie Doten. Best edition, gilt.
10s. 6d.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott
14s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA- IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 12s. 6d. -
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s! 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Vol. I., 7s. 6d.
Vols. II and III 8s. each.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHTSIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
s. d.
Natures’ Divine Revelations      17 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia    7 6
The Teacher. „ II. „      7 6
The Seer. - „ lit. „     7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. „     7 6
The Thinker. „ V. „    ,  7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis 1  7 6
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land       4 0
Arabula, or Divine Guest  7 6
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology    5 0
Answers to fiver-recurring Questions from the People   7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual    3 6
Death and the After-Life  4 0
History and Philosophy of Evil :  4 0
Harbinger of Health  * 7 6
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age   4 0
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memorander.)     7 6
Philosophy of Special Providence    3 0
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion     4 0
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers  8 0
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse     6 6
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained   7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves   7 6
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings  5 0
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime   5 0
Diakka, and their Earthly Victims   3 0
CongugalLove; Trath «. Theology    3 0
Morning. Lectures  7 6
THE LIVEBPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont,
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
E. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE, by Lizzie Doten. Last edition,
gilt 10s. 6d.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. Newton. Is.' 3d.
LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell, Is. 3d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
. DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF . LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE object of the Committee and of the Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and precious
truths of Spiritualism. We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com¬
munion,
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
 Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, L
VOtUJVlE £IX. J^UjVIBEF? TWENTY-ONE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 21st, 1875.
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings pertinch.
Seduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding. _
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd. ,
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 1,1 The Spiritualist''' in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always he informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then he ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Staweli.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street. .
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
JJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1, —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—A, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE RELIABILITY OF THE RECORDS OF
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
The following letter has been sent to this journal
for publication:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—In the article headed “ Recognisable Spirits ” in The
Spiritualist of May 14th, you observe “ that one of the most
triumphant proofs of the reality of spiritual communications
which can possibly be conceived would be the appearance of
the departed to their relations still living.” You proceed by
noticing that—“ Although news has come to this country from
America of the appearance of the veritable spirits of the
departed to their relations still living, these phenomena have
not yet been so verified in this country as to carry weight.”
Allow me to call your attention to the many published
reports of the appearance of spirits to their living relations,
during the seances held at Messrs. Bastian and Taylor’s, by
what is known as Mr. Ronald’s circle.
At those seances, held every Tuesday evening for many
weeks, there appeared five or six different spirits who were
fully recognised by their respective relations.
There could be no possible mistake as to the identity of
these spirits, of whom on two occasions I had an excellent
view, for they were all different in form and feature, and not
one of them bearing the slightest resemblance to Mr. Bastian,
the medium.
1. There was the very remarkable form of Mr. Ronald’s
brother, standing upwards of six feet in height, who allowed
me closely to scrutinise his features, and actually to pass my
hand down his luxuriant beard. I saw this spirit sit down at
a table and write a long letter to his brother, who told me
that he recognised the writing.
2. Mr. Regan’s brother-in-law, frequently recognised by Mr.
and MrsL Regan, and distinctly seen by the other members of
the circle.
3. The brother of Col. S., whose features I distinctly saw
and have already described in your pages, and who actually
bore the family crest on his Scotch bonnet. This spirit had a
very soldierlike bearing, and seemed to move with remarkable
ease. Col. S. has already fully described the appearance of
his brother.
4. The wife of Mr. Cottrell, unmistakably recognised by that
gentleman.
5. The husband of Mrs. W., whose features I also described
in The Spiritualist; and two or three other forms, whom I
refrain from naming simply because I was not near enough to
discern their features.
Some of the living relations of these spirit-forms have
already published their evidence as to the identity of the said
spirits, and the evidence of such witnesses would undoubtedly
be at once accepted as conclusive in any court of justice, when
affecting the lives or property of their fellow-citizens.
Of course there still remains the objection that these ap¬
pearances may possibly have been the work of cheating spirits,
but that objection I apprehend can never be satisfactorily
proved or disproved, for doubtless there are limits and always
will be limits to our knowledge of this mysterious subject.
Whether Florence or any of the Katies and Peters have been
able to prove their identity I know not; but as regards the
“ duplication theory,” I am perfectly convinced that it fails in
the case of the first-named spirit.
I have had the privilege of closely beholding Florence on
some seven or eight different occasions, and I was twice
allowed to pass my forefinger down her nose, my' senses of
sight and touch proving to me in the most satisfactory manner
that there was not the slightest resemblance between her and
her medium.
I was also present when a talented portrait painter was
allowed to approach very close to this spirit, and I heard him
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 21, 1875.
assert that the two faces were very different as to all their
features.
Some people are certainly endowed with very vivid imagina¬
tions, and a few of these may have fancied a resemblance that
really did not exist; but the same people—if partial to the
duplication theory—might possibly fancy they could detect
a striking likeness between a very pretty girl and the late
Emperor of the French.
I have never witnessed the elongation of a medium; but
from what I have heard from those who have been so fortunate,
such elongation and the alteration of size and stature which
takes place when spirit forms alternately lose and gain power
must present’ as different phenomena as one can possibly con¬
ceive. J. J.
Tottenham, May Ifith.
The alleged recognisable spirit manifestations at
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor’s are open to considerable
criticism for the following reasons:—
1. They are professional mediums who have shown
the full-form phenomena only on their own premises,
and have refused to attempt to obtain them elsewhere.
2. While thus holding them upon their own premises,
they have refused, as Mr. and Mrs. Holmes did, to try
to obtain the phenomena in a simply-constructed cabi¬
net, but have used bed-rooms and adopted a complicated
method of asking a committee to seal doors and windows
with strips of paper, and to search the beds and large
pieces of furniture, as did Mr. and Mrs. Holmes.
When the full-form manifestations of Messrs. Bastian
and Taylor first began, we pointed out to them that the
hanging of a black curtain across one corner of their
drawing-room would form an inexpensive, easily-
constructed test cabinet, and do away with the
necessity for tying and sealing the medium. Mr.
Malcolm Taylor told us that this plan could not be
adopted, because the landlady would not permit more
nails to be driven into the walls than were in them at
present. Considering that two or even four holes, such
as would be made by thin nails, would scarcely be
visible, and, remembering that the lodgers in the
house during the past year have for the most part
been spiritual mediums, the landlady in this matter
has been very hard upon her best supporters.
8. They have placed impediments in the way of
friendly and experienced observers who desired to in¬
vestigate the phenomena. When they first came to
England, Mr. Crookes asked them for facilities to
examine their manifestations; Mr. Malcolm Taylor
told us that the reason why they refused Mr. Crookes
such facilities was that they could make more money
by giving public seances.
4.. The light was so bad on the solitary occasion when
they gave us an opportunity of observing the full forms,
that none of the features of those forms could be seen;
hence it is hard to understand how they could be re¬
cognised. Captain James has stated that he once
recognised the features, but his record, after six obser¬
vations, that “ Florence ” bears “ not the slightest
resemblance” to Miss Showers, proves his liability to
error, as Mrs. Showers can testify.
5. As to the published accounts of recognitions
written by third parties, and not drawn up and signed
with the names and addresses of those who actually
made the recognitions, such irresponsible testimony is
worthless. We attended the Holmes’s seances for
weeks to find one good case of recognition of a deceased
person, but no such case occurred; no face came in a
clear light, so that its features could be seen by all
present, and then identified by one truthful, honourable
witness. The faces sometimes asserted themselves to be
related to persons present, and sometimes excitable
people recognised faces where the darkness was too
intense for the features to be seen; sometimes spectators,
in a doubtful kind of way, would express the opinion
that they saw some relative of theirs. Such things as
these, dubious and doubtful to those present, were
seized upon by sensational reporters, and published as
most wonderful cases of recognition.
Our correspondent speaks of five or six different
spirits who were fully recognised by their respective
relatives. One of those relations, who has been stated
in print to have recognised his ^departed wife at Mr.
Bastian’s seances over and over again, told us last
Saturday that when he obtained a fair look at the face
of the form, he found that the features did not bear the
slightest resemblance to those of his wife, but he
thought that there was some slight resemblance to her
as she appeared in death when lying in her coffin. He
also said that he was almost sure that he saw her sink
into the floor—still the light was not good. A sensa¬
tional writer might give all this as an example of a
wonderful case of recognition of a departed spirit and
of the rising and sinking of that spirit through the
floor beyond all manner of doubt. We saw several
cases of what some of the spectators called “ melting
away ; ” the light was bad, and the forms, dimly seen
behind the opened curtains merely appeared to bow as
the curtains fell together ; thus their heads were sinking,
and the lower parts of their bodies were not then seen,
because they were too far back in the darkness of the
cabinet.
Take again the case of the alleged spirit of the
brother of Mr. Ronalds. We, like our correspondent,
have seen the, great black beard of the apparition
hanging over the white dress, but cannot say that tho
said beard gave proof of the identity of the spirit, any
more than did the white robes; the light was too low
to show any of the features. Many people in the circle,
with the exception of Mr. Ronalds, said that night
that it was his brother, so that any reporter present
might have repeated that statement as a fact. When
spirits cannot be seen so clearly that everybody present
is able to testify that they are actually recognisable,
supposing them to be seen by any of their relatives, the
next best thing to do is to take the testimony of the
solitary individual who asserts that he has seen them
distinctly enough to recognise them. For instance, if Mr.
Ronalds has seen his brother he ought to write a letter
to the following effect, instead of leaving irresponsible third
parties to give their version:—“ I have distinctly seen
the features of the spirit who appeared at the seance of
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, so that I know beyond all
question that it was my brother. He wrote me a long
letter, and on comparing the handwriting with that
written by my brother before he departed from earth, I
find that there is no difference between the two, just as
was the case with Mr. Livermore’s departed wife when
she wrote messages to him through the mediumship of
Kate Fox. I have also compared the handwriting of
the spirit with the handwriting of Mr. Bastian, and I
append lithographic copies of both, to show that there
is no resemblance between them. I will place lengthy
specimens of the handwriting of my spirit brother, of
my brother before he departed this life, and of Mr.
Bastian, on public view side by side in a glazed frame at
the bazaar next week. The long letter which my spirit
brother wrote to me is not worded in vague and general
terms, but speaks of facts and dates and occurrences
known only to him and myself. In witness whereof I
Mat 21, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
243
now publish, the said letter in full.” Such a letter as
this from Mr. Ronalds would be of the nature of evidence.
Mr. Ronalds should append his full address to his com¬
munication.
Where the light is so bad that the features of the
spirits cannot be seen by all the spectators at once, the
onus of authenticating such a gigantic truth as that of
recognisable spirits must fall upon the individual who
actually identifies them and not upon irresponsible third
parties present who do not see the features, or, if they
do see them, cannot say whether their owners are re¬
lated to other persons present or not.
The Holmes’s were very powerful mediums. They
gave seances on their own premises in London, and
without properly constructed cabinets, just as Messrs.
Bastian and Taylor have been doing, the difference
being that the Holmes’s exhibited the faces in a
better light, and gave greater facilities for exami¬
nation by experienced observers; yet the Holmes’s
thoroughly deceived Mr. Dale Gwen, and mixed
up a large amount of imposture with genuine mani¬
festations. We would not for the world insinuate
that Messrs. Bastian and Taylor have been doing the
same. As a matter of opinion and not of evidence, we
think Mr. Bastian an excellent medium, who might
have become very popular in London, and aided the
cause considerably had his manifestations been produced
under better conditions. Gentlemen of honour and truth
certified the genuineness of some of the Holmes’s mani¬
festations, but were sorry afterwards that their names
had ever been mixed up with the doings of such
mediums; hence, when Messrs. Bastian and Taylor
began to use a bed-room as a cabinet, and to adopt
the same tests as the Holmes’s, most of the London
Spiritualists have kept away from the seances altogether.
Had Mr. • Bastian been better known to Spiritualists
personally, and had he and his partner used a pro¬
perly-constructed cabinet, their career in this country
would have been successful, and their seances well
attended.
The whole question, however, of the exactitude of
the testimony about their recent full-form seances, can
be settled by placing upon public view the three letters
already mentioned.
As to the other point raised by our correspondent,
the full forms through the mediumship of Miss Showers
belong to that class which has been thoroughly well
studied in this country—that is to say, that mediums
who get powerful direct voice manifestations, raps,
table motions, and the floating of musical instruments
about a dark room, can, by sitting for them, easily
develope spirit forms which are more or less the dupli¬
cates of their own, although varying in size. Such
forms may possibly vary from their mediums in the
curvature of the nose. But if our correspondent
means that the form of which he speaks is the mate¬
rialised spirit of a departed person, bearing no re¬
semblance whatever to the medium, Mrs. Showers
can give evidence to the contrary. She watched in a
strong light the development of these marvellous mani¬
festations with much anxiety, and for whole months
was in doubt whether duplication of form ever took
place; she thought Florence was her daughter in a trance,
the features were so much alike. Scores of other wit¬
nesses in London are familiar with this strong resem¬
blance. Photographs by Mr. Crookes are now on
public view in the reading-room of the National
Association, showing the strong resemblance of Katie
King to Mrs. Corner (Florence Cook), but proving the
variation in dimensions. In the experiments in con¬
nection with Mrs. Fay’s mediumship at Mr. Crookes’s,
her resemblance to the materialised spirit was seen and
published. The resemblance between John King and
Mr. Williams is far more difficult to see, because of the
great black beard of John King, the profusion of
drapery, and the peculiar phosphorescent light, but is
clear enough to those who take special note of the eyes
and cheek bones of both faces within a short period.
All these facts have long been well known, and have
been amply discussed in print over and over again.
In conclusion, we may point out the difference be¬
tween reliable and inconclusive evidence. At the last
seance given by Miss Showers, and reported in this
journal, her cabinet was not abed-room with doors and
windows, as used by Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, but it
consisted of the bare walls of one corner of the draw¬
ing-room with a black cloth nailed across the angle.
While the hands and feet of Miss Showers were in
sight (a large portion of the lower part of the cloth
being cut away for the purpose), the materialised hands
of the spirits tied a bow knot in a long strip of calico
placed over her shoulders, with the ends hanging down
in front. Also, while her hands and feet were in sight,
the spirits raised a tumbler of water to her lips, so that
she drank most of its contents; and all this time she
could not move her head; a strip of calico having been
passed round her neck, and by it her head was tied to
a staple driven into the wall—a circumstance which we
omitted to mention in the last report. Further, nearly
all of the witnesses present were persons whose names
are household words in Spiritualism, who have had long
years of experience in the nature of all kinds of mani¬
festations, and in the testing of mediums.
Sir Charles Isham has sent us an account of a seance
with Miss Showers, at which Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
and Mrs. Mitchell were present. In the course of his
narrative he says :—
Miss Showers’s maid held up a shawl in front of her for a
short time. When it was taken down, her wrists were found
corded to a chair in front of her so tightly as to cause them
to swell in a manner painful to behold. I was then invited to
seal the final knot. The shawl being readjusted, a hand in
rapid motion immediately appeared above it; then another
larger one, with rings on the fingers. The room being well-
lighted with gas, Miss Showers could see the hands coming
from and returning into her body. A heavy rose-wood chair
was then quickly hung on to her arm; both her arms were
still tied; and, after being examined, the chair was as quickly
taken off. I then untied the knots, about twelve in number,
some of which were pressing into the flesh, making it difficult
to get at them.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
On Tuesday evening last week a Council meeting of the
British National Association of Spiritualists took place at
their rooms, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
under the presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The other
members present were Mr.Morell Theobald, Captain J. James,
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Everitt, Mr. E. Dawson Bogers, Mr.
George King, Mr. Keningale Cook, Mr. Edward T. Bennett,
Mr. Began, Miss Houghton, and Mr. Joseph Freeman.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
NEW MEMBERS.
The following ladies and gentlemen were then elected mem¬
bers of the Association—Miss A. Clemiis, the Bev. Thomas
Colley, Mr. A. T. T. Petersen, Mr. Whitear, Mr. Gollingwood
(who is not a Spiritualist, but has joined the Association
because it promotes research into the subject), Mrs. Stone,
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
‘ May 21, 1875.
Miss Edith Stone, Mr. C. E. Williams, and Mr. J. K.
Worcester.
The resignation of Dr. Davies was accepted.
FINANCE COMMITTEE’S REPORT.
The report of the Finance Committee to date was then read,
and showed a balance in hand of £79 6s. 2d. It recommended
payment of bills to the amonnt of £28 15s. The remaining
outstanding liabilities of the Association were estimated at £10.
The Secretary reported that some of the persons to whom
applications had been sent for their subscriptions for 1874
had paid them in, so that only four remained unpaid for that
year. She wished the members of the Association to remem¬
ber that those of them who had not paid their subscriptions
for the present year (1875) would not be able to vote at the
general meeting at the close of this month, unless they made
their remittances in the interim.
FURNISHING THE NEW OFFICES.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers reported that the Council had voted
the Furnishing Committee £150 to be expended in furnishing
the new offices, and that the Committee had spent £1113s. 3d.
more than that amount; the vouchers and a full account of
the sums expended were lying upon the table. Some further
small articles were required to complete the furnishing, and if
the Council were to make the Committee another grant of £20,
he thought that that would cover the whole of the expenses of
furnishing, with the exception of the one large room which it
was not proposed to furnish at present.
It was then resolved that the account and receipts be re¬
ferred to the Finance Committee for verification, and that a
further sum of £20 be paid to the Furnishing Committee, to
enable them to complete their work.
Mr. E. T. Bennett said that about £12 more had been re¬
cently paid in to the Guarantee Fund. It must be remembered
that the whole expense of furnishing had been covered by the
Guarantee Fund, so that the ordinary resources of the
Association had not been drawn upon for this purpose.
FAMILY TICKETS TO THE READING-ROOM.
Miss Kislingbury reported that most of the new members of
the Association entered their names for a subscription of £1
Is. a year, because that sum enabled them to use the reading-
room and library. But when many Spiritualists resided in
the same house, it was frequently the case that the family
could not afford, or did not desire to pay, £1 Is. each for the
admission of all its members to the reading-room. She
therefore recommended that if one member of a family paid
£l Is. a year as a member of the Association, all the other
members of the family residing in the same house should be
entitled to a reading-room ticket each, provided that they en¬
rolled themselves as members of the Association, which they
could do on payment of five shillings per annum each.
The suggestion was thought to be a very good one, and it
was unanimously adopted.
The Secretary said that she wished the reading-room to be
closed at an earlier hour on Saturday night than during the
rest of the week, because it was inconvenient to her to remain
so late on Saturday evenings.
The consideration of this subject was postponed.
VOTES OF THANKS.
A vote of thanks was then passed by the Council to Messrs.
Calder, Partridge, Blyton, Tredwen, Coleman, Whitear, Slater,
Riko, Chinnery, Martheze, Crowell, King, Oxley, Pearce, and
Serjeant Cox, for donations of books or papers to the library.
A vote of thanks was also passed to Mr. Harrison for the free
insertion in The Spiritualist of advertisements relating to the
library and the prize essays.
THE ANNUAL MEETING AND THE ELECTION OF THE NEW
COUNCIL.
Mr. E. D. Rogers reported that circulars had been issued
requesting members of the Association to send in their nomi¬
nations of persons to serve on the Council which is to be
elected at the close of this month. The nominations had
been sent in, a list had been made out, and had been
examined and verified; it would be read at the general meet¬
ing. The old rules provided that the number of members of
Council should not exceed seventy, but under the new rules,
which had been adopted and submitted to the Board of Trade,
it was provided that the number of the members of Council
should not exceed one hundred. Eighty-nine ^members had
been nominated to serve on the new Council, and (as in Par¬
liamentary and other elections (they were appointed by virtue
of their nomination, since more than the number that could
be elected had not been nominated. He was glad that they
were not to have a contested election, for although it showed
a healthy state of things when the nominations were in excess
of the number of persons that could be appointed and when
there were contests for a seat on the Council, at the same time
it would have been a matter of regret if some friends who
might have been useful on the Council were among those not
elected. The annual meeting would be formally held on the
19th of May, as stated in the circulars, but no business would
be then transacted, as it was intended to adjourn it until the
26th of May at 7.30 p.m., when they could have the use of the
Co-operative Hall for the purpose without incurring any further
expense, since the bazaar would then be held on the same
premises, although not in the same room.
THE BOARD OF TRADE AND THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. E. D. Rogeirs then read a letter from the Secretary of
the Board of Trade, refusing to register the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, on the ground that it did not come
within the meaning of the clause in the Companies Act of
1867, empowering the Board of Trade to register societies
formed to promote “art, science, religion, or any other useful
purpose.” Mr. Rogers added that practically the Association
could not help itself without going to law, in which case it was
said to be possible to get a writ of mandamus, and to compel
the Board of Trade to carry out the provisions of the Act.
But such a course, though legal, was not advisable, and the
Board of Trade was probably acting in ignorance of the facts
of the case ; therefore he thought that the Registration Com¬
mittee had better be authorised to draw up a reply explaining
the objects and work of the Association.
The Registration Committee was then empowered to act as
Mr. Rogers had suggested.
WORKS OF ART AT THE BAZAAR.
The Secretary reported that all the preparations for the
bazaar were going on nicely, and that boxes of goods sup¬
plied by friends were arriving nearly every day.
Mr. Bennett said that the loan of works of art, such as spirit
drawings or other subjects connected with Spiritualism, would
be very useful to the Bazaar Committee if friends would send
them for the purpose of exhibition.
Mr. Morell Theobald gave notice that he would move that
all future ordinary meetings of the Council shall be held on
Tuesday evenings.
It was resolved that the new Journal of Psychological Medi¬
cine should be taken in regularly for use in the reading-room.
SUGGESTED FORMATION OF A PHILOSOPHICAL DEPARTMENT OF
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, AND THE APPOINTMENT OF A
SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE.
The following letter from Mr. W. H. Harrison was then
read:—
“ 38, Great Bussell-st., W.O., May 10th, 1875.
“ To the Council of the National Association of Spiritualists.
“ Ladies and Gentlemen,—A few weeks ago Mr. Charles
Blackburn, of Manchester, asked me to get estimates of cost
of galvanometrical apparatus and a cabinet, in order that he
might present the same to our Association for the purpose of
testing those mediums for materialisation phenomena who
may ask to have their powers examined by the method first
put in practice by Messrs. Yarley and Crookes.
“ The apparatus used by those gentlemen was made for the
special purpose of testing Atlantic cables, and for other work
requiring exact measurements. I thought that it might be of
more interest if all the spectators who attended a seance could
observe the indications given by the apparatus, and thus know
what was going on inside the cabinet, so I suggested a galvan¬
ometer which should reflect a large disc of light upon one side
of the room, the motion of which luminous disc should be seen
by everybody, and show whether the hands of the medium
were still in connection with the terminals inside the cabinet.
“ Since then Mr. Frederick Varley has made the instrument;
I hope that at our next soiree it will be on view at work,
and that the cabinet will be on the premises also, if you will
kindly accept them at the hands of Mr. Blackburn.
“ Accounts have been received from America setting forth
how mediums and the spirits materialised through them have
walked together from the cabinet in a good light; but until
such phenomena have been obtained in this country in the
presence of reliable witnesses, the apparatus just mentioned
will be of use for the special purpose of proving duplication.
It can also be used for other experiments connected With un¬
seen forces, and a very sensitive instrument of this kind might
Mat 21, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
be employed to determine the vexed point whether excessively
feeble currents of electricity are or are not given off from the
human form. Mr. Cromwell Yarley once designed a set of
experiments to determine this point with more accuracy than
had hitherto been determined ; but I had not then the leisure
to carry them out.
‘‘ Would it not be a good thing for our Association if we had
a philosophical department, to solve, as far as possible, all
questions relating to the physical side of Spiritualism ? There
is no such establishment on the Continent, or in any other
part of the world, and if we could only possess such a depart¬
ment, and further gradually accumulate upon our premises
the most complete library existing anywhere in connection
with Spiritualism, the value of the Institution we have estab¬
lished would be felt throughout the whole world, or, at least,
as far as the truths of Spiritualism are known.
“ Among those Spiritualists who take an interest in these
physical experiments are Mr. Cromwell Yarley, Mr. Charles
Blackburn, Mr. Martheze, and M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg.
Would it be possible to form a committee of these and other
members, who could work with each other, and would they
be willing to act if appointed ? Mr. Yarley, Mr. Martheze, and
myself have stocks of scientific apparatus of use in physical
research, and I believe all would be willing to lend whatever
might be necessary to carry on experiments. Further, if
useful experiments were planned to be carried out on these
premises, I would willingly for a time do all the work without
charge, to such an extent at least as not to interfere too
seriously with my ordinary duties.
“ Thus the only expense connected with carrying out such
an idea would be little more than the cost of a room in which
the work could be done, and perhaps the expense of fitting up
that room with large cases in which to keep the apparatus.
“Do you think it desirable that any of these suggestions
should be carried out?—Yery truly yours,
“ William H. Harbison.”
The Council then passed a unanimous vote of thanks to Mr.
Charles Blackburn for his gift of a cabinet and galvanometer.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that he considered the establish¬
ment of a philosophical department, as proposed, would be a
very good thing for the Association.
Mr. George King said that he did not exactly understand
what was proposed to be done. He had several scientific
friends who were not Spiritualists, but who were interested in
the subject, and would probably like to work on such a com¬
mittee as that now proposed to be appointed.
Mr. Harrison said that he thought that proselytising work
and scientific research ought to be separated from each other,
since non-Spiritualists did not understand the subject nor the
conditions under which the best- phenomena were evolved.
He thought that scientific disbelievers ought to join Serjeant
Cox’s Psychological Society, and that a society of Spiritualists
could make more progress in research because disbelievers
were not present. To this rule, however, there was one non-
Spiritualist who might be an exception, namely, Mr. Crookes ;
but Mr. Crookes had not joined the Dialectical Society because
he thought that he could do more good for Spiritualism by
working in an independent way; and he (Sir. Harrison)
thought that if the Psychological Society worked inde¬
pendently, if Mr. Crookes also worked independently, and the
National Association worked independently, each helping the
other where they could, it would be better than uniting, since
the public would then have scientific evidence of various
kinds bearing upon them from different directions. Mr.
Martheze had read the letter which had just been submitted
to the Council, and said that he approved its contents. Mr.
Blackburn had also telegraphed from Manchester that day,
expressing his satisfaction at its suggestions..
As it was not known whether the whole of the committee
would act if invited, and as the terms on which a room for the
purposes of the committee might be let required consideration,
the whole subject was referred by the Council to the Offices
Committee, with instructions that they should report thereon.
r Open-air Meetings in Liverpool.—Mr. James Coates
delivered his second open-air address on the “Gospel of Im¬
mortality,” at the Monument, London-road, Liverpool, last
Sunday morning, at half-past eleven. There was a fairer
attendance of Spiritualists than on the former occasion, and
the discourse was listened to with marked feelings of approba¬
tion by an intelligent assembly numbering close upon two
hundred people.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. EYERITT. .
BY EMILY KISLINGBTJRY,
Last Wednesday evening I had the privilege of being
present at a seance given by Mrs. Everitt to a party of
friends at 38, Great Russell-street.
Apart from the interesting character of the manifesta¬
tions usually occurring through the mediumship of Mrs.
Everitt, this seance may be said to have had a special
interest attached, from the circumstance that it is the
first which has been held on the new premises of the
National Association of Spiritualists; it was therefore
in a measure an inauguration or dedication of the new
room to the special purpose for which it has been set
apart.
If it be true, in accordance with the teachings of
psychometry, that places become permeated with mental
influences, both on the mortal and spiritual plane, it
behoves us to observe with care those we introduce into
our seance rooms, where both mediums and sitters are,
for the time being, brought into a receptive and
unusually sensitive condition ; and, judging frojn my
own sensation, as well as from the expressed opinion of
all who attended Mrs. Everitt’s seance on that evening,
I think we were peculiarly fortunate in the influences
by which we were surrounded, which I hope will
not be superseded by any of lower character, and
which will prove to be only a foreshadowing of better
and greater things to come.
The manner in which Mr. Everitt has always con¬
ducted his seances is well known to most of your readers,
and is as commendable as it is interesting. The portions
of Scripture to be read were indicated by the spirits,
who responded by raps to the letters of the alphabet,
called over by Mr. Everitt. Ezekiel viii. 3 and xi. 1
were the first extracts chosen, followed by a portion of
Acts ii. An impressive and appropriate prayer was
then offered up by Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, after which
several hymns were sung by the whole company, pro¬
ducing a feeling of thorough union and harmony in all
the members of the circle.
The room had been effectually darkened by means of
entire black shutters, fitting closely into each window,
with which the seance room is provided. The evening
was extremely warm, but all sense of discomfort was
dispelled by the perfumed breezes which were wafted
from time to time across the circle; the scents were
various, and can hardly be described by the name of
any flower or perfume known on earth. A profuse
exhibition of spirit lights also took place, of various
colours and brightness, recognised as belonging to parti¬
cular spirits well known to the frequenters of Mrs,
Everitt’s seances.
John Watt, the spirit, was next heard manipulating
the speaking tube, scraping it along the ceiling, and
almost simultaneously rapping with it on the table; he
afterwards kept up an intelligent conversation with Mr.
G. R. Tapp, Mr. and Mrs. Erancis Smith, Mr. Kenin-
gale Cook, and others who were present, for about the
space of an hour. The table, which is a heavy one,
and large enough to accommodate twelve or thirteen
sitters, and which has no castors, was moved from side
to side in the light, before the medium became en¬
tranced. During the conversation with John Watt, Mrs:
Everitt appeared to be quite unconscious; there was
therefore no opportunity of observing to what extent
the voice of the spirit and the medium can be heard at
the same time.
246
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 21, 1875.
I am glad to have this opportunity of testifying to
the high character of the manifestations produced
through Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship, and to the ex¬
cellent manner in which her circles are conducted.
THE BAZAAR NEXT WEEK.
Next Wednesday the bazaar in aid of the Spirit-'
ualistic reading-room and library, just established in
London, will be opened at the Co-operative Hall, Castle-
street, Oxford-street, directly at the back of the Prin¬
cess’s Theatre. For a long time past warm hearts and
industrious fingers have been at work, so that a large
stock of articles of use, as well as of luxury, all con¬
tributed by friends who have been labouring in love
together to promote a good object, will be on sale at
moderate prices for the purpose of raising funds in
support of the home so long felt to be a necessity in the
metropolis, where Spiritualists can meet each other
during leisure moments.
The preparations which have so long occupied the
earnest and enthusiastic friends who have promoted the
bazaar are drawing towards completion, and from the
variety of the programme there is every reason to hope
that success will attend the efforts of the workers. A
good attendance will, of course, be necessary to conduce
to this end, and it is hoped that all members will show
their interest in the cause which the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists is intended to further, by assem¬
bling in large numbers with all the friends they can
‘muster. In recognition of the importance of the work
of the Association, Mrs. A. E. Fay has kindly promised
the benefit of her services, and will give a public seance
in the Co-operative Hall next Thursday evening, at eight
o’clock. Mr. Christian Reimers, with equal kindness,
volunteers a performance of “Comic shadows and little
clowns,” in which his well-known humoristic talent
will doubtless show to advantage; and on Wednesday
evening an entertainment will be given by the famous
Osborne Bellringers, of world-wide reputation. Music
and singing at intervals by friends who have volunteered
such will further enliven the proceedings.
As regards the stalls, from contributions already
received, and from others announced and daily expected,
the bazaar will doubtless be well supplied with goods
and fancy articles of every description. Sir Charles Isham
has sent one hundred little vases of peculiar manufacture,
designed expressly for the bazaar, containing bunches
of agrostis pulchella, sl dried grass, of fairy-like appear¬
ance. Mr. Bowman has forwarded a large supply of
photographs of the works of Mr. David Duguid, includ¬
ing the portrait of Ruysdael, one of the artists said to
work through the medium. There will also be some
direct paintings, and others executed by Duguid in the
trance, which will be sold for his benefit.
Mme. Martheze has contributed several beautiful and
costly articles, including carved ivory fans, sandal-wood
boxes, cigar and card cases, all of Japanese manu¬
facture.
Dr. Gully contributes some beautifully carved
Florentine frames, and two paintings on wood, also of
Florentine workmanship. Mr. Coleman sends a pair of
photographs of Italian and Swiss scenery handsomely
mounted and framed.
The Baroness von Yay has sent six dozen photographic
portraits of herself and the Baron von Yay, besides a
handsome contribution in money, and Miss Blackwell
has presented a handsome carved wood inkstand.
A valuable contribution has been announced from
Mr. Partridge in the shape of a musical box with
operatic airs. Considering that no seance room can be
said to be completely furnished without this appliance,
it will no doubt be an object of competition.
There will also be on sale a good supply of the “ spirit-
drawings by a girl of twelve years of age,” and
various spiritual tracts and pamphlets calculated to
interest new inquirers into Spiritualism.
The stalls will be presided over by Mrs. Everitt, the
originator of the bazaar, the Misses Everitt, Mrs.
Kislingbury, (who also provides a mysterious wedding-
cake), Mrs. Maltby, Mrs. Bennett, Mrs. Sexton, Mrs.
Cook, besides other ladies, who will give assistance to
their friends.
A stall will be arranged where parcels and umbrellas
will be taken charge of; there will also be a refreshment
stall, as well as tea and coffee in the gallery.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE ENGLISH GOYERNMENT.
The recent application of the National Association of
Spiritualists to the Board of Trade, for registration
under the Companies Act of 1867, is the first instance
in which the Spiritualists of this country have had any
official transactions with a Government department.
The following is the clause in the Act under which the
Association asked for registration :—
Where any association is about to be formed under the
principal Act as a limited company, if it proves to the Board
of Trade that it is formed for the purpose of promoting com¬
merce, art, science, religion, charity, or any other useful
object, and that it is the intention of such association to apply
the profits, if any, or other income of the association, in pro¬
moting its objects, and to prohibit the payment of any divi¬
dend to the members of the association, the Board of Trade
may by licence, under the hand of one of the secretaries or
assistant secretaries, direct such association to be registered
with limited liability, without the addition of the word limited
to its name, and such association may be registered accord¬
ingly, and upon registration shall enjoy all the privileges, and
be subject to the regulations by this Act imposed on limited
companies.
The following is the reply received from the Board
of Trade :—
Board of Trade, Bailway Department,
London, S.W., 28th April, 1875.
Sib,—I am directed by the Board of Trade to acknowledge
the receipt of your letter of the 24th inst., applying for a
licence under the 23rd section of the Companies Act, 1869, in
regard to the British National Association of Spiritualists.
In reply, 1 am to inform you that the Board of Trade must
decline to entertain the application, as they are not of opinion
that the objects of the Association bring it within the meaning
of the 23rd section of the Act in question.
The cheque for five guineas (£5 5s.), counsel’s fee, enclosed
in your letter, is herewith returned.—I am, sir, your obedient
servant, Henry E. Calcraft.
E. Kislingbury, Esq., British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury.
Thus the decision of the Board of Trade is that the
promotion and investigation of Spiritualism do not
serve any religious, scientific, or useful object; but
as this reply was probably dictated in ignorance of a
subject over which a certain amount of popular pre¬
judice is now hanging, the officials probablybelieved that
they were only doing their duty. Acting on this supposi¬
tion, the Council of the Association has sent them some
information on the subject which will cause them to
see the responsibility of any action they may take. It
is probably not within the province of the Board of
Trade to decide what religious or scientific subjects
shall or shall not be promoted under the Act. If,
May 21, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
247
however, the officials think differently, their religious
and other opinions become matters of importance to
the public, and their department will become an arena
of theological controversy, such as was not contem¬
plated at the time of its institution.
The following is the reply recently sent to the Board
of Trade:—
May 14th, 1875.
Sir,—I am directed by the Council of this Association to
reply to your letter of the 28th ult., and to express their
regret and surprise at the refusal of the Board of Trade to
grant the licence under the 23rd section of The Companies
Act, 1867, as requested by this Association. The section, if I
read the same correctly, grants the privilege of incorporation,
under The Companies Act, without the word “ limited,” to all
societies having in view the promotion of “ commerce, art,
science, religion, charity, or any other useful object.”
Now, I submit that the objects of our Association are
essentially scientific and religious.
And, first, as to science. One of the great objects of this
Association is that of a thorough scientific inquiry into the
reality of the facts called spiritual phenomena, and the ascer¬
taining of the laws which produce and regulate their existence.
For this purpose electric, photographic, and other philosophical
instruments have been secured, and a committee of scientific
men is being formed to carry out a series of scientific investi¬
gations.
Secondly, as regards the religious character of our Associa¬
tion, I trust you will pardon me for reminding you that the
knowledge of a future state is one of the aims of all religious
teachings. Spiritual phenomena essentially direct our atten¬
tion to the cognisance of a future state, and such being the
case I need hardly add that the objects of this Association are
included under the word “religion.”
Furthermore, the Council of this Association has been in¬
formed that the Anthropological Institute is now in process of
registration under the same section of the Act. Some of the
members of this Association are also members of the Anthro¬
pological Institute, but they give more attention to Spiritualism
than to Anthropology, as being the more interesting and the
more important science. The Anthropological Institute pub¬
lishes only quarterly accounts of its transactions, and is not
instituting any great amount of experimental research.
The Spiritual movement supports in England two weekly
papers, besides several monthlies. It has the countenance
of men pre-eminent in science and literature, who are now
engaged in closely investigating its phenomena, and the
results of whose work have been published in various leading
journals, such as the Daily Telegraph and the Quarterly
Journal of Science; finally, large sums have been expended in
apparatus calculated to furnish scientific proof of the genuine¬
ness of certain phenomena, and to detect and expose whatever
may be spurious.
The claims of our Association may be therefore said to be
at least equal to those of the Anthropological Institute, both
as regards the importance of its objects and its influence upon
society.
Under the 23rd section of the Act above referred to a judi¬
cial power has been granted to the Board of Trade, and this
function cannot (you will doubtless agree with me) be exer¬
cised without sufficient reasons being assigned.
I am hence directed, in making this second application for
the grant of a licence under the said section, to ask the Board
to favour me by stating the reasons why they have come to
the conclusion to refuse the licence, except, after this explana¬
tion of our object, the Board should, as this Council hope, see
fit to alter the decision conveyed in their letter of the 28th
ult.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant,
By order, E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
H. G. Calcraft, Esq., Assistant Secretary, Board of Trade.
As friends who call find it to be convenient to be able
to obtain light refreshments in the reading-room of the
National Association, tea is now supplied there at a moderate
charge.
The Spiritualistic publishing office at 38, Great Russell-
street is in the charge of Mr. Selwood, and opens daily at
10.30 a.m. Mr. Harrison is usually there from twelve to one
and five to six o’clock. For enlarged list of interesting books
on Spiritualism recently imported from America, see adver¬
tisement columns.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
FIRST ORDINARY MEETING OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY—
THE PHENOMENA OF SLEEP AND DREAM.
On Wednesday night, last week, the first ordinary meeting
of the Psychological Society of Great Britain was held in the
rooms of the Architectural Society, 9, Conduit-street, Begent-
street, under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox. Among the
listeners present were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Frederick
Collingwood, Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., Mrs. and Miss
Schletter, Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Mrs. Wiseman,
Major S. R. I. Oven, F.L.S., Mr. Percival, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald,
Mr. F. K. Munton, and Mr. Tagore.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed,
after which about thirty new members were elected.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he hoped that at future meetings
reports of phenomena and facts would be presented to the So¬
ciety, and that those who advanced them would answer ques¬
tions bearing upon their testimony. Papers upon psychologi¬
cal subjects would also be read at each meeting. In the
discussions the time allowed to each speaker would be rigidly
limited to not more than ten minutes.
Mr. Serjeant Cox then read a paper upon “ Some of the
Phenomena of Sleep and Dream,” in the course of which he
argued that when a man is awake, the conscious self controls
the action of the material brain by means of the will; but that
in sleep the action of the will is suspended, although in the
case of dreams consciousness remains. Under these condi¬
tions the conscious self is unable to distinguish between the
ideas self produced and ideas created by material external ob¬
jects; hence, the implicit acceptance of the circumstances of
dreams; for in the dream state there is no discerning of in¬
congruity or impossibility. He argued that in dreams one part
of the brain is asleep, while another part is awake and active.
He also pointed out that in the dream state all conception of
time and space is lost, time being then measured only by the
succession of ideas. He said that very much light could be
thrown on the phenomena of dreams if some man born blind,
and who therefore could have no natural memory of vision,
would describe minutely what “ stuff” his dreams were made
of. Did he dream that he saw objects, or only that he felt
them ? Had he visions at all ? If so, what was their nature ?
He should like also to know, Did the deaf ever dream of
sounds ?
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., said that he once knew
a man who had lost his sight so early in life that he might,
practically speaking, be considered the kind of witness that
Mr. Serjeant Cox had demanded. This man once dreamt of a
house in which he (Mr. Stainton-Moses) was then living, and
of a party to which he was unable to go; but the blind man
had had an account of the party given to him by two relatives,
so it was not easy to see that his dream sovled any problem.
The case made an impression upon himself, because his blind
friend correctly described the house and the place. When
some of the senses are withdrawn the remainder are quickened;
hence the blind have an increased power of imagination, and
of remembering descriptions given by other people. It was
true that within certain limits men acted a part in their
dreams and appeared not to be conscious of the, part they were
taking in the pageantry; but would not that tend in some
cases to show that they were acted upon from without, and
might not the circumstance explain some of the phenomena of
the waking dream or trance ? An entranced person did not
remember what had taken place, but he never imagined him¬
self to be anybody else, although during the trance his indi¬
viduality had been in complete abeyance. Every ploughboy
was certainly not a dramatist, or, at all events, his dramatic
powers were well concealed in his waking state, and if he pos¬
sessed such powers while asleep would not that tend to prove
that some outside influence was at work at the time ?
ARE DREAMS INCONGRUOUS?
Mr. George Harris said that he considered it to be a most
valuable suggestion that the Society should collect information
as to the dreams of blind persons. Although in some oases
dreams were incongruous, it had been said that persons had
worked out problems in their sleep ; perhaps, therefore, dreams
might be sensible enough, only upon waking up the whole of
them was not remembered, the few remembered facts standing
out like stars between the clouds of forgetfulness. Another set
of facts demanding inquiry was the reason why many people
can wake at the precise time they resolve to do before they go
to sleep; he knew that this was a fact, and had had expe¬
rience of it himself while travelling abroad.
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 21, 1875.
HOW TO MAKE SLEEPING PERSONS TALK.
Major Owen said that the subject of dreams was of a per¬
sonal character, and the members should give their own expe¬
riences, since they could better testify to their own dreams
than to those of anybody else. In his own case his dreams
were not incongruous. He had dreamt several times of one
member of his family who died some years ago. That person
always came back as one who had died, and never as a person
still living upon earth. In the assumed case of a ploughboy
becoming a dramatist, was that not evidence of an intelligence
other than that of the ploughboy being at work producing the
effects ? Many years ago he was living in India, and one
night, while many of his friends were asleep, he and some
others resolved to try by experiment whether the slumberers
could not be made to talk. They accordingly talked to one of
them, and after a time he began to answer, and told how he
was having some horses brought down the country. Not even
his own brother, who was present, knew about the horses, and
when the person who made the revelation was told about the
horses when he awoke he was like a madman, and would not
believe that the information had been drawn from himself
while asleep, until on the following evening he saw the same ex¬
periment tried upon others. On several occasions he (Major
Owen) had slightly directed the course of the dreams of a clair-
voyante, and her utterances in that state had a dramatic power
equal in force to the language of Dickens, as if some third
mind were at work in the matter.
Mr. Stevens asked if the lady just mentioned had any
recollection when she woke up of what she had previously
spoken in the trance state.
Major Owen said she had no remembrance of it whatever.
When she was in the mesmeric sleep, but not in the more
sensitive clairvoyant state, he ran pins into her and held
candles close to her eyelids, but she did not feel.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that it would be interesting if
Major Owen would describe the exact process by which he
made his brother officers talk in their sleep.
Major Owen said that after he once drew them into conver¬
sation* they spoke to him as clearly as if they were awake;
they also seemed to be sensitive to other things than his
questions, for he remembered that the mosquitoes were troub¬
ling them at the time. So far as he knew, none of the persons
experimented upon had ever been in a mesmeric sleep; they
were intelligent men, sleeping in the ordinary way. He began
to act upon them by speaking to them in a soft whisper, and
after a time they began to reply. It did not matter whether
he spoke to the ear or to the pit of the stomach; he merely
leant over them and spoke till they grew restless ; then they
began to talk. He made a sleeping Italian believe that he
was his wife (Laughter) ; all the witnesses were then screaming
with laughter, so that the man soon woke up. The conversa¬
tion with each sleeping person lasted from ten to twenty
minutes, and the experiment succeeded in every one of the
eight cases in which it was tried. He had never tried such
experiments since, because he had not had the opportunity,
and because it was not every day that a man was placed in a
bungalow full of sleeping bachelors, so that a trial could easily
be made.
The President said that he hoped that some of the members
of the society would try experiments like this, and report the
result.
DREAMS ABOUT BODILT DEATH.
Mr. Munton said that Mr. Serjeant Cox had argued that
there was sometimes a severance between the soul and the
body. Sometimes persons dreamt they were dead, and this
dream was probably more common than was generally sup¬
posed ; at all events, it had occurred to himself and to others
whom he knew. Once he dreamt that he was dead, that his
body had been placed in a coffin, that the lid had been
screwed down upon him, and that he heard his relations con¬
versing about him; he then pushed aside the lid of the
coffin so that he could breathe again, after which he awoke.
Mr. Serjeant Cox remarked that Mr. Munton did not dream
that he was dead, but that other people supposed him to be
dead; it was impossible for a man to dream that he was not
alive, because so long as he was conscious alive he must be.
Mr. Munton replied that he meant that he dreamt that his
body was dead, yet that the thinking part of himself remained
conscious.
Mr. Tagore said that they wanted to know the nature of the
action of the soul when it was free from the body. In that
state the ideas had the power of flowing freely; time and space
were annihilated, for the soul wanted no time; it saw visions
of worlds which had never been seen in mortal life, of scenes
more beautiful than poets had dreamed; and when it was thus
partially freed from the body, it appeared as if the spirit had
a foretaste of the life beyond.
THE PSTCHOLOGT OF MEMORY.
Mr. G-. Harris then read a paper on “ The Psychology of
Memory.” He said that memory might almost be considered
to be a sixth sense, and that even conscience might be defined
to be a species of memory. Only those ideas which made a
clear impression upon the brain at the time were retained in
the memory; many ideas passed through the mind, but had not
sufficient force to be retained in the recollection. According
to Locke, pleasure and pain contributed most to the impres¬
sion of ideas upon the memory. The memories of men
differed in kind; for instance, when Lord Eldon heard a dis¬
course, he could remember many of the minute details, whereas
his brother could not remember the details so well, but could
grasp the main points, and take a comprehensive view of the
whole. Sir Walter Scott was so pleased with Campbell’s
“ Pleasures of Hope,” that after reading it once he could repeat
the whole of it from memory. The more a man relied upon
memory, the more could memory be trusted ; once he unex¬
pectedly had to sum up a case for a jury without notes, yet he
found that he could remember enough of what each witness had
said to perform the duty efficiently. He should like to know
whether the mind had any power of expunging ideas which
were no longer needed, so that room might be made for more
valuable matter. On the whole, he thought that the mind
could to some extent erase ideas from the tablet of memory.
People spoke of aids to memory, but in reality such alleged
aids tended to abolish memory altogether, and to substitute
something else. The diseases of memory formed an interesting
subject to inquire into ; also the question of the memory
of animals: that animals had retention was certain, but
whether they had a voluntary control over memory was in his
opinion doubtful.
Mr. Tagore said that for fifteen years he was intimately
acquainted with an old gentleman who at the close of that
period was eighty-five years of age. At first he would relate
to him anecdotes of his early life, yet at the very same time
he forgot present events: as time went on his recollection of
current events grew weaker, yet he could remember conversa¬
tions that he had held with persons when he was twenty-five
and thirty years of age. Did memory serve some moral
purpose in the human economy, so that certain things were
remembered, whilst others were forgotten which were of no use
in the life beyond ? The two subjects which had attracted the
attention of the society that evening were connected, for some¬
times persons remembered in dreams what they had forgotten
in their normal state. This resuscitation of facts in sleep was
curious, and it would be well to know why, under such con¬
ditions—in the words of Macaulay—memory gave up its
dead.”
The discussion was then adjourned until the next meeting,
and the proceedings closed.
THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT AND THE GIFT OF
TONGUES.
The following is an extract from a sermon by the Rev.
Thomas Colley, in the Chapel of Ease, Portsmouth, delivered
last Sunday:—
The practical lesson for us, my brethren, at this season of
Whitsuntide, is whether these gifts are to cease with the apostles.
I say no—I say no. In the millennial privileges of the world
brought once more in contact with God, linked intimately, as
it will be, with heaven, there shall be with us a restitution of
lapsed gifts, forfeited through our unworthiness. <£ Shall
be,” do I say ? No, the future tense is out of date ; the pre¬
sent, the times that are, have seen a recommittal unto man of
special gifts of the Spirit, gifts of prophecy, gifts of healing,
discerning of spirits, and gifts of tongues. Look abroad, look
at home, look near at hand; in our very midst are signs of
the things of which I speak; and if we in the Church will
shut our eyes and refuse to recognise what is transpiring
around, and with mediaeval folly love the dim, religious light of
an unprogressive faith, the time must come when from the
bat-holes of hoary, venerable, but fast crumbling fanes, we
shall have to look out upon a busy world, and see that it is
already daylight in the streets, while it is midnight here. It
may not be ours, I admit, to see cloven tongues of fire as the
Apostles saw; but, waiting our development in spiritual things,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
May 21, 1875.
let us not deny their possibility to others; for it is to all who
are not carnally dead, and morally blind, even now to see
tongues of testimony resting on all created things—dewdrop
and flower, mountain crag and floating cloud, and flashing
gem, and vocal all with praises to the great “ I Am.”
Do we covet earnestly the best gifts ? 1 do. I earnestly
desire that gift for which I am most fitted. Some say they
want none of the gifts of the Spirit. I pity such, and they
deserve none, and will have even less than they want, with the
added inconvenience due to such soulless insanity in the other
life unless they mend their hopes, and aspire. 0 believe me,
the gift of tongues shall, in the near golden future, be the
lasting heritage of the Church and the world—lost, I say, only
for a brief space through man’s unworthiness—and with re¬
newed life, and spiritual health, and moral fitness, a restora¬
tion shall be made unto the Church of these same gifts and
Pentecostal graces. What may not be the millenial privileges
of the future ? Perhaps we hardly estimate the power that
may accrue to the Church militant when in greater accord with
the Church triumphant, and it is a pious speculation which we
may not unwisely indulge touching the evangelistic forces the
Church will wield in the repossession of these and other gifts
once common in her midst.
Scepticism and unbelief will of course sneer at such hopes,
and with daring logic, too, deny the possibility of the events
that transpired in Jerusalem at the feast of Pentecost; but the
literal fulfilment of prophecy touching the universal knowledge
of the Lord must include a spiritual means for its accomplish¬
ment. Look at mission work. The evangelisation of the
heathen progresses but slowly, not worth the outlay; vast sums
are expended to but little purpose; it is like firing cannon
balls of solid gold that fail to hit the mark, or come with proper
impact, because the rushing, overwhelming impulse of the Spirit
is not there. Zeal hath no force, or what of it it hath doth lack
discretion and right judgment. And as a remedy for this
sectarian, blunderheaded, denominational folly, it is not for
us to say what purposes the Eternal has not in view, or what
operative energies may not be called forth, when the exigencies
of the time demand a rapid fulfilment of the Almighty’s will.
A nation is to be bom in a day—“ And it shall come to pass
in the last days, saith the Lord, that I will pour out my Spirit
upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall pro¬
phesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old
men shall dream dreams.” Here is divine Spiritualism for
you—the romance of science and enthusiasm of theology; no
longer a dry. study for gloomy fanatics, or strait Pharisees,
or moody monomaniacs, or doctors of divinity to squabble
over, but a thing of life and fascinating interest and prac¬
tical experience. So, when the time for this has fully come
again, when it is with us as it was at Jerusalem in the time
of the Apostles, it will never do to limit the effusion of the
Spirit, or pseudo-scientifically cavil at the mode of its
pouring out.
One of the promised signs of God’s faithful ones is that they
shall speak with new tongues, and certainly we all need this
gift in unstinted measure to key us up to the sweet note of
love and gentleness of speech; for what heart-burnings does
this unruly member, the tongue, continually cause! It
boasteth great things, and is a babbling nuisance, often full of
deadly poison. Great is our need of a pentecostal gift in
this direction, to enable us to speak with new tongues lovingly
and with sincerity—not double-tongued in an evil sense, with
cloven tongues to match the cloven foot, but in singleness of
heart and simplicity of word; ‘‘ yea, yea—nay, nay,” should
we ever speak the truth in love, praying always. “ Set a
watch, 0 Lord, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips.”
In such wise at least, then, let us covet the gifts of the Spirit
and the apostolic gift of tongues ; for if we are to be judged
for every idle word, then have we need daily to say, “ Let the
words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be
acceptable in Thy sight, oh Lord, my strength and my
redeemerfor unless we mend our words we shall mar our
eternal fortunes.
Dft. Sexton at Goswele Hall.— A large audience
assembled on Sunday evening last to listen to a discourse by
Dr. Sexton on “ The Revival Movement; with an Estimate of
Messrs. Moody and Sankey.” Many strangers were present.
Next Sunday evening the subject of Dr. Sexton’s discourse
will be, “ The Theory of Human Automatonism; a Reply to
Professors Huxley and Clifford on the questions of the Free¬
dom of the Will and the Spiritual Nature of Manon which
occasion all who are interested in this question will do well to
attend.
Hoettjt.
JENNY LIND.
When first I heard that world-enrapturing voice,
I marvell’d what could be the secret art
That dwarf’d all others to a sweet, tame noise,
That fail’d to reach the heart.
But when I saw the moisture in her eye,
And the emotion trembling through her frame,
My question had not long to wait reply—
The inward secret came.
She sang with all her being—lived her song—
And not for us alone the strain was given ;
It seem’d to pass beyond us and along
The corridors of heaven.
So is it with all excellence; it seeks
Its own complete, ideal—great or small
And, speaking only for itself, it speaks
The heaven-wing’d thought for all.
’Twas not the organic utterance of lips,
The artful government of throat and lung;
The immortal put the mortal in eclipse;
It was the soul that sung. Bobert Lsiaarotf
O^rresponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, whosomttimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALISM IN ST. PETERSBURG!!.
Sir,—It will interest those of your readers who do not see
the Journal des Debats to learn that the impression of the
11th of May of that paper contains an account of the intense
interest which Spiritualism is now exciting at St. Petersburgh,
both in general society, and among men of science. Among
these is Mr. Wagner, who, in the last number of the Messager
d'Europe,rel&tes in detail the marvels he has witnessed through
the mediumship of Mr. Brediffe, and proclaims his conviction
that they are inexplicable by known laws of nature. His
article has, it seems, produced a profound and widespread
sensation.
The St. Petersburgh correspondent of the Debats stands
amazed before the spectacle of this triumphal entry of the
long banished supernatural into the midst of the sceptical and
realistic society of the present day, and calls upon the men of
science who have not been infected by it to assist in putting
down this new superstition; or at least, he adds, let the adepts
in Spiritualism explain its scope, and the mode in which it
accords with the other articles of their scientific creed. This
gentleman appears to forget that newly observed phenomena
do generally appear for a time as irreducible anomalies, and
that it is only by time and patience that their places have been
discovered in the system of nature of which so small a part is
yet known.
It is to be hoped that Mr. Brediffe will pay a visit to
London ; our supply of first-rate mediums is not equal to the
demand. J. H. D.
81, South Audley-street, May 17th.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN NORTHAMPTON.
Sir,—By this post I send you the Northampton Herald, in
which you will find the report of a lecture delivered in this
town by Dr. Monck, in reply to one of our local preachers.
The paper also contains a report of a seance held at my house
with the same medium. That strict test conditions were
maintained throughout the seance I can vouch for, as I and
my wife held Dr. Monck’s hands, and never for one moment
released them during the whole time the manifestations were
taking place.
On the following evening we had another and, if possible,
greater test of spirit power through Dr. Monck’s mediumship.
While his hands were held by my son-in-law (who is a disbe¬
liever in. Spiritualism) across the table, some pictures on the
wall, some six feet or more from Dr. Monck, were removed
from their places and thrown across the room; others were
turned round with their faces to the wall, and, on a light
being procured, were still swaying to and fro. In addition to
this, while the medium’s hands were still securely held, the
chair in which he sat was removed from under him and
thrown over the .table with a force sufficient to alarm the
perspn on the opposite side, who cried out, “Be gentler,
friend.” Immediately after this feat, an arm-chair suddenly
followed suit, and was put upon the table, disturbing, but not
250
THE SPIRITUALIST.
injuring, the gas chandelier. Having reduced the confusion
to something like order, we again put out the light, when we
were startled by one of the ladies crying out—“ What the
goodness are they at now ?” We had not long to wait for an
answer. The couch was raised up, and the pillow end of it
gently placed in the lady’s lap, and the other end partly on
the table.
Samuel, the spirit, now called out to my son-in-law to come
round and hold the medium’s hands together behind him,
which he did; and immediately a large dinner-bell, weighing
some two pounds or more, which had been lying on the table
in front of the medium, was vigorously rung over our heads.
After this a large accordion was played while soaring in mid
air. Other phenomena occurred—spirit lights and luminous
hands were seen. J. H. Blunt.
23, King-st., Northampton, May 17th, 1S75.
THE PHENOMENA OF SLEEP AND DREAM.
NO. I.
BY EDWARD W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW.
..... “We are such stuff
As dreams are made of; and our little life
Is rounded by a sleep.”
So says Shakespeare. The question to-night is—Of what
stuff are dreams made ?
You are at this moment awake. You are in the full posses¬
sion of all the faculties of your mind—that is to say, you can
control and regulate your action. You can by the exercise of
your will cause your thoughts to follow each other in a certain
order. You can, as it were, sit in judgment upon them—
accept such as are fit for use, reject such as are useless or
incongruous. You can compare thought with thought and
deduce rational judgments from the relationship of those
thoughts.
What is the “ You” that does this ? What is the thing,
distinct from the thoughts that are controlled, marshalled,
and judged, which so deals with them when we are awake ?
We cannot enter upon that question now. It is too large
a subject for discussion in this paper. It must be reserved
for special examination hereafter.
For the present purpose it suffices that, when we are awake,
some entity we call “You” or “I” exercises an intelligent
direction over the order of thought by force of a power we
call “ the Will.”
You are then awake.
But suddenly the thoughts, so orderly before, fall into dis¬
order. They follow in no definite course. They flow with no
discoverable connection. They are wandering about in all
directions. Yqu try to retain or to recall them. For a moment,
perhaps, you succeed, and the orderly train of ideas proceeds
as before. But soon they are starting off again more wildly
than ever. The process of reining them in may be thus per¬
formed twice or thrice, but, unless something startles you
into wakefulness, they speedily break away from all restraint
and are scattered beyond recovery.
You are dreaming.
By one who views you during this process your head will
be seen to nod, your eyes to become fixed, your eyelids to
droop, your limbs to relax. Occasionally you will start and
resume a kind of stupid animation. The eyelids are lifted.
The eyes exhibit consciousness.
You are falling asleep.
For a moment only. Soon the same paralysed aspect
recurs, and there is no recovery from it.
You are asleep.
THE BODILY AND MENTAL CONDITIONS IN SLEEP.
This condition of the body accompanies the mental condi¬
tion described. Sleep and dream are coincident conditions.
The bodily change that attends sleep is a depletion of the
blood from the brain, attended by its necessary consequence—
a collapse of the fibrous structure of the brain. Of this any
person may satisfy himself by noting the very perceptible
inflation of his brain that follows upon a sudden awakening.
The blood is felt to be rushing into the brain, attended by a
sense of fulness and expansion.
But what is the mental condition? That is the question to
which I now desire to draw the attention of the Society.
The subject is a very large one, and I cannot possibly treat
of it in one paper. This evening I can hope to invite discus¬
sion upon what can be little more than introductory.
Familiarity has destroyed the wonder of it to us, but what
can be more wonderful in itself than the change that is
May 21, 1875.
accomplished in a moment from the mind awake to the mind
asleep?
Suddenly that which before was real is unreal, and that
which was unreal is real. Things cease to become thoughts,
and thoughts become things. All the conditions of conscious
existence are reversed. The mental faculties that are exer¬
cised in the process of reason are in abeyance. The mind is
incapable of comparing one idea with another, or of holding
any thought before itself for examination or j udgment. The
experiences of the past have no influence over the impressions
of the present. The world without is all a dream (with some
limitations to be described hereafter). The world within is the
actual world to us.
This mental revolution is the work of a moment of time. It
is done literally in the twinkling of an eye. We have not
time even to be conscious of the change. There is no moment
when we can feel “ Now I am awake” and “ Now I am dream¬
ing,” or mark the very passage from the one condition to the
other. The whole state of our mental existence is overturned,
and yet we seek in vain to know the precise period of the
revolution.
May not this psychological fact, occurring to all of us daily,
indicate that to the mind when temporarily released from the
conditions of molecular substance there may be other
measures of time and infinitely speedier powers of action
than when it works subject to a material structure ? But this
is by the way.
What is the change which sleep thus instantly accomplishes
in the mental condition ?
ONLY PORTIONS O^ THE BRAIN ACTIVE IN DREAMS.
In the first place, it shows us that the mind does not work
as one entire mechanism to produce one result, each separate
thought and emotion being a separate state or product of the
whole machine, as contended by Dr. Carpenter, but that
certain parts of the mental mechanism (whatever that may
be) work separately from the other parts. In the operation of
dream there is the manifest activity of some faculties, while
others are in abeyance. If action of the whole machine had
been required for each mental act, dream would be impossible,
for the whole machine would wake or sleep together, and there
would either be the reasonable action of waking or the un¬
conscious condition of coma.
We may therefore take it as conclusive that in dreams some
of the mental faculties are active, and some are at rest—some
probably asleep while others are awake.
The next question is, if in sleep and dream certain faculties
are always awake and active, and certain other faculties
always slumbering or inactive ?
After a careful review of all my own memories of dream, I
am inclined to the conclusion that every mental faculty is
sometimes waking and sometimes sleeping, and consequently
that the whole brain rarely, if ever, sleeps at the same moment
—that some portions of it are active while others are resting,
and thence the variations in the character of dreams, not
merely from sleep to sleep, but at different periods of the same
slumber.
THE DUALITY OP THE MIND.
Probably the newly established duality of the mind, as
asserted by Brown-Sequard, which is either the cause or the
consequence of the duplex structure of the brain, may be
found upon further investigation greatly to influence dream,
and to account for many of its hitherto inexplicable
phenomena. It may be that as the brain has two hemi¬
spheres, and consequently the mental faculties are double, one
hemisphere of the brain sleeps while the other wakes. This
certainly appears more probable than that some only of the
faculties should be suspended while others are active. How
the suspension of the activity of one of our two minds would
be likely to affect mental action, so as to explain the pheno¬
mena of dream, is an inquiry too large to be entered upon
here. I hope to return to it hereafter. But in the meanwhile
I would venture to invite to this question the serious atten¬
tion of psychologists.
What, then, are the most remarkable features of dream ?
Foremost of them is the continuous stream of ideas, by
which term I here intend mental pictures of things that im¬
press themselves on the mind through the senses. These
occupy by far the greater portions of our dreams. They are
not always images of particular objects, for often they are
forms which the eye has never seen, but which, nevertheless,
are constructed by putting together the mental images of
objects that have been seen. Impressions conveyed by other
senses than sight are often reproduced, such as sounds, scents,
May 21, 1875,
251
THE SPIRITUALIST.
tastes, and past nerve pains and pleasures. Indeed, whatever
has been at any time impressed upon the mind and become a
memory, may be recalled in dream, either alone or in associa¬
tion with other memories.
THE DREAMS OE BLIND MEN.
Very much light would be thrown on the phenomena of
dream if some man born blind, and who, therefore, can have
no mental memories of vision, would describe to us minutely
what “ stuff ” his dreams are made of. Does he dream that
he sees objects, or only that he feels them ? Has he visions,
and what are they ? If any intelligent and educated person,
labouring under the affliction of blindness from birth, would
favour this society with a minute account of his dreams, I
cannot but think that a great service would be done to psycho¬
logy by facts which, better than any amount of argument and
conjecture, would show us what, if any, ideas are innate, what
are brought to us by the senses, and in what manner the mind
uses the impressions of the senses for the moulding of its own
productions. Of scarcely lesser importance would be a like
communication from the deaf. Do they dream of sounds ?
But the ideas or images of objects that flow into the mind
in dreams are rarely or never isolated ideas. They do not
come in a confused crowd, nor do they stand alone. Like the
beads and bits of glass that are thrown into the kaleidoscope,
and which every turn of the instrument shapes into a new
and definite form, the ideas that come into the mind in
dream are put together in shapes more or less connected.
Besides the mental faculty engaged in the presentation of
ideas, another mental faculty is employed in the invention of
the story that links them together. Here are two mental
faculties at the least that are undoubtedly awake and active
in dream.
It is an unsolved question if in dream any of the faculties
are actually sleeping. At the first glance it would appear
that sleep or some other disability suspends the activity of
the faculties, whatever they be, that give us the senses
of congruity and incongruity—that is to say, the faculty of
comparison and that combination of faculties which consti¬
tutes what we describe in one word as reason.
NO SENSE OF INCONGRUITY IN DREAMS.
In dream there is no sense of incongruity. The most
impossible things are brought together, and the mind accepts
them as realities and feels no surprise. Friends long dead are
with us, and we do not wonder why. We do impossible things,
and forget that they are impossible. We walk upon water, fly
in the air, are transported hither and thither without passing
through the intermediate distance, and there is no sense of
wonder, no knowledge that it is impossible. We have the
strength of a giant, the fleetness of an antelope, the eloquence
of a Cicero, and wield the pen of a Milton, and we never ask
the how or the why. Beason, so prompt, not a moment before
we had fallen asleep, to make us separate the real from the
ideal, the true from the false, the possible from the impossible,
is in an instant extinguished. The mind, so sane before, is,
in fact, insane now, for in sleep insanity is the normal con¬
dition. We are all madmen in our dreams. In truth, how
large a part of our lives is really passed in a state of delusion !
The man we call mad is only a man who dreams always. We
are all what he is when we sleep. He is only called not sane
because he does not become what we are when he is awake.
IN DREAMS IDEAS BECOME FACTS.
Although ideas are facts to us in dreams, and we implicitly
believe them to be realities at the time of their presentation,
and they are usually woven together by some thread of relation¬
ship, the mind does not sit in judgment upon them as when
we are awake. If, for instance, two or more incongruous
objects or a series of impossible events were to present them¬
selves to us when we are awake, we should feel the sensation of
wonder, and instantly compare them with other objects or
memories of objects, and our reasoning faculties would be set
in motion to inquire into causes and reconcile the apparent
incongruities. But in dream the mind entertains the incon¬
sistent images and accepts the impossibilities with the utmost
complacency. It makes no comparison between the present
object and its recollections, and the reasoning faculty is not
employed to try the truth of the appearances.
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE SLEEPING AND WAKING MIND.
In what, then, does the sleeping mind differ from the waking
mind ?
First, you have lost your control over the action of the
mental faculties. Your will has ceased to direct them. Hence
their dislocation and the disorder that attends their actions.
But you are still conscious. You know that it is yourself
that is dreaming the dream. Although the dream creates in
you no surprise, you never for an instant lose your conscious¬
ness of your own individuality—that it is yourself that is
playing the part in the dream drama. Never do you suppose
yourself to be some other person. You may dream that you
are a king or a beggar, but it is yourself that has risen or
fallen. Your consciousness and conviction of identity remain
unshaken amid all the impossibilities with which your idea
existence is encompassed by the fictions of your own making
Is not this another proof that you, the dreamer, are not the
thing that makes the dream (for you cannot be both cause and
consequence), but only the recipient of the impression of the
dream from the mechanism that makes the dream ?
If, then, the individual consciousness continues awake, the
seat of the condition of dream is to be sought in some parts of
the process of mental action between the presentation of an
idea and the impression of it upon the consciousness.
What is wanting here ? There are two processes by which
the waking mind is governed. The intelligent self forms the
desire, and the will is the instrument or power by which that
desire is accomplished.
In our waking and normal state the brain works under the
control of the Will.
In the condition of dream the Will is either sleeping or
paralysed. Therefore it is that in dream the mental faculties
act without control, each one according to its own impulses.
But the dreamer is conscious of the mental action, although
he cannot control it. The Self is merely a passive recipient
of the impressions caused by the brain action. We perceive
what the brain is doing—that is to say, the successive condi¬
tions into which it is thrown—but we are unable to control
those conditions. The power is wanting by which the
Conscious Self controls them in the waking state. That
absent power is the Will. Hence we learn that the Will is
not the link between the Conscious Self and the brain. The
Self is connected with the material mental organ by some
other link, for in dream the consciousness remains although
the power of will is suspended.
(To be continued.)
Spanish Societies op Spiritualists.—We have re¬
ceived from El Vizeonde de Torres-Solanot a circular issued
by the united societies of Spiritualists in Spain, recommending
English, French, Spanish, and all other Spiritualistic societies
to get Spiritualism well represented at the great International
Exhibition to be held in Philadelphia in 1876. The circular
suggests that all the spiritual books, pamphlets, newspapers,
and periodicals published throughout the world shall be
placed on view there, and the idea is a good one. A com¬
mittee should be formed in Philadelphia, to take a room in
the Exhibition, and to do the necessary work.
Brixton Psychological Society.—On Thursday, May
the 13th, a number of members of this society held a seance
with Miss Showers, at 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton.
There were present, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Miss Fitz-Gerald, Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
Mrs. Showers, Mr. J. H. Edmands, Mrs. Edmands, Mr.
John Gray, Mrs. Gray, Mrs. Budd, Miss Ponder, Miss E.
D. Ponder, Mr. Ashton, Mrs. Ashton, and Mr. Deane. During
the preliminary dark seance most extraordinary vocal effects
were produced by spirit voices, a spirit calling himself Peter
(but not the same as that manifesting through Mr. Williams)
taking the lead. Other spirits assisted, three of them ulti¬
mately joining Peter in a quartette. In the light seance which
took place after a “ change,” Miss Showers, seated behind a
low curtain, was so securely bound to a chair by spirit agency,
that, after the knots had been examined, and an attempt had
been made to untie her, it was considered advisable to allow
the untying to be effected by the spirits. Whilst the medium
was still secured, hands were shown above the curtain, and a
ring drawn from the medium’s finger was also exhibited. In
the concluding part of the seance, various tests were given,
whilst the medium’s hands were in full view. Thus a piece of
tape placed round her neck was, under these conditions, firmly
knotted twice and tied in a bow. And whilst the medium’s
head was secured to a door-handle by means of tapes passed
round her neck, her hands jbeing in view, she was made to
drink the greater part of a tumbler of water, which had been
placed in her lap. The manifestations were considered very
satisfactory by all present. A second seance with the same
medium has been arranged for.—Emxst G. Fitz-Gerald, Hon.
^ Assist. Sec.
252
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 21, 1875.
PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS M PARIS.
M. Buguet has turned out to be a thorough scoundrel.
He has made a confession in which he asserts that he
has never taken any genuine spirit photograph, the
result of which is that he has been liberated on nominal
bail, whilst the innocent Leymarie, against whom the
priests are very bitter, is still incarcerated in gaol.
Some of Buguet’s pictures are too well authenticated to
be explained away, and some, there is no doubt, are
forgeries; he is believed to be one of those villainous
mediums who will do anything at any time to serve
their own temporary interests and convenience. As for
Mr. Firman, a lawyer tells us that no evidence what¬
ever would prove the reality of materialisations in any
English court of law, for ignorance and prejudice
would outweigh all evidence. If this is the case in
England, it must be much worse in Paris ; this,
coupled with the suspicious appearances surrounding
Firman’s last seance, makes it appear probable that he
will be convicted of imposture, though in all probability
undeservedly.
The Mediumship oe Me. Paekes.—Mr. Parkes writes
to Mr. Harrison :—“ We have experimented upon the carte
sent by the Baroness von Yay; out of four attempts, the results
were two pictures, the first with three figures, and the last one
figure; they were mounted and sent to her. Baroness Yay
replies, expressing her great satisfaction, and stating that the
recognition of Several of the figures is complete. I made no
charge, for I have not much experience in 'that way, and feel
fully rewarded by her hind and gracious expression of plea¬
sure. She has sent to my wife a very handsome cabinet
picture of herself; as it is mesmerised, I shall make a trial
with that also, and if as successful, will send her the result.
As soon as we get more prints, you shall have one of the copies
of each sent. Spiritual photography has entailed such heavy
loss upon me, that I cannot stand it, therefore I have accepted
an appointment, which, though very unremunerative, is not
loss, as has been the result of the large proportion of gratui¬
tous sittings I have been in the habit of giving. By perse¬
verance and economy, I hope to recoup myself, and then
make another campaign; as it is, I can only photograph on
Saturdays.”
Nationax Association Libeaey.—Important and valu¬
able additions have lately been made to the library. Mr. W.
Oxley has given the handsome donation of twenty-six volumes
of the works of Swedenborg, as follows: Arcana Ccelestia,
with Index, 14 vols; Apocalypse Revealed; Divine Providence;
On the Infinite; Conjugal Love ; The Four Leading Doctrines of
the New Church; Economy of the Animal Kingdom; Heaven
and Hell; The New Jerusalem; The 'True Christian Religion;
and Miscellaneous Observations. Mr. J. N. T. Martheze has pre¬
sented Whiston’s Josephus and some valuable photographs.
Dr. Eugene Crowell has presented two copies of his work,
Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism; and Mr. George
King The Millennial Age, by T. L. Harris. Mr. Martheze has
also lent the following: Spiritualism and The Sacred Circle,
by Edmonds and Dexter; S. B. Brittan’s Shekinah; A. J.
Davis’s Present Age and Inner Life, Nature's Divine Revelations,
and 4 vols. of the Great Harmonia; White’s Life of Sweden¬
borg; and The Book of God. The large-sized photographic
portrait of Miss Anna Blackwell in a handomely-carved oak
frame, the graceful reply of Miss Blackwell to a request from
the Council for the portraits of members, is the chief orna¬
mental addition to the rooms at 38, Great Russell-street.
The Baroness von Vay has also presented her three works:
Studien aus der Geisterwelt; Geist, Kraft, Staff; and Beti'acht-
ungen.
The Daiston Association oe Spieitctalists.—The
ordinary monthly session of the Council of the Daiston As¬
sociation of Inquirers into Spiritualism was held at the Rooms
of this Association on Thursday evening, 13th inst. Present:
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell (in the chair), Mr. A. Ferguson Black,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. R. Pomeroy
Tredwen, and Mrs. M. Theresa Wood. The minutes of the
last meeting were read and confirmed. The hon. treasurer
submitted the cash-book, and reported donations from Miss
Kislingbury and Miss Lottie Fowler. It was further reported
that the receipts from the special seance with Mr. C. E. Wil¬
liams on 30th ultimo exceeded the expenditure. A vote of
thanks was accorded to Miss Kislingbury and Miss Lottie
Fowler for their donations. A letter from Mr. J. J. Morse was
read, accepting honorary membership; Mr. Morse was accord¬
ingly formally elected. It was resolved to issue letters of in¬
vitation for acceptance of honorary membership to Dr. George
Sexton, Mr. James Burns, Mr. Thomas Shorter, Rev. F. R.
Young, Mr. Robert Cogman, and Mrs. Olive. Applications for
membership were accepted from Miss Grace, Mr. John Francis
Gaudin, and Mr. J. W, Farquhar; and the membership of two
others was cancelled. The attention of the Council having
been drawn to the question of changing the day of its meet¬
ings, motions were made by Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen and Mr.
Thomas Blyton. After some discussion it was resolved that
the day of the ordinary weekly meetings be changed to Friday,
such alteration to be notified to the members by circular, and
submitted at the next half-yearly general meeting for con¬
firmation. Also that the hour of ordinary weekly meetings
be 7.30 for 7.45 p.m., instead of 8 for 8.15 p.m. as heretofore,
tbe alteration to take effect provisionally on and after Friday,
the 4th June next. A paper by Mrs. Showers, upon “ A Few
Pages from the History of her Life,” was accepted with
thanks, to be read at the meeting of 27th instant. The
honorary secretary read a letter from Mr. W. E. Bassett, in¬
timating that Mrs. Bassett would give two special seances on
Monday evenings, the 31st instant and 7th proximo, for the
benefit of the Association. Mrs. Bassett’s generous offer was
accepted with thanks. A letter was read from Mrs. C. Wood-
forde, offering her professional services as a medium to mem¬
bers at reduced fees. The hon. secretary reported presentation
by Mr. C. E. Williams of his photographic likeness. A letter
from Mr. Joseph Stephens, late member of the Association,
was read. Instructions were given for purchase of additions
to the library stock, and the proceedings were brought to a
close. Last Tuesday the honorary secretary to the Daiston
Association received letters from Dr. George Sexton, Mr.
Thomas Shorter, and Mr. F. R. Young, of Swindon, accepting
honorary membership. Mr. James Burns also wrote, but de¬
clined the invitation issued to him.
ANSWEES TO COEEESPONHENTS.
H., Swansea, and other Correspondents. — Many letters
intended for publication are kept over for a time from want of
space.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
The annual meeting of the members of
THE ASSOCIATION, having been called pro forma at 38, Great
Eussell-street, for Wednesday evening, May 19th, stands adjourned to
Wednesday evening next, May 26th, at 7.30, when the meeting will be held
in the Beading Boom of the CO-OPEBATIVE HALL, 55, OASTLE-
STBEET EAST, OXFOBD-STBEET, for the election of the new Council
of the Association.
Members will be admitted on showing their cards of membership. Only
those who have paid their subscriptions for the current Year will be
entitled to vote.
E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
HE next Meeting on "Wednesday May 26th, at 9, Con¬
duit-street, at 8.30. Business: The adjourned discussion on the
paper read at the last meeting, viz.—the “ Phenomena of Dream,’ ’ “ The
Psychology of Memory.” A paper on “ The Duality of the Mind,” by Mr.
Serjeant Cqx. The following publications of the society sent to any person
enclosing the price in stamps and one for postage, to F. K. Munton, Esq.,
Hon. Sec., 9, Conduit-street1. The Inaugural Address on the Province
of Psychology, by Mr. Serjeant Cox, price Is. 2 On Some of the Pheno¬
mena of Sleep and Dream, by Mr. Serjeant Cox, price 6d. To become
members and for prospectus, apply to the hon. secretary as above.
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURES,
ON SUNDAY EVENINGS AT 7 p.m.,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMER-STREET, W.
THIRD AND PINAL COURSE OP SIX LECTURES.
May 2.—1. “Further Experiences in Spirit Life,” by the late Judge
Edmonds. May 9.—2. “Spiritual Chemistry,” by the late Professor
Mapes. May 16.—3. “ Moral and Spiritual Healing,” by the late Dr.
Bush. May 23.-4. “ Experiences in Spirit Life, and in Communicating
with Mortals, by the late Adin Augustus Ballon. May 30.—5. “ The
Harmony and Divinity of all Beligions,” by the late Theodore Parker.
June 6.—6. “The Spiritual Cosmos,” by the Whole Band of Twelve
Guides.
Mat 21, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIBVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well-known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vemon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, < will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MR. W, G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-busb,
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
•on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon (as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. oliye, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Businessand Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
■VTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
-Li of Curative (Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
dailyl from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
HUl, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
F
M. PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gay.aes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
w
ANTED
volumes
TO PURCHASE.—A complete Set of hound
of the Spiritual Magazine. Please apply, stating price
and condition of volumes, to X, care of E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the #orld, Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
TO SPIRITUALISTS.—A valuable opportunity is now
presented to Spiritualists of increasing their temporal means.
Particulars, with conditions, may be obtained from A. Snow, 18, Atling-
worth-street, Brighton.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, Cir¬
culating LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Filz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.O
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W
Da we, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terraee, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hbndcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fifz-Gerald, Desmond, G„ M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W .
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
James, Capt. J , Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W,
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs. F. A., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool
Noyes, T- Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-foad, 01dKent-rd„ S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq. ,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, TJ.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs *Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C instant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. ,G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York.
M. F. Clavairoz; Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
Dr. G. L. Ditson, Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town Africa.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 21, 1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiuottalism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., Q. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyle; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were Subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq,, Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported :—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other -or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps piean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy;1 the manifestations arc bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
exp "'enced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera-
I tuie. rt, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Is?am, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); ihe Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Sony wood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Da we;
Mr. J. M- Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smvrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Mbs A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marshail & Co.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI¬
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, Principals.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. {9 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4^d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOE, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
i po THE GUARDIANS OF ORPHAN GENTLEWOMEN,
Jl or others deprived of the advantages of a Home Circle. A Lady of
unsectarian and liberal views wishes to receive into her house Three
Young Ladies from the age of sixteen, in order to complete their studies
by means of the classes held at ihe Crystal Palace school of Art,
where the best masters are engaged. Board and residence, exclu ive of
school fees, 120 guineas per annum. Young ladies of good family from the
Continent or the Colonies would be acceptable. Address Y Z, Nicnolls,
Newsagent. Upper Norwood.  
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer,
to William Howitt's Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W.
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published or*
_J the 1st and ISth of every month, at 86, Rue de la Cathedrals, Lifegp,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
