AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 107.—(Vol. Y.—No. 11.) LONDON: SEPTEMBER llj 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
OTflntents.
NationalOrganisationof Spiritualists:—Where the Carcase is, &c., &c. 121
Notes on Church of England Doctrines. No. IY. By Anonymous
- Critics     122
Professor Huxley on Mesmerism ...      123
The Doctrine of Immortality among the Ancient Egyptians. No. I. 124
The Tests at the Philadelphia Seances. By Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples   125
Mrs. Tappan in Liverpool... .<  125
Materialised Spirits through Miss Showers’ Mediumship. By J. C.
Luxmoore, J.P    ...   126
Spiritualism in Bishop Auckland:—Organisation of Spiritualists at
Bishop Auckland—Mr. Meek’s Mediumship   126
Newspaper Abuse      127
Messrs. Burns and Kilburn   ... .“  127
A Strange Story about Stone Throwing bySpirits:—A Familiar Spirit
Indeed      129
Spiritualism in Marylebone    130
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Swansea, 130; Spiritualism in
Germany, 130; The Church and Reincarnation    181
Spiritualism in Australia  131
Answers to Correspondents        132
Paragraphs:—Mr. Morse’s Mediumship, 126 ; The Nomenclature of
Spiritualism, 129; Spiritualism in Newcastle, 132; A Good Ex¬
ample   ...       ... 132
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o'clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
. (Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, October 15th, 1874.
He has a few vacant dates for Sepiember next; early application is
necessary.
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism. and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
ecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the Ups of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
•‘The address quite riveted the attention of the audience."—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for neatly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was reaUy
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.  
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, Y ork-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
AN ORATION WILL BE DELIVERED BY
MR. J. J. MORSE,
Under the influence of his Spirit Guides, on SUNDAY EVENING,
13th SEPTEMBER, in CLEVELAND HALL, 54, Cleveland-street, Fitz-
roy-square.
SUBJECT MAN, HIS GENESIS AND DESTINY.
The doors will be open at 6.30, and the chair will be taken at 7 o’clock,
precisely. Admission FREE to the body of the Hall, Reserved seats by
ticket Is.
Tickets for reserved seats may be obtained at the “ Pioneer of Progress
Library,” 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn, W.C., or at the door on the
evening of the meeting.
An opportunity will be given at the close of the meeting to friends and
visitors of contributing towards the expenses.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information.about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 16, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece,
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
rilO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt's Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lape, Price One Penny,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 11, 1874
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Bichabd Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. E. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. E. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Eanger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Eichard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modem Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Association.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Eooms, 30, Farkfleld-street, Islington.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FEEEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STEEET, NEW0ASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong. -
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIBITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Eooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Eules on application to the Secretary.
ALFEED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GEEENE, Hon. Secretary.
Eeeently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., Fix-st Series.
FAC - SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PEOGEESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
~jV/I O HAMM ED and MOHAMMEDANISM : Lectures
-LYJL delivered at the Eoyal Institution of Great Britain in February and
March, 1874. By E. BOSWOETH SMITH, M.A. Crown 8vo., 6s.
“A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published.”—Academy.
“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicial
reasoning, and eloquent exposition.”—Scotsman.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Eemembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
ME. EOBEET DALE OWEN’S WOEKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDAEY OF ANOTHEE WOELD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WOELD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THEEADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE CEEED OF CHEISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. ByW. E. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. E. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Eealizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig
nifleance of Life—Do Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubnkr & Co., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BEENEES STEEET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
MARYLEBONE SOCIETY OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFOBD-STBEET, BAKEE-STEEET, W.
THE next monthly social meeting of the society, will
be held at the above address on Monday evening, September 7ih, at
half-past seven, when it is hoped every member will be present. Friends
also desirous of joining the Association, are cordially invited to attend.
A.dmission Free.
Discussions will also be held here on the following subjects, viz.:—
Wednesday, Sept. 9th.—Will the establishment of a National Association
of Spiritualists be beneficial to the cause and progress of Spiritualism ?
Wednesday, Sept. 16th.—Are the phenomena of modern Spiritualism simi¬
lar to those related in the Old and New Testaments ?
Wednesday, Sept. 23rd—Are the teachings of modem Spiritualism in har¬
mony with those of the New Testament ?
Wednesday, 30fA.—Is modem Spiritualism calculated to benefit humanity,?
To commence at 8 o’clock. Admission 2d.
Non-Spiritualists and Inquirers are especially invited to take part in these
discussions. Charles Hunt, Secretary.
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STEEET, HOLBOEN, LONDON, W.O.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Beform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents suppUed with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.  
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—AH who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEEE OF PEOGEESS” LIBEAEY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres- •
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. eadh.
EVEEY THHESDAY MOENING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS”
A Weekly Becord of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Eev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.O., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATOES AND ENQUIEEES into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn,' W.C.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Eich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Turee Months, 75 cents.
C. & E. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Beformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
sJ/b
eJAs
t
VOJ.UjVIE FIVE. jyUjVlBEI^ ELEVEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11th, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Bedueed terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view arnid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Oorrespondenoh.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the firsk post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance, the Spiritualist will be posted for one year
toafiy address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the. annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of "The Spiritualistu in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 883. Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Biohmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—-J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
TjTEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of, the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Since the meeting at Liverpool, at which all the
chief towns and local societies of Spiritualists in the
United Kingdom were officially or unofficially repre¬
sented, and it was unanimously resolved to form a
friendly National Association of Spiritualists, whose
officers should be elected by vote by ballot, the work of
national organisation has gone on steadily and success¬
fully. But in trying to get the small local societies to
declare that they will work in friendly harmony with
the National Association, it has been found that some
of the more uninformed members have been prejudiced
against the step, in consequence of Mr. Burns, a
spiritual bookseller in London, having printed and cir¬
culated some unfounded statements tha,t the Associa¬
tion intends to oppose him. In the first place the
people already connected with the movement are too
honourable to entertain the idea for a moment of
opposing an honest tradesman ; in the second place the
Association includes persons who have presented Mr.
Burns with hundreds upon hundreds of pounds as free
gifts within the past few years; in the third place two
of the members of the National Association—Mr.
Martheze and Mr. Joseph Mylne—are now between
them presenting Mr. Burns, as a free gift, with nearly
enough money regularly and annually to enable him to
live rent free; and in the fourth place, if malicious
people wished to injure a bookseller in his business,
they could do it without going to the absurdly gigantic
step of forming a National Association. Two or three
spiteful persons could do it simply by starting another
bookseller in the same street, and giving him money
enough to enable him to sell his goods under cost price,
supposing they could find a man capable of accepting
the position of a vendor of commodities under cost
price to the injury of his neighbours.
The reason why the doings of this honest man are,
for the moment, of sufficient importance to require
notice in a newspaper is, that he some time since
started a newspaper, or trade circular, of his own,
and by running heavily into debt with tradesmen and
others—which fact he has published himself—and by
publicly asking people to give him money, he has for
years been enabled to sell his journal, The Medium,
under cost price ; the capital of the public was used
in this way, perhaps with good motives, to undersell
his neighbours, and to gain the attention of the poorer
Spiritualists, who were obliged to buy the cheapest
journal. We know one person who was enormously
injured by the said underselling, and paid out heaps
of money in silence for some years, rather than say
one single word publicly which might be mistaken as a
key-note of dissension in Spiritualism. After he had
been enormously fined in silence, before saying a word,
he spoke out, and some Spiritualists of high principle
repaired a portion of the unintentional injury they
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 11, 1874,
had done; but not a few—who would not have sacri¬
ficed anything themselves for the sake of peace and
love under similar circumstances—then cried “ See how
quarrelsome these people are.” Having obtained the
ear of poor people, by means of a journal issued under
cost price at the public expense, Mr. Burns is now
using the power thus, gained against many of those,
like Messrs. Mylne, Martheze, and other members of
the Association, who gave and are giving it to him, by
announcing to his simple-minded readers that his
benefactors, the members of the National Association,
have started the Association to oppose him. This
many poor, uneducated people in the country, and
some of the members of the Marylebone Society firmly
believe, for he actually stands in relation to some of
these exactly the same as a Pope. Owing to the acci¬
dental circumstance of so much public capital having in
the past been thus unwisely, but kind-heartedly, thrown
without discrimination to a person who showed ability in
making a great outcry for it, a temporary power has
been raised which is now used in the attempt to sow
dissension wholesale throughout the Spiritual move¬
ment in the way described.
Of course it was open to the National Association
or its secretaries to deny his unfounded statements—
which they did—but his plan of action was then
exceedingly simple, namely, he refused to print their
letters, which were very brief ones, since it was
scarcely necessary to say more than that the statements
he published were the unfounded fabrications of whoever
invented them. Here is one of the letters which he
refused to print, and others will be found in the back
numbers of The Spiritualist:—
WHERE THE CAECASE IS, ETC., ETC.
To the Editor of “ The Medium."
Sir,'—I am instructed by the Council of this Association to
request you to publish their emphatic denial of the correctness
of the statements under the above heading in your last
number.1
The Association has never, collectively or individually,
practised or sanctioned any “ persecution or misrepresentation
of the Institution, or those connected with itnor are they
aware of any such persecution or misrepresentation having
been practised by any of their members. And further, they
have never deputed any one “ to negotiate an alliance ” with
you, or to make you any such offers as you state to have been
made to you by Mr. Hoskins.
(Signed) Emily Kislingbury, Hon. Sec.
British National Association of Spiritualists,
3rd March, 1874.
The clear-beaded and intelligent Spiritualists con¬
nected with the local societies, men who from their
capacity are unanimously elected by their brethren to
responsible offices like that of president or secretary,
are in nearly every case in favour of national union
instead of national dissension, because they have
informed themselves of all the facts of the case, which
some of the others have not. Among those in favour of
national friendly action are Mr. Blyton, the founder and
most active worker of the Dalston Society; the brothers
Hinde of the Darlington Society; Mr. Bowman of the
Glasgow Society; Mr. Everitt of the Bishop Auckland
Society; Mr. Pearce of the St. John’s Association;
Messrs. Wason, Lament, Chapman, and Shepherd of the
Liverpool Society; Mr. Cogman, of the East London
Society; Mr. Hunt of the Marylebone Society; Mr.
G. B.^Clark of the Edinburgh Society ; and so on. Mr.
Hare, one of the guiding powers of the Newcastle
Society, spoke to us very favourably of the National
Association, but we do not know whether he is a
member of it or not. The more intelligent members
of the local societies are now at meetings and elsewhere
enlightening their brethren who do not know the facts
of the case, and as all the “ bunkum” which has been
thrown to foment dissension and prevent union has not
the slightest trace of fact as its basis, in a month or two
all the evil will probably be cleared away. Pointing
out the facts through the press will greatly aid those
engaged in disseminating truth and goodwill, otherwise
it is not to our taste to issue an exceptional number of
The Spiritualist like the present one, dealing with
a temporary source of dissension in the Spiritual
movement, but the task is necessary, and we hope that
it will never have to be resumed. The National
Association is composed of some of the best Spiritualists
in this country so it can easily “ live down” misrepre¬
sentation ; it might wisely also meet objections in
a printed circular to the local societies, even the grossly
absurd one that the great friendly national step was
inaugurated by representatives of Spiritualists in all the
great towns of the United Kingdom, to oppose a solitary
honest man in his business. We shall have 20-ton
Nasmyth steam hammers made for cracking nuts next.
NOTES ON CHUECH OF ENGLAND DOCTBINES.*
No. IY.
BT ANONTMOT7S CKITICS.
We considered in our last writing the first assump¬
tion contained in the doctrine of the Atonement, viz.,
“ That sin having entered the world through the weak¬
ness of Adam, the justice of God demanded the punish¬
ment of the whole human race.” We showed you that
the record of the fall of man contained in the Mosaic
writings was so irrational as to be altogether unworthy
of credit or consideration. This conclusion, if it com¬
mands your assent, involves and disposes of the second
paragraph of this first assumption, viz., “ That the
justice of God demanded the punishment of the whole
human race.”
It is interesting to observe how all Christian theology
is founded upon this wondrous history of the “ fall of
man.” Countless generations have accepted the narra¬
tive as absolutely true, and in all their endeavours to
solve the great enigma of the relations between the
Almighty and His creatures have accepted these records
as “ axioms” true and infallible as those enunciated by
Euclid.
Had they commenced their investigations by laying
down as simple “ postulates,” “ That God made the
world, and all things in it, and that He is infinitely
loving, faithful, wise, and just,” and rejected all history,
whatever its source, that was plainly irreconcilable with
such self-evident conclusions, they would have started
with less “ revelation” doubtless, but they would have
had reasonable grounds for believing their premises to
be correct.
As it is, we can only liken mankind to a mathemati¬
cian who enters upon abstruse calculations with a pro¬
found conviction that “ twice two are five,” and wearies
his intellect in fruitless endeavours to arrive at the re¬
sult which he anticipated. Ere he succeed, he must
reconsider the starting, point of his calculations.
We assert that the internal evidence contained in
these records is sufficient to stamp them as the product
of an unenlightened age, and we would further point
* Given through the writing mediumship of a gentleman who does not
wish his name to he published.
Sept. 11, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
out to you that the degraded view of the Almighty
which they present is by no means borne out by your
own subsequent experience.
Where are the evidences of the curse said to have
been pronounced by the Creator against the earth?
Not in the rich and bounteous store with which she
rewards the tiller of the soil; not in her smiling land¬
scapes ; not in the inexhaustible blessings contained in
her lap, ready to be poured out at man’s bidding to
meet his every requirement! All declare a blessing,
not a curse!
And in what terms, as affecting man himself, is this
supposed anathema expressed ?
“ In the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread.”
Such is God’s law, not his curse—the law of labour,
common not to men alone, but to angels.
Is idleness compatible with happiness ? Is the
crust less sweet when eaten “ in the sweat of a man’s
brow ?”
What evidence, again, have you in your earth-life
that the justice of God demands the punishment of the
whole human race ?
What is your experience of God’s dealings with men ?
Philosophers may say, “We have no evidence on
the subject, we know not if there be a God.” The
labours, however, of the astronomer and the naturalist
should speedily convince you, not only that there is a
Supreme Being who created and upholds the universe,
who set the stars in their courses, and who taught the
spider to weave his web, but you will further find,
on a very superficial examination, that all is designed,
all created with a minute and tender care for the wants
and comforts, not of man only, but of the meanest
insect.
Is this the same God who cursed this beautiful earth
that He had but just made, and who decrees that every
child of man who is born upon it should enter existence
with the taint of death upon him ?
The second assumption contained in this doctrine is,
“ That one Person of a Divine Council, actuated by
compassion, Himself offered to bear all the penalty that
was to be exacted: that this offer was accepted, and
that the sufferings and death of Christ followed.”
If this be true, then what men call the “justice of
God” becomes more and more incomprehensible. We
have seen above that, for the sin of one man, this justice
is (supposed to have visited the whole human race with
dire, indiscriminatmg punishment.
You are now shown the same justice consenting to remit
a portion of the penalty in consideration of the incarna¬
tion, suffering and death of one person of the Trinity.
The Atonement, awful as it§ is, only indeed relieves
mankind from the eternal death which is their doom,
the sin and misery appertaining to this present life
remain unabated, and the boon is further limited by the
necessity of a child-like faith in its efficacy.
The whole doctrine conveys to an unsophisticated
mind the impression that one person of the Godhead is
of a more merciful disposition than the other; that in
fact two great opposing principles are represented by
Them, justice and mercy. This is in fact the teaching
of the Church, however much she may repudiate it; it
is abundantly shown in her literature, and the necessity
of a “mediator” between God and man is unmistakably
declared in her public ministry.
We come now to the third and last assumption.
“That those who faithfully believe in the efficacy of
this stupendous act of atonement are henceforth
justified and redeemed, but the unbelieving more
effectually and hopelessly condemned.” The peculiar
difficulty here presented to a reasoning mind is the
supposition that an evil and malicious man can be
justified by a mere reliance upon the expiatory sufferings
of another person. The intellectual difficulty is by no
means removed, even if it be conceded that the atone¬
ment is made by the very Son of God.
It is true that the effect, produced by wrong or
violence may in certain instances be repaired, but even
in such a case the reparation in no way diminishes the
guilt of the original act.
The evil deed is a thing of the past, and reason
loudly declares that no vicarious suffering can remove
from the shoulders of the sinner his self-imposed burden.
We submit, therefore, that this third assumption is as
incomprehensible and irrational as those that precede it.
Apart from the above considerations, we would point
out to you that this most important truth, as it
is proclaimed to be by your Church, a non-acceptance
of which she teaches must involve, the eternal misery of
the unbeliever, has been left by the Almighty destitute
of testimony of the smallest literary or historical value.
The authors of the Gospels are unknown, and their
writings are allowed, even by orthodox Christian Divines,
to be contradictory and irreconcilable.
PROFESSOR HUXLEY ON MESMERISM.
The following is the full text of Professor Huxley’s remarks
about mesmerism, in the course of his lecture to the British
Association at Belfast:—
I need not say that since those days of commencing anato¬
mical science when criminals were handed over to the doctors,
we cannot make experiments on human beings, but sometimes
they are made for us, and made in a very remarkable manner.
That operation called war is a great series of physiological
experiments, and sometimes it happens that these physio¬
logical experiments bear very remarkable fruit. I am indebted
to my friend, General Strachey, for bringing to my notice the
other day- an account of a case which appeared within the last
four or five days in the scientific article of the Journaldes Debats.
A French soldier, a sergeant, was wounded at the battle of
Barcilles, one, as you recollect, of the most fiercely contested
battles of the late war. The man was shot in what we call
the left parietal bone. The bullet, I presume, glanced off, but
it fractured the bone. He had enough vigour left to send his
bayonet through the Prussian who shot him. Then he wan¬
dered a few hundred yards out of the village, where he was
picked up and taken to the hospital, where he remained some
time. When he came to himself, as usual in such cases of
injury he was paralysed on the opposite side of the body, that
is to say, the right arm and the right leg were completely
paralysed. That state of things lasted, I think, the better
part of two years, but sooner or later he recovered frbm it,
and now he is able to walk about with activity, and only by
careful measurement can any difference between the two sides
of his body be ascertained. The inquiry, the main results
of which I shall give you, is conducted by exceedingly compe¬
tent persons, and they report that at present this man lives
two lives, normal life and an abnormal life. In his normal
life he is perfectly well, cheerful, and a capital hospital
attendant, does all his work well, and is a respectable, well-
conducted man. That normal life lasts for about seven-and-
twenty days, or thereabouts, out of every month ; but for a
day or two in each month—generally at intervals of about that
time—he passes into another life, suddenly and without any
warning or intimation. In this life he is still active, goes
about just as usual, and is to all appearance just the same
man as before, goes to bed and undresses himself, gets up,
makes his cigarette and smokes it, and eats and drinks. But
in this condition he neither sees, nor hears, nor tastes, nor
smells, nor is he conscious of anything whatever, and has only
one sense organ in a state of activity—viz., that of touch,
which is exceedingly delicate. If you put an obstacle in his
way, he knocks against it, feels it and goes to the one side, if
you push him in any direction he goes straight on, illustrating,
124
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 11, 1874.
as well as he can, the first law of motion. You see I have
said he makes his cigarettes, but you may make his tobacco of
shavings or of anything else you like, and still he will go on
making his cigarettes as usual. His action is purely mecha¬
nical. As I said, he feeds voraciously, but whether you give
him aloes or asafcetida, or the nicest thing possible—
(Laughter)—it is all the same to him. He is just like my
frog—(Laughter)—he goes on feeding. The man is in a condi¬
tion absolutely parallel to that of the frog I have just de¬
scribed, and no doubt when he is in this condition, the func¬
tions of his cerebral hemisphere are at any rate largely
annihilated. He is very nearly—I don’t say wholly, but very
nearly—in the condition of an animal in which the cerebral
hemispheres are not entirely extirpated, but very largely
damaged. And his state is' wonderfully interesting to me, for
it bears on the phenomena of mesmerism of which I saw a
good deal when I was a young man. In this state he is
capable of performing all sorts of actions on mere suggestions
—as, for example, he dropped his cane, and a person near him
put it into his hand, and the feeling of the end of the cane
evidently produced in him those molecular changes of the
brain which, had he possessed consciousness, would have
given rise to the idea of his rifle; for he threw himself on his
face, began feeling about for his cartouche, went through the
motions of loading his gun, and shouted out to an imaginary
comrade, “ Here they are, a score of them; but we will give a
good account of them.” This paper to which I refer is full of
the most remarkable examples of this kind, and what is the
most remarkable fact of all is the modifications which this
injury has made in the man’s moral nature. In his normal
life he is one of the most upright and honest of men. In his
abnormal state, however, he is an inveterate thief. He will
steal everything he can lay his hands upon—(Laughter)—and
if he cannot steal anything else he will steal his own things
and hide them away. (Laughter). Now, if Descartes had had
this fact before him, need I tell you that his theory of animal
automatism would have been enormously strengthened.
(Applause). He would have said, “ Here I show you a case
of a man performing actions evidently more complicated, and
mostly more rational, than any of the ordinary operations of
animals, and yet you have positive proof that these actions
are purely mechanical.
THE DOCTRINE OF IMMORTALITY AMONH THE
ANCIENT EGYPTIANS.
No. I.
Historical Study by G. Constant, Smyrna,; Member of the
Asiatic Society, Paris. Addressed to the British National
Association of Spiritualists. Translated from the French by
Emily Kislingbury.
“ While writing these lines on one of the most important
institutions of ancient Egypt (i.e., her religion), we are in¬
voluntarily reminded of the following words, taken from one
of the old Egyptian philosophical books attributed to Hermes:
‘ O Egypt, Egypt,’ it is there said, ‘ a time will come when, in¬
stead of a pure religion and a pure worship, thou wilt have
nothing but ridiculous fables, incredible to posterity, and
nothing will remain to thee but words graven upon stone, the
sole monuments to attest thy piety.' Time, and the misfortunes
which befell Egypt, brought about the realisation of this fatal
prophecy, and the literary nations that Egypt instructed have
vied with one another in ascribing to her the most absurd
beliefs, the most monstrous practices.”
It is thus that Champollion-Figeac begins his remarkable
article on the religion of the Ancient Egyptians.* Most success¬
fully has this learned Egyptologist exposed the fallacy of the
opinions diffused by clerical or so-called Christian teaching,
with regard to the religious dogmas of this grand civilisation
of the past.
To the popular and prejudiced historian, who does not take
the trouble to study deeply, Paganism appears a mere chaos of
idolatry and metempsychosis. But if the impartial student
will penetrate the colossal ruins of the deserted regions of the
Nile, and will seek to lift the veils of Isis and Osiris, he will
see that this famous religion was by no means a chaos of
absurdities, but that logical philosophy and sound observation
presided at its formation.
The narrow limits that I have allowed myself in this
article, prevent me from enlarging on this vast historical
* Sea VUnivers Pittoresque, vol. " Egypte Aneienne,” by Champollion-
Figeac, O.C.
subject; I therefore confine myself, in the manner of a
sketch, to the consideration of one of the dogmas of the
Egyptian religion. That dogma, with regard to which there
exists more than one error and prejudice, is the dogma of the
immortality of the soul.
1, The truths of history are often difficult of extrication
from the complications with which time has surrounded
them, unless a rational and critical method be adhered to. Of
all the methods of historical investigation, the best is to go
to the sources of events—the facts themselves. In history, no
certainty can be equal to that afforded us directly by the
monuments and inscriptions of the people. As regards our
present subject we are the more strongly impressed with the
notion of this necessity, the nation whose beliefs we wish to
examine being itself a complete mummery! No other resource
is therefore left us than to interrogate the mysterious
characters preserved in the granite and the papyrus. In
treatipg of these characters we must remember that the in¬
habitants of the valley of the Nile had at their disposal
writings as various as they were extremely figurative and
symbolic.
The name hieroglyphics is generally given to all the writings
of ancient Egypt, but it is necessary to distinguish between
them, the Egyptians having had three ways of expressing
their ideas. From the first, having had no phonetic alphabet,
they made use of hieroglyphic writing, properly so-called. This
was composed of figurative signs expressing the material form
or object; a drawing of an obelisk meant an obelisk. But by
degrees another kind of writing, both easier and more rapid,
was attained to—hieratic, or symbolic writing. This was, to a
certain extent, an abbreviated form of the figurative signs of
the former writing. Its characters expressed, not the form,
but the idea; thus the sun signified God, power; the dog,
defence; a lion meant a brave man. This writing was devoted
to religious and metaphysical subjects, and to the uses of the
priests.
This manner of expressing thought being still insufficient,
the development of social life in Egypt began to demand a
writing for common use, and gave rise to the demotic or
phonetic writing. This was again only an abridgment of the
former signs, but it had an alphabet like our own. When the
letter T was required, for instance, no new sign was invented,
but it was represented by a drawing of a symbolic hand, which
in Egyptian is called Tot, commencing with the letter T. In
the same manner the letter L was represented by a lion
couchant, which in Egyptian is Laba, beginning with the
letter L. Thus the new study was facilitated without in¬
venting fresh signs.
The Champollions who have thus classified the Egyptian
writings have fully explained why the signs of the phonetic
alphabet were represented by birds, insects, hands, &c. It was
because these three kinds of writing succeeded one another
by progressive stages, each new stage growing out of a
former one.
It must not, however, be supposed that, in order to inter¬
pret ancient Egyptian lore, it is sufficient to know only one of
these three kinds of writing. Although one was formed from
the other, the people who used the new method had not aban¬
doned the old, and even made use of all three in one compo¬
sition; and, in addition to the writing properly so-called, the
Egyptians used the art of drawing,^or subjects either real or
ideal. Instead of describing scenes of life, an agricultural
operation, or a religious ideal, they would draw figurative
pictures. They had recourse to this easy and expeditious
means in order to strike the eye, and to make clear at a glance
that which, if written, would take time to understand. It is
owing to this method that the papyrus and mural paintings
have initiated us into the customs and ideas of the ancient
Egyptians, without causing differences of interpretation
amongst us. We see the manners of this great people, and
we understand their ideas as clearly as they saw and under¬
stood them. Not content with words, which change their
meaning according to times and places, the Egyptians en¬
trusted the whole of their religious doctrines and their history
to pictorial designs. They had symbolic and realistic designs,
—the first for metaphysical ideas, the second for real objects.
We must not confound these two by supposing that the Egyp¬
tians worshipped only the form. Their God, the divine
attributes, vices, virtues, were invested with forms which
recalled the idea. The sun-god was symbolised by the hawk,
eternity by a circle, progress by wings, evil by a serpent, the
guardian spirit by a dog, a glutton by a sow, wisdom and love
by the head of the ibis. Mixed or hybrid figures were also
formed, as we compose words from several roots; thus, instead
Sept. 11, 1874.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
125
of saying a severe guardian, they joined a crocodile’s head to
a dog’s body, and made a species of Anubis.
I have given these details for the purpose of showing that
the ancient Egyptians were not so idolatrous as is generally
believed, and that in the interpretations of their religious
dogmas the form must not be taken for the idea.
THE TESTS AT THE PHILADELPHIA SEANCES.
BY BOBEET DALE OWEN', EOEMEELY AMEEICAN MINISTEE'
AX THE CODEX OE NAPLES.
The readers of The Spiritualist will better understand
the stringent precautions we adopted at the seances oi
which I recently sent you an account, from the
enclosed letter which appeared in a Philadelphia
paper, and which, perhaps, you may think worth
publishing:—
Philadelphia, July 15,1874.
Mv Dear Sir,—I delayed answering your letter of friendly
warning until I could reply with facts, which are better than
words. The actual appearance of spirit forms that are en¬
dowed with life so as to walk about, to converse, to touch us
and suffer us to touch them, to vanish and reappear before
one’s eyes, is a phenomenon so marvellous, that to a “ con¬
stitutional doubter” (as you admit that you are), the
hypothesis of a “ confederate in the flesh,” finding entrance
and exit through a partition separating the cabinet whence
these forms issue from the adjoining room, is natural enough.
The small difficulty is that facts are against it; and as you
are not one of those who, with the dogmatic Frenchman, will
reply, “ So much the worse for the facts,” I here briefly state
them.
Perhaps you know the ground floor of the house occupied
by Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, No. 50, North Ninth-street, is
entirely taken up by a musical instrument store. The second
floor has two rooms only, both above the store—a front
parlour, where the manifestations occur, and a back room,
Mr. Holmes’ bed chamber, these two having been connected
by a door. The door has been removed, and a black walnut
partition, eight feet high and five feet wide, of inch boards,
closes all communication between the rooms. This partition
is secured on each side by four stout battens, firmly screwed
on throughout their entire length. The boards are strongly
nailed to the framework of the discarded door.
The suspicion expressed in your letter that this partition
has been tampered with (so that a portion of it could be
removed and replaced in a few minutes at will) being shared
by others, it was proposed, at the close of a most successful
sitting, with ten persons present, held on the evening of the
5th of July, that permission be given at once to take the
partition to pieces, and this was assented to by Mr. and Mrs.
Holmes. All those present, including myself, witnessed the
result, and all of us, ere we parted, signed a certificate, in
which, after referring to the suspicion I have alluded to, we
added : “ We, the undersigned, having seen the battens that
bind said partition unscrewed, and otherwise critically
examined the same on both sides, hereby certify that the said
investigation has convinced us, beyond possible doubt, that.
such suspicion is utterly without foundation; that the said
partition was faithfully constructed by the mechanic who put
it up, and that the admission of any person or persons through
it was utterly impossible.”
The first three signers are, I think, known to you: Mr. Henry
Seybert, Mr. Ferdinand J. Dreer, and Mr. W. 0. Leslie. Their
examination occupied more than half an hour. But for
additional proof to the incredulous, Mr. Dreer proposed, and
had last evening a sitting, to which he invited four of his inti¬
mate friends; previous to which he examined the house (its only
occupant besides the Holmes’s, a seamstress, being then absent),
inspected the bed room most critically, saw the window of that
room barred, saw its door locked and placed a bit of adhesive
plaster over the keyhole, then sat down in the entry, so that
no one could go up or down stairs without passing him. The
door opening on the passage where he sat was left open during
the whole sitting.
Under these strict test conditions the manifestations were
triumphantly successful. Katie came out in full form five or
six times, and finally vanished and reappeared under the very
eyes of Mr. Dreer’s friends.
In the course of the evening she jestingly deplored Mr.
Dreer’s solitary condition, out in the entry alone, and asked
him if he hadn’t seen Katie King going up and down stairs.
Finally she invited him into the room, then advanced and
most gracefully saluted him. All present expressed their
entire satisfaction.
I cannot tell how far such a statement will satisfy you.
Dr. Carpenter, the celebrated English physiologist, speaking
of some wonderful phenomena connected with the human
organisation, says of certain persons: “ They have no place in
the existing fabric .of their thoughts into which such facts can
be fitted.” I hope you are not of the number.
If I return here in September, as I expect to do, I shall
avail myself with pleasure of your hospitable invitation to
Bidley Park.—I am, my dear sir, faithfully yours,
Lewis Belrose, Esq. Egbert Dale Owen.
MES. TAPPAN IN LIYEEPOOL.
Mrs. CoraL. V. Tappan is still lecturing in the North of Eng¬
land, and we had the pleasure of meeting her last Saturday at the
house of Mr. G. B. Hinde, Darlington. Last week she delivered
some trance orations at Liverpool, which were most enthu¬
siastically received by large audiences ; all her visits have done
much good to the cause of Spiritualism in that town. She
was the guest there of Mr. and Mrs. Nos worthy, of Avon Lea,
Birkenhead.
The Liverpool Mercury says of one of her trance lectures:—
” Last evening, Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, the well-known
Spiritualist, delivered the first of three * inspirational orations ’
in the Concert Hall, Lord Nelson-street. There was a mode¬
rate attendance. Dr. Hitchman, who presided, said they were
assembled for the purpose of listening to one of those remark¬
able addresses which had long since made the names of Mrs.
Tappan and her spirit guides most justly favoured as the
synonyms of brightness and beauty of soul, not only in Europe
and America, but throughout the civilised world. Spirit¬
ualism, he added, was that science which came to us as an
angel of light to disperse the darkness of materialism, and,
although it was regarded by some as furnishing to us only a
wilderness of weeds, experience and observation justified the
assertion that it was calculated ere long, if we brought to bear
upon it scientific culture in principle and practice, not only to
realise a garden of flowers for the present generation, but
to blossom in the coming ages of peace, purity, and per¬
fection, as the paradise of humanity. A committee of five
nominated to choose a subjectxfor the oration, submitted the
three following:—1. Under what circumstances, when, and
where, did moral evil begin ? 2. Is there in the spirit-world a
public opinion analogous to the public opinion of this world ?
3. Indisputable evidence of spirit communion with this world.
The chairman put the three subjects seriatim to the meeting,
and declared the last-named to be the one selected by a
majority. On this subject the lecturer discoursed in an ex¬
ceedingly eloquent manner for upwards of an hour. In proof
of spirit communion with this world, she first cited the Old
and New Testament authorities, and then showed that
Socrates and other ancient philosophers believed in the pre¬
sence of disembodied spirits. Luther, John Wesley, Sweden¬
borg, and Milton were also quoted as believers in the spiritual
idea which she enunciated. In recent times, spirit communi¬
cation was manifested to the Misses Fox in America, and
since then the phenomena had widely spread. In Liverpool
there were thousands who could testify that they had held
intelligent converse with the spirits of the departed: and
throughout the world there were no fewer than 24,000,000
believers in the phenomena. This fact, she contended, was
indisputable proof of the truth of modern Spiritualism, con¬
sequently, the burden of proof that it was an imposture rested
with Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall, and other scientific
professors who did not believe in the reality of the phenomena.
To her the wonder was that any intelligent mind could reject
the evidence which Spiritualists adduced. The proofs were
available to all by simply conforming to the conditions which
she described. At the close of the oration, Mrs. Tappan
cleverly replied to a number of questions, some of which had
no connection whatever with the subject on which she had
treated.”
“ Contents bills ” of every number of The Spiritualist
may now be had on application by local societies and by news¬
vendors, for exhibition in shop windows and at public meet¬
ings.
126
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 11, 1874,
MATERIALISED SPIRITS THROUGH MISS
SHOWERS’ MEDIUMSHIP.
BY J. C. LTTXMOOBE, J.P.
Haying received a kind invitation from Mrs. Showers,
I, on Saturday, the 29th inst., went to Hazledown,
Teignmouth, to spend two or three days. In the after¬
noon a gentleman, introduced to Mrs. Showers by a
mutual friend, called, and was permitted to join the
evening circle. We first had a dark seance, when the
usual manifestations took place. We then sat for a
materialisation seance. Florence and Lenore came out
in full form, permitting all present to come quite close,
and with a subdued light, thoroughly examine their
features. Florence was quiet, and rather sombre, but
Lenore was full of life. Florence was much taller and
altogether larger than Miss Showers; Lenore seemed
to be about the same size as her medium. It was an
excellent seance, but nothing occurred which has not
frequently been seen under Miss Showers’ mediumship.
During all Sunday we at intervals had the voices,
raps, and tilts of the table; in the evening we had a
short dark seance, when, while I was holding Miss
Showers’ left hand, a heavy dining-room chair was
placed on the table, Miss Showers not, as far as I
could understand, moving. I tried afterwards to do
the same thing, and although I did get the chair on
the table, it was with a great effort, and I feel sure
that any one holding my other hand must have known
that I was using considerable muscular. force. Mrs.
Showers, the only other person in the room, was on
my left. I held her left hand the whole time, and a
large round table wa,s between her and the chair.
We then sat for a full form materialisation, with the
hope of my seeing the medium and the spirit at the
same time ; this I was enabled to do, and not only so,
but I was permitted to touch the medium while Florence
was holding my hand; in fact, I was inside the cur¬
tain, and close to the sofa on which Miss Showers was
reclining. Miss Showers, fortunately, had a light-
coloured skirt on; the other portion of her dress was
black, but open at and a little below the throat. I
saw the dress and throat perfectly, and touched
what must have been a portion of the medium’s
body, also her hair. I did not require such
evidence to prove Miss Showers’ manifestations to
be genuine, but am free to confess I am much pleased
at having been permitted so great a privilege. I have
omitted to state that at Mrs. Showers' particular request
I very securely tied Miss Showers’ hands together with
tape, sewing the ends, and sealing the sewing with my
seal.* I, knowing what has been said about tying, was
very careful both in securing the wrists and examining
both the sewing and seal, which were both quite per¬
fect when the seance ended. I need scarcely say that
Florence’s hands were free. I am not so weak and
inexperienced as for a moment to flatter myself that
this evidence will be of the least avail with those who
have so committed themselves that if they admitted its
validity they would have to go through the—to most
persons—unpleasant task of eating their own words.
I think Miss. Showers one of—if not, all things con¬
sidered—the very best mediums I have ever seen. It is
to me most wonderful that she should be so, when it is
recollected under what disadvantages she laboured in
the early stages of her mediumship.
Schooner Yacht Ariadne, August 30,1874.
* There is no mistake as to the security and efficiency ot Mr. Luxtnoore’s
tying1, and his non-tendency to exaggeration in describing what he ob¬
serves.—Eh.
SPIRITUALISM IN BISHOP AUCKLAND.
ORGANISATION OE SPIRITUALISTS AT BISHOP AUCKLAND.
The Bishop Auckland Association of Spiritualists has been
established a little more than six months, and its object
is stated to be:—“ To engage lecturers and mediums, and
individually and collectively to promote a knowledge of spirit
communion, and of the spiritual enlightenment which follows
the intelligent use of such knowledge.” The president of the
society is Mr. S. S. Lingford, the vice-president, Mr. J. P.
Soutter; treasurer, Mr. F. Everitt; and secretary, Mr. J.
Gibson. The members of the council are Mr. It. Faucitt,
Mr. T. Faucitt, Mrs. Faucitt, Miss Faucitt, Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon, Mr. Lobley, Mr. Metcalf, Mr. Tinkler, Mr. Robson,
Mr. Meek, Mr. Binns, Mr. Cooper, and Mr. Summers. To suit
the poorer members, the subscription is only sixpence per
month, and it is astonishing what an amount of good the
society has done in bringing trance and other mediums to the
district, by individually subscribing this small sum monthly
to meet possible balance of loss over any lecture or other
undertaking. The results ought to encourage Spiritualists, in
even the smallest localities, to make an attempt at organisation.
MR. MEEK’S MEDITJMSHIP.
Some members of Mr. Faucitt’s family are very celebrated
physical mediums, and are now sitting for the development of
more advanced physical manifestations. Mr. Meek is a
well-known local medium for trance manifestations. His
mediumship was first developed about three years ago ; he has
his eyes shut, and is totally unconscious while speaking in the
trance state, and from first to last has had no disagreeable
experiences with undeveloped spirits. He has only had one
vision in his life, and that was in the day-time ; he then saw
a lady friend of his pass by him and heard her mention her
husband’s name; he discovered afterwards that at that very
moment she died many miles away. When he is entranced,
one spirit after another takes control of him, but they have
the peculiar habit of laying him fiat on his back on the floor
between each control; as each spirit gains control he first
makes the medium sit up on end, with his chin on a level with
the top of the table, and after delivering a few words in this
position he is made to stand up or to take a seat in his chair.
He is a middle-aged man, and works so hard at his occupation
during the day, that he has little vitality left to bear the strain
upon the system incidental to frequent trance seances.
On Thursday evening, last week, there was a private seance
with Mr. Meek, at the house of Mr. F. Everitt, Bishop Auck¬
land ; Mr. and Mrs. F. Everitt, Mr. and Mrs. Gibson, Mrs.
Suggett, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and other friends were present.
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun., was expected, but did not come. While
Mr. Meek was being influenced as a trance medium, a lady
medium present was strongly influenced in her arms and
hands at the same moments of time—a circumstance which is
not uncommon at such seances. The controlling power told
this lady to sit next to Mr. Meek, and not on the other side of
the table, as her proximity would aid their efforts to com¬
municate. One of the spirits who spoke said that he had
quitted earth life in consequence of being shot through the
heart. On awaking from the trance, Mr. Meek had a pain in
his heart. Analogous experiences to this have been passed
through by other trance mediums, tending to show how the
phenomena are correlated everywhere.
We have shorthand notes of the trance address delivered.
It was of fair quality, and to the effect that spirits are return¬
ing to earth to prove that there is a connecting link between
this world and the next, and are causing a new revelation to
burst upon the earth. The principle of “ a pure mind in a
pure body” was strongly advocated, and it was stated that an
inharmonious condition of the body was a barrier, to a certain
extent, to the best mental and spiritual development, there
being constant action and reaction between the spiritual and
material states.
Mr. Morse’s Medttjmship.—Mr. Morse, an excellent
English trance-medium, has had to fight many hard battles
in this country for years, in consequence of the smallness of
the Spiritual movement in England, and the consequent
absence of adequate support to those who are endowed with
gifts like his own. The last opportunity of hearing a dis¬
course from him in London, before he goes to America, will
occur next Sunday evening, at the Cleveland Hall, under the
auspices of the National Association, and a large attendance
is expected. Will not his annual soiree take plade before
I he leaves ?
Sept. 11, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
127
NEWSPAPER ABUSE.
The following disgraceful abuse was, to the dis¬
honour of Spiritual literature, published in The Medium
last week, under the title of “ Penny-a-linerism versus
Spiritualism,,:—
Spiritualists throughout the country have been astonished
at the eager viciousness with which the penny-a-liners have
taken up the Newcastle dark-lantern seance case, and repro¬
duced the untruthful side of the affair because it was offensive
to Spiritualists. The real truth is carefully suppressed, while
the falsehoods are industriously circulated without any care as
to whether the act of so doing be for the right or for the wrong.
To this line of conduct every thinking and moral person has
been long familiar. The newspapers are financial speculations
who sell themselves to the highest bidder. The genuine
penny-a-liner is scarcely a man, and is held in contempt by
all men of honour or genius. He is the champion of the mob
whose cry is “ Crucify him! crucify him ! ” It matters not
whether the service be for Whig or Tory, Catholic or Pro¬
testant Churchman or Dissenter, Imperialist; or Republican,
the man of “ copy ” will defend or abuse without scruple of
conscience if he can earn thereby his penny a line. The
penny-a-liner must have a party—a clique ; he cannot work for
a cause, for a truth, for God, or for humanity. Such service is
on a moral plane to him inaccessible. Like all serfs he must
have a master to serve and an enemy to abuse.
These things in the outside world, where truth and honour
are held at a discount, are just what might be expected; but
have we any of that sort of thing in Spiritualism ? We allow
facts to answer by quoting a letter addreesnd to the editor of
The Spiritualist, and which appeared in last week’s issue of
that paper:—
“ Explanations.—Sir,—Under the head of ‘ Answers to Cor¬
respondents,’in your issue of August 7th, the following note
appears :—‘ J.—If Mr. Kilburn is one of his greatest creditors
he ought to say so when he urges the public to keep the other
person well supplied with money. ’
“ I believe I am correct in assuming that I am the Mr.
Kilburn alluded to, and that the scarcely veiled statement
alludes to my being a large creditor of Mr. J. Burns, the pro¬
prietor of the Spiritual Institution, 15, Southampton-row,
London.
“ I therefore take the opportunity of saying that the state¬
ment is entirely false. I am not a large creditor of Mr.
Burns, nor have I any money claim against him whatever.
“ It may or it may not be that I have spent money in the
cause of Spiritualism—that certainly is my own affair; nor
do L see why, therefore, I should be insulted by those who
have come in ‘ at the eleventh hour.’
“ Surely it is but reasonable to expect of one who has
undertaken the sacred duty of an editor and leader of opinion
in the ranks of Spiritualists that he would have so far sub¬
dued the flesh as to be incapable of slandering an unoffending
stranger by covertly imputing to him motives of the basest
and most carnal description. Yet, in the above-quoted para¬
graph, under the cowardly refuge of an ‘ if,’ it is imputed
against me that I—a large creditor of Mr. Burns—did indite
an appeal to the Spiritualists of this country, begging them,
for the love of truth and progress, to aid in sustaining his
work, while, all the time, my real motive was to save my own
cash from annihilation.
“ This imputation-in-ambush is both baseless and malig¬
nant ; and no one, I am sure, will envy the writer the posses¬
sion of motives sinister enough to render its evolution possible.
“ Bishop Auckland, Aug. 15th.” “ N. Kilbubn, Jun.
“ [Floating statements have been current of the two being connected by
business transactions. We are pleased to have been the means of throw¬
ing daylight upon the matter, and to publish the above statement, that any
such rumours have not, and never did have, any foundation. Had the
facts been the other way, it was only right and just that the public should
know the same, under the circumstances; and it was in their interest, and
not with any desire to annoy Mr. Kilbum—a stranger to us—the question
was raised. It does not follow that, if one person is connected with another
in business transactions, he will necessarily publish biassed opinions about
that other.—Ed.] ”
This is a curious specimen of the “Ethics of Spiritualism.”
Where did the “ floating statements ” come from ? It is not
our business to supply evidence in this matter or we might
trace the “ statements ” to a source connected with the party
on the behalf of which they were “ floated,” and that the
“statements” could not be termed “ current ” till the para¬
graph to “ J.” rendered them so. Unless some explanation
of this extraordinary conduct be forthcoming we must suppose
that this party “ floats statements ” without the slightest
regard to their truth, and then gives them “ currency.” The
editor, by his silence, admits that this kind, of conduct is an
“ insult,” that it is “ slandering an unoffending stranger,”
and that it is “ baseless and malignant,” and yet he can
coolly excuse himself for such acts. Well may William
Howitt ask if Spiritualists are any better than the rest of
mankind.
We do not quote this case and publish comments thereon
for the purpose of vilifying the offending parties. The world
is capable of judging as to the merits of this affair without any
additional colouring; we write simply to warn Spiritualists
against accepting as truth without due care other statements
emanating from the same quarter. This instance is only one
of a series extending over years, the object of all of which has
been to injure our position,, impair our usefulness, and,
if possible, drive us from the field—a field which we cultivated
years before the offending editor heard of Spiritualism, and
from which he gleaned his early lessons on the subject. Besides
self-defence, we have to point out the evils arising from party¬
forming policy. In the same paper appear notes to a letter in
which the writer states that all who do not join his clique
when invited to do so, are schismatics and the enemies of
union and fraternity. Than this nothing could be more
impudent or intolerant. Before the advent of this
party Spiritualists were united. Indeed they are so now, for
there are only some 150 persons connected with the body for
whom this editor acts as whip. Yes, the Spiritualists are
united; it is the nationalists who are the schismatics. Again
we would remark that if Spiritualists require a newspaper,
they had better originate one for themselves, and not avail
themselves of the services of a professional penny-a-liner.* The
low moral tone of the hirelings of the fourth estate entirely
unfits them for, above all things, taking part in a spiritual
movement. The newspaper people have been all along the
open enemies of Spiritualism, availing themselves of every
opportunity to attack it or its adherents. Need we point for
proof of our statement to the case we quote in which one of
the most liberal Spiritualists, and the public bepbesentative
op the cause, are foully dealt with because forsooth they have
dared to expend their [?] means and serve humanity as their
inspirations directed.
The truth of the whole matter is stated by Mr.
Everitt in another column to be, that some time since
Mr. Kilburn lent Mr. Burns, the editor of The Medium,
£400, and an arrangement, was made whereby Mr.
Kilburn expected to work with Mr. Burns in his book¬
shop as his partner. They were perfectly aware of this
when writing the abuse just quoted, and thus do the
black and gigantic charges against us collapse like a
balloon, when pricked by a few simple words of truth.
Mr. Kilburn, in his letter given above, says the money
is not owing at the present time, and what he says is
always reliable. We should not impute anything worse
than bad taste to persons for mutually admiring each
other in public, if they were privately connected by
large business transactions.
It seems a sad waste of space to reprint an article
like the above, so full of bad feeling; but, as Mr. Burns
has been creating a great deal of dissension in the
Spiritual movement lately by circulating unreliable
statements tending to impede friendly national organ¬
isation, we have quoted the article to show his nature,
and to show the necessity for the publication of the fol¬
lowing article, in which the unreliability of the state¬
ments he circulates is clearly and specifically pointed
out.
MESSRS. BURNS AND KILBURN.
Mb. Bubns is a bookseller in London, who chiefly sells
spiritual publications. He is much at variance with metro¬
politan Spiritualists because among other things, he in his
advertisements calls his business of which he is the sole
proprietor—“ The Spiritual Institution,” and himself the
* There is nol a word of truth in this remark. The person untruthfully
described as “ a penny-a-liner,” (who are persons who get a living by in¬
dustry and not by begging), has never done any-such work in his life,
and is chiefly a leading article writer for standard journals,—Ed. of
Spiritualist.
128
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 11, 1874.
“ Managing Representative,” he further prints that it is con¬
ducted on a “Plan of Association.” This conveys the idea to
the general public and to uninformed Spiritualists in the
provinces, that Mr. Burns is the head of a great organisation
of which he is the representative, whereas he possesses merely
a private business like that of any other bookseller; he is not
a managing representative of Spiritualists, and there is no
association conducting the business. In his advertisements
he further states that the alleged Institution is divided into
the Library Department, the Financial Department, the
Publishing Department, and the General Business Department,
thus further conveying the idea to people out of London that
it is a great public establishment, the truth being that all the
“departments” are comprised in an ordinary little shop,
with a counter about eight or ten feet long. Mr. Burns further
prints in his advertisements—
“ This Institution extends its influence all over the country. At the
Central Office, 15, Southampton-row, are rooms for seances and other
experiments.”
The phrase “Central Office” conveys the idea to readers
that he has other public offices elsewhere—which he has not.
Therefore, in London, it is felt by Spiritualists to be a wrong
thing that Mr. Burns should to some extent commit them in the
eyes of the public, by printing circulars implying that a great
organisation exists of which he is the managing representative,
when such statements have no foundation in truth. He has
no authority for spreading circulars broadcast, implying that
he is the managing representative of London Spiritualists, or
others.
Just as it would be the duty of a newspaper in a country
town to point out the truth, if a local tradesman de¬
scribed himself, in connection with a great public movement,
as the managing representative of an association which had
no existence, similarly is it the duty of Spiritual periodicals
in London to do likewise.
As an example of the scale on which Mr. Burns describes
the various departments of the alleged institution, we quote
the following from the description of the “ Financial Depart¬
ment” in one of his published advertisements:—
“ Financial Department.—Thousands of pounds have been expended on
the work of the Spiritual Institution. A part of this money has been
subscribed by Spiritualists, but the greater part of it has devolved on
private resources, occasioning considerable responsibility to the managing
representative. Last year upwards of 800 individuals subscribed a sum of
5571. 6s. Id.”
This conveys the idea to the public not only that Spirit¬
ualists have appointed a managing representative, but that
they have dishonourably left him to pay their liabilities.
The truth is, that Mr. Burns has published that sometimes
he has received, in the form of free gifts, as much as
£500 a year, in consequence of asking Spiritualists for money
to help him to carry on his private business. He has also
published that, in addition, he has run up heavy debts; once
he printed that he was in debt to the extent of £1,000, and
asked Spiritualists at large to give him money to help him
out. With some of the funds given to him by Spiritualists,
or borrowed from persons who have wives and families, he has
for some years been selling some of his goods under cost price,
thereby inflicting heavy financial losses upon others who had
also to do with Spiritual literature, but whose moral and reli¬
gious principles would not allow them to run into debt or to
beg for money, so were unable to work by his methods. After
a time it was found necessary to point out to the
public the unintended bad effect of their kind-hearted, indis¬
criminate charity upon persons working in a more legiti¬
mate Way; then, in justice, some reparation was made for
the financial injuries which had been unintentionally inflicted.
When a real organisation of Spiritualists was recently
formed, and real representatives elected by vote by ballot, Mr.
Bums refused to print its advertisements in his weekly trade
circular, which reaches the more uneducated among the poorer
Spiritualists who liye in country districts.
Occasionally Mr. Burns would publish letters from persons
residing in remote country places', expressing unbounded
admiration of himself as a suitable person to do public work
in a religious movement, and to satisfy the highest aspira¬
tions of searchers after spiritual truth. Mr. Richmond, of
Darlington, wrote one such letter recently, and Mr. N. Kil-
bum, jun., of Bishop Auckland, has written a great many,
recommending the public to give plenty of money to Mr.
Burns. People living far off in the country have sometimes
responded to such appeals. Information was privately volun¬
teered us by respectable individuals that Messrs. Burns and
Kilburn, who were admiring each other so much in public,
were privately connected by business ties in the shape of
heavy monetary transactions, and when in the public interests
we merely remarked that if the statements were true the
public to whom the appeals were made ought to know it, Mr.
Kilburn wrote a most censorious letter in reply, which we
published. He denied that the commercial connection
existed, or that he had any money claim on Mr. Burns, and as
Mr. Kilburn bears the name of a truthful and conscientious
man, much respected in Bishop Auckland, his word is
sufficient. Still his censorious remarks on ourselves for
merely asking the question, and not stating it as a fact, were
entirely out of place, for there was no ill-will or scandal in
any of those who raised the question as to their business con¬
nection, the more especially because at one time they were
connected with each other by heavy financial transactions, as
shown in the following letter, the statements in which agree
with information which had previously reached us from other
truthful sources:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist ”
Sir,—Probably the cause of the rumour of the existence of a business con¬
nection between Mr. Bums and Mr. Kilburn, that you refer to, having been
afloat since Mr. Kilburn’s urgent public appeals on behalf of Mr. Burns’
business establishment—or, as Mr. Burns prefers to call it, “ Spiritual
Institution ”—was as follows
Some four or flve.years since it was generally believed (and not without
some ground) among many Spiritualists in London, that Mr. Kilbum was
likely to become one of the active managers or partners in that
establishment.
I am sure Mr. Kilburn 'will remember telling me that he had put four
hundred pounds into the concern at 15, Southampton-row, and that he
looked forward with considerable pleasure to the time when the business
there should have grown sufficiently large to require his services. This he
did not tell me as a secret, and he may have told others; at all events
they have got it from some source.
My object in writing this letter is to help to remove any unjust feelings
produced by Mr. Kilburn’s last letter from the minds of those who knew of
his pecuniary interest and his anticipated labours in that establishment.
If persons knew Mr. Kilburn as well as I do, they would not attribute any
sordid or selfish motive to him in penning that letter. He is a warm per¬
sonal friend of Mr. Burns, and would therefore, looking at it from the
lowest point of view, very naturally aid properly like to see him succeed in
business. But Mr. Kilburn was influenced by even a higher motive; I
doubt not a more universal feeling of brotherhood pervaded his mind
when he penned that letter. He is a hard and generous worker in our
common cause, and let us with him strive to promote, each in his own
way, its best interests for humanity’s sake, not finding time to think, much
less to speak an unkind word of any one. T. Everixt.
Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
When Mr. Burns printed some unfounded attacks upon Mrs.
Tappan’s lecture committee, he suppressed the reply sent to
him by one of the members of the committee. When he
printed statements the reverse of fact about the National
Association, he suppressed and did not publish the contradic¬
tion sent to him officially by the Council through its secre¬
taries. The public are therefore requested to now see whether
he has the honour to print the above letter by Mr. Everitt for
the information of his unfortunate readers, who are chiefly
uneducated {people, or whether he will allow the censorious
letter by Mr. Kilbum to exert its influence uncontradicted by
the statement of all the facts of the case ; not that it matters
much, for truth and a clear conscience form a rhinoceros-like
hide, proof against all the shafts of evil.
There is one other bit of public mischief done by Mr. Bums,
which it is the duty of a newspaper to point out in the public
interests. A National Association of Spiritualists has been
formed, to permit friendly people who dislike dissension, to
work harmoniously together, and to elect representatives by
vote by ballot to do necessary public work. Mr. Bums has
published that this organisation is got up in opposition to him,
conveying the idea that a body of Spiritualists could join
together to injure an honest man in his business. No charge
could be more unfounded. The National Association was not
formed for the purpose of starting an opposition bookshop,
and the question of the desirability of starting a bookshop at
all has never for one moment occupied any attention at any of
its meetings. Tet he has in his weekly trade circular put the
idea already mentioned into the heads of the more uneducated
Spiritualists, whom he is able to reach because the large amounts
of public money he has received, long enabled him to sell his
weekly organ considerably under cost price. Nothing can be
more unfounded than the charge that the honourable people
who compose the National Association, would do such a foul
thing as to try to injure an honest man in his business; their
very names are guarantees that such cannot possibly be the
case. Who are the persons charged with harbouring such
foul designs? On looking down the list of its members
we find the names of Lady Caithness, who has never
done anything but good to the friends of Spiritualism
Dr. Gully, of Malvern, who has advocated the truth of
Spiritualism for half a generation; Mrs. Ross-Church,
the daughter of Captain Marryat, and editress of London
Sept. 11, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
129
Society, a journal •whioh has printed so much, truth about
Spiritualism; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, whose labours for
a lifetime in the cause of Spiritualism need no comment; Mr.
H. D. Jencken, a friend of Mr. Burns, and the husband pf
Kate Fox; Mr. A. 0. Swinton, who in great business trans¬
actions is connected with Mr. Burns as closely as Mr. Kilburn
once was, but who has not publicly expressed his admiration;
Mr. 0. W. Pearce, who worked so hard publicly to establish a
knowledge of Spiritualism in the Kilburn district; Mrs. Cora
L. Y. Tappan, who is possessed of one of those kindly disposi¬
tions which never wishes any harm to anybody; Mr. James
Wason, Mr. John Lamont, and Mr. Chapman, three of
the pioneers of Spiritualism in Liverpool; Messrs. Hinde
Brothers of Darlington; Mr. Bowman, of Glasgow; Mr. F.
Everitt, of Bishop Auckland, and so on through a long list of
honourable names of good workers in the cause. Yet these
are accused of banding together to oppose an honest trades¬
man and public lecturer! The unfounded accusation has
further had the effect of inducing some of the more unin¬
formed Spiritualists to hold aloof from joining in the friendly
work of national organisation now going on, as the honorary
secretaries have discovered by correspondence which has
reached them. Thus harm to the movement has been done
by the publication of an unfounded charge against honourable
people. The only person on the Council we can call to mind
as ever having been related in an unfriendly manner to Mr.
Burns, is Mr. Benjamin Coleman; but as Mr. Burns had
written him a letter containing such expressions as “ Don’t
tell lies, Benjy 1” “A mouthful of thistles would be more to
your taste I ” and so on, any lack of friendliness on the part
of Mr. Coleman is not to be wondered at. This letter of
Mr. Burns to Mr. Coleman was published in the Christian
Spiritualist.
Fortunately there is little dissension among thoughtful
London Spiritualists, and those of a friendly nature are now
seizing the opportunity of banding together. It is rarely that
it becomes our public 4uty, backed by no personal bad feeling,
to call attention to disagreeable public matters like the doings
of Mr. Burns, nor shall we refer to the evils often* if they
continue to exist. If Mr. Burns continues to publish broad¬
cast that he is the managing representative of a large spiritual
institution, a warning from us that it is not so, published
about once every three months, will be sufficient to save new
Spiritualists in the provinces and in foreign countries from
being misled. If Mr. Burns ceases to misrepresent honourable
people, and ceases to commit Spiritualists to his doings by
announcing himself to be a managing representative, and by
printing things implying that there is an organisation or in¬
stitution which really has no existence, he will find this
journal quiet enough about him. If he does not like to call
his shop a shop, why not call it “ Mr. Burns’ Institution”—a
title which would mislead nobody? As Mr. Squeers said,
when he explained that Dotheboys Hall had no existence ex¬
cept in advertisements, “ There is no Act of Parliament
against a man calling his house an island if he likes,” pro¬
vided always that the title does not injure his neighbours.
Mr. Burns has demanded and received heavy sums of money
from the public, on the plea that he exerts himself extraordi¬
narily to disseminate spiritual literature; whereas he some¬
times quashes altogether some of the orders sent to him un¬
solicited for certain portions of it, as the Psychological
Society of Liverpool and others can testify. But perhaps
this is only the ordinary sort of thing in trade competition;
at all events he may carry it on as long as he likes without
further comment from us, as it is a minor' matter compared
with his declaring himself to be a managing representative of
a public institution, and it is not a congenial task to point out
the failings of our neighbours.
The Nomeeclatube op Spiritualism.—One of the
papers read before the National Conference had the words
“ audible voice ” in its title, which title was published in the
Daily News. Who ever heard of an ” inaudible voice?” We
took the liberty of changing the title to the “direct spirit
voice.” The words“ audible voice” convey a clear idea to
Spiritualists, and mean that wholly or partially materialised
spirits are talking as any mortal in the room would do, and
sending waves of sound through the air ; the term “ audible ”
is used to distinguish it from the voices heard spiritually by
clairaudiants, which voices cannot be heard by other persons
in the same room. But as the term “ audible voice ” must
sound like an ignorant expression to the educated general
public, we suggest that “ direct voice ” be substituted.
A STRANGE STORY ABOUT STONE THROWING
BY SPIRITS.
The following remarkable narrative we find in the
New York Evening Post of August 18th, one of the
leading daily newspapers of America, and we are glad
to state that Mr. Epes Sargent is now inquiring into-
its authenticity :—
A FAMILIAR SPIRIT INDEED.
From New Martinsville, West Ya., comes the latest
ghost story. If we may credit the account given
by the Wheeling Intelligencer, there lives, twenty-five
miles up Fishing Creek, and about twenty miles from
Burton, one Henry Nolan, a wealthy, and altogether
respectable gentleman. Mr. Nolan has a son John,
thirteen years of age. He is a bright, intelligent boy,
and has always, until lately, been in good health and
spirits. Early last spring, however, he began to be
troubled in a manner unaccountable to his parents, who
at first thought he had lost his reason. He was followed,
he said, continually when in the house, by an old grey¬
headed man. He could see this man plainly, but no
one else could. John’s parents becoming alarmed, sent
him away from home, and he remained some time,
experiencing no annoyance while absent. His friends,
thinking his mind sound and health restored, sent for
him, and he returned, but]to have his every step dogged
in the same mysterious manner.
Now the affair took a different turn, and stones began
to be hurled at him by this old but invisible man. If
John was in the house the stones would fall upon the
roof; likewise if he was in any of the outbuildings. If
he was in the yard or fields—in fact, in any place out¬
doors—they would fall around and upon him, but never
hurt him. These stones varied in size from the
dimensions of a pullet’s egg to those of a human fist.
They could be seen coming through the air, but from
whose hand John alone could tell. He could always
plainly see the old man hurling them at him. Things
went on in this way for some time, John steadily and
rapidly failing in health and strength till July, when
he again left home, and, as before, was not troubled
during his absence. He was to return on Sunday,
the 9th of the month, and now some of the friends and
neighbours determined to ferret out and expose the
whole business. Accordingly, on Saturday four men
armed themselves and went to the house.
Early Sunday morning, before John was up (he was
never in any way disturbed while asleep), they
surrounded the building, first being careful that within
their circuit no one was concealed. Scarcely had John
arisen when the stones began falling almost in a shower
on the roof. Looking up into the air, the party could
see them dropping like rain, but whence they came, or
by what power impelled, was a complete mystery. Of
one fact all were assured: they were thrown by no one
within a long distance of the house.
After breakfast John came out and the stones fell
thick and fast around him now, apparently coming
from a field near the house. John could distinctly see
his old assailant in the field, so with rifles cocked the
men moved in that direction. The boy described the
ghost as sitting in a small bunch of briar bushes—the
very one whence the bombardment proceeded. The
patch was instantly surrounded, rushed upon with clubs
and stones, and John saw the old man enter another.
This was in its turn surrounded, but with the same
130
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 11, 1874,
effect. Sometimes after coming from a patch the old
man would enter another a few feet 'away, sometimes
dash across the field. All Sunday the search went on,
hut without success. On Monday, however, while the
storming party were running from briar heap to briar
heap, their victim became suddenly visible to all. He
was dressed in blue trousers and shirt, of fine-looking
material. He was hatless, but his long white flowing
beard and hair hung in profusion around his shoulders
and over his breast. His face was pale, his eyes clear
and sharp, and black as night. He was ordered to
surrender, but did not deign to stir. The men then
closed upon him, but he darted off like a deer. Mean¬
while the stones continued to rattle down, though pro¬
pelled by some other power than the arm of the
phantom.
John started in pursuit, running with such swiftness
that he kept by the old man’s side, while the rest of the
party were left far behind. Again the strange being
entered a thicket of briars, and became invisible to all
except the boy. As soon as he was driven from that
hiding-place he entered another; and so-the chase went
on. Once more during the day he appeared in full
sight, and this time as he still spurned all attempts to
make him surrender, it was decided to shoot him. One
of the men took deliberate aim with his rifle and'fired.
The spirit, unhurt, bounded off. Another pursuer fired,
but in vain. The two men prepared to reload their
rifles, but upon neither of them was there a lock, both
having fallen off.
For two days this hunt proceeded, without satisfac¬
tory results. On Tuesday, however, a smoke was ob¬
served to arise from every bush whence the stones came.
Another singular circumstance was connected with this,
namely, that an Indian hen, a bird found everywhere
in that part of the country, was seen to rise from each
bush, and fly to another, the volley seeming to follow
in the wake of her flight. JSTo conclusion having been
arrived at with regard to this mystery, the investiga¬
tion is abandoned. John, now weak and emaciated,
wasted away to a shadow of his former self, has been
sent away from home, and had not, up to the time the
report was written, returned.
This story, incredible as it may seem, comes to the
Intelligencer supported by the names of citizens well
known in the neighbourhood where the events are
alleged to have occurred.
SPIRITUALISM IN MARTLEBONE.
Last Monday night the monthly social meeting of the
Marylebone Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was
held at 6, Blandford-street, Baker-street, Portman-square,
London. Mr. G. F. Tilby was voted into the chair, and a
conversational discussion on various subjects took place.
The Chairman said that the rooms in which they then met
had been engaged by the Association for five nights per week,
namely, from Monday to Friday inclusive. On Wednesday
evenings discussions took place on general subjects; on Tues¬
days and Fridays seances were held with non-professional
mediums, and on Mondays other business was sometimes
transacted. The rooms were still frequently at liberty for
one or two evenings in the week. The society wanted
more mediums; plenty of sitters would attend if good mediums
were present.
Mr. Charles Hunt "could not understand how Professor
Tyndall could make deprecatory remarks about Spiritualism,
when his scientific co-workers, Messrs. Crookes, Yarley, and
Cox testified its facts to be true; Professor Tyndall ought,
therefore, to have paused before uttering remarks savouring
of fancied superiority. When he (Mr. Hunt) became con¬
vinced that the tapping noises were not made by any person
in the body, this seemed to him to be a profound mystery in
itself, and it seemed greater, and grander, and more glorious
still, when, intelligence was demonstrated to govern the sounds.
Such facts demanded and would receive the attention of the
best intellects of the age. Spiritualists should try to lead such
good lives as to draw attention to the movement by that cir¬
cumstance alone.
Mr. C. White said that if the Fays were mediums, it was a
disgraceful thing they should act like professional conjurors ;
if they were Spiritualists, they should say so. It was a funny
thing that that society was tinged with the same spirit, for it
called itself an association of “ inquirers ” merely. He never
called himself an inquirer, but told people first that he was a
heathen, and next that he was a Spiritualist, so that he thus
clearly defined his position at once.
Mr. Frost said that Spiritualists should love one another
more and more, that he was a Spiritualist of fifteen years’
standing, and was the founder of the St. John’s Association.
A discussion then took place about the mediumship of Mr.
Fever, Mrs. Freehold, and Miss Maynard. Mrs. Freehold was
said to be a reliable clairvoyant, and Miss Maynard a good
medium for table manifestations.
Several recitations and songs were given in the course of the
evening.
Mr. Arthur Maltby proposed and Mr. Hunt seconded a vote
of thanks to the chairman, and the proceedings closed.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALISM IN SWANSEA.
Sir,—We have had a visit at Swansea from Messrs. Peck
and Sadler, mediums, from Cardiff, this week, and had four
seances, at each of which fourteen to eighteen persons were
present. A guitar, flutina, bell, and drum were on the table,
playing in turns, and sometimes moving about the room, or
touching us on different parts of our bodies. They sometimes
touched the ceiling, and various other astonishing things took
place. One of the instruments lay on my knee for a short
time, and was then lifted by an invisible agency. Several
short lectures were given through the mediums.
We have formed a circle of ladies and gentlemen, who meet
on Wednesday evenings, and we are progressing well. We
hope soon to have some good manifestations.
At a private seance with the two mediums in daylight we
had loud knocks on the table, which was also lifted up, with
its three legs clear of the floor. H. Hudson.
Swansea, August 24th, 1874.
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
Sir,—Having returned from my annual tour on the Con¬
tinent, it may be acceptable, as a kind of supplement to my
report of last year, to state my impressions in regard to the
progress of Spiritualism in Germany. In Hamburg and
Altona I found not the slightest advance, and the general tone
of argument, spiced with sneering and coarse expressions, was
even more offensive than before. This may be partly due to
the more perceptible contrast with my own increased conviction
of the truth, but I believe that we shall hardly see in the
north the first signs of movement. On the Rhine I found the
same indifference, but the prospect of a brilliant vine-harvest
may have something to do with it this time, and as the
favourite motto says, “In wine there is truth!” this favourable
turn in the vintage may be beneficial to the cause after all.
Among the pet arguments against the phenomena, I heard
the following old story put forward with would-be killing
effect:—A valuable bank note (of England) has been deposited
in Paris, to be owned by the clairvoyant who will read the
number, which is carefully concealed. For twenty years the
tempting prisoner has waited for the deliverer. But I told
them how they could raise £1,000 without calling supernatural
powers into play, in accepting Signor Damiani’s challenge. I
hope that gentleman will not be angry if he should read this,
if I propose on my own responsibility a renewal of this
challenge, provided, of course, that other clever people have
not carried off the prize long ago. If not, there would be a
chance to do good work to science and humanity. Let the
learned professors not any longer withhold how the thing is
done, but prove it on Signor Damiani’s terms, and the £1,000
may form the foundation of a lunatic asylum for the deluded
Spiritualists !
But all these discouraging experiences were more than
Sept. 11, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
balanced in the unmistakable earnestness and activity I met
with in Leipzig. The fortification against gross materialism
seems reinforced by A. Aksakof’s liberal'hand, and bids fair to
stand a long and severe campaign. Three gentlemen, Herr Gr.
0. Wittig, 0. Mutze, and S. Besser unite in untiring energy
to further the cause. The Association flourishes in every
respect, and the library is of the first order. But, alas, there
is not a single circle for manifestations of a physical nature,
and not one developed medium. They are, perhaps, in ad¬
vance of us in reading and constructing theories, but any
learned professor, with a bit of “ broken natural law ” in his
fist, smashes all intafits. A spirit like Peter, who would place
a barrel organ of heavy calibre on the head of an infallible
scientific man, and play a lively time on it, would do more
than ever so many volumes. Since I have told my friends in
Leipzig of my own experiences, they at once began forming
regular circles, and so we may hear in time something from
the literary'centre of Germany. I have often been amused
to hear of people who were too feeble to think for themselves:
“:Let us wait for what Professor Helmholtz will say to it,” and
I forgave those willingly, who look to Professors Tyndall or
Huxley for permission to believe in their own five senses. I
should not wonder if, when the battle grows more conflicting
and perplexing, a nervous inquirer might cast an anxious
glance at Bismarck or Moltke, to settle the dangerous difference!
Manchester, Aug. 31, 1874. C. Beimees.
THE CHURCH AND REINCARNATION.
Sis,—It was unfair to Kardeo’s magnificent creed, to couple
it so closely as I might seem to do, in p. 71, with the Pytha¬
gorean and Buddhist, because, as Prince Wittgenstein ob¬
serves, both Pythagoras and Buddha would appear to have
transmitted from their Hindoo teachers to their immediate
disciples, along with the doctrine of “ merit and demerit,
causing successive re-births of the soul Until it becomes per¬
fect, when it is not born again,” the sad young-world notion
of our possible re-birth as animals, which even Hindoos are
said to be now outgrowing. There is no danger of its revival,
I presume, anywhere, as the late Siamese premier’s work,
The Modern Buddhist, says, “ Those who hold the slaughter
of animals to be sinful are few compared with those who
believe that there is no harm iu it,” and “ We know not
whether they will after death have another existence or not.”
(P. 75, Alabaster’s translation.)
A more fatal inferiority of modern Buddhism, and one
perhaps inseparable from the denial of a personal God, I
suppose to lie in its extreme trust in works—the sort of
counting-house balance-sheet of merit and demerit, dwelling
on the acts of a man, rather than what he is or becomes.
Kardeo differs from this as Gospel from law; and altogether,
could his teaching be traced to spirits, it would seem to me a
sufficient answer to the cui bono question, as regards this
generation’s alleged outburst of intermundane intercourse.
As for the curious Church expression, “ resurrection of the
flesh,” it seems to have been founded on about three texts,
—Job xix. 26 (which Hebraists now deny to have referred to
anything beyond Job’s confidence that he would be raised
from his present sickness); Ezekiel xxxvii. 1, 14; and the
Saviour’s argument when “ materialised,” Luke xxiv. 39, “ For
a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.” The
phrase at least commits the Church to a doctrine of not less
than two future lives, one in the flesh and one out of it, because
Paul makes it notorious that “ Flesh and blood cannot inherit
the kingdom of God” (1 Cor. xv. 50). There are other
Church phrases, still less scriptural, and yet more curiously
reincarnationist. A hymn I remember to have often heard in
church, wherein each singer actually accuses himself of causing
Christ’s crucifixion! “ Whom my sins crucified.” The line
used to revolt me, but is justifiable on Kardeo’s theory, and in
no other way that I can see. If we all lived and sinned in
sundry lives of old, then it is quite tenable that all our sins, and
mine, contributed to cause that event. The constant Church
dogma, moreover—seemingly a fair inference from many
places in St. Paul—that Christ is “ the Saviour of all men ”
past or future, and without His death no child of Adam could
have escaped ruin, ceases to be a paradox, if we once admit,
with Kardeo and Genesis, that, before Noah’s flood, ‘‘the
heavens and the earth were finished and all the host of
them,” including, therefore, every soul of man or child now
incarnate. On that view, it is quite credible that, however
triumphant the ancient lives, say of Abraham or Socrates, yet
in their necessary encounters of new kinds of trial, in more
complex social states, down to all the intricacy and bewilder¬
ment of ages like the present, not a soul of them would be
saved but for the mission and sacrifice of Christ.
At the risk of exceeding the space you prescribe to letters
not communicating new facts, I would add that the Biblical
case for the Kardeo doctrine is temporarily weakened, I think,
by the “ spirit guides ” of Miss Blackwell (its only present
English advocate) who seem very far from doing it justice, as
one example will show. Having insisted, of course, on Christ’s
repeated assertions that His friend John the Baptist was Elias
reincarnate, according toMalachi’s prediction—a fact unknown
to John himself in the flesh (John i. 21)—Miss Blackwell, or
her guides, coming to comment on that notable seance, the
Transfiguration, find a supposed difficulty, to obviate which
her guides have assured her that the figure called ‘‘ Elias,”
conversing with Christ on that occasion, was, another spirit
representing that prophet! Now this personation was all to
meet a difficulty that never existed, as Miss Blackwell might
have shown her guides, in the same chapter with either of the
two narratives of the Transfiguration, and within very few
verses of it, that John was not at that time alive—see
Matt. xvii. 12, and Luke ix. 9. The reincarnate Elias had
lately been beheaded, so that there was nothing against his
spirit resuming on “ the holy mount ” his ancient form and
personal memory. E. L. Gabbett,
7, Mornington-road, N.W., Aug. 24.
SPIRITUALISM IE AUSTRALIA.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, editor of The Progressive Spirit¬
ualist, Melbourne, recently visited Sydney and gives the follow¬
ing account of the position of Spiritualism in that country :—
Some of the readers of the Progressive Spiritualist have
probably felt more or less interest in my visit to Sydney, and
for their benefit more especially I will give a brief narrative of
it. They are already aware that I was invited to visit Sydney
and deliver a course of lectures on Spiritualism and Free-
thought. “ The Committee of Inquirers ” consisted of the
following gentlemen:—the Hon. J. Bowie Wilson, and Messrs.
E. Greville, M.P., W. M‘Donnell, H. Gale, W. Blackman,
H. Gilchrist, C. Pearce, J. Bennett, M. H. Long, F. Sinclair,
0. H. Livingston, J. Powell, A. De Lissa, and W. Johnston.
Spiritualism, Unitarianism, Judaism, and Secularism were
represented on the committee. The majority of these gentle¬
men were not Spiritualists, but they were desirous, for their
own sake and that of others, that the subject should be
ventilated, and its claims placed before the public; and hence
their invitation.
I left Melbourne on the 19th of May, in the steamer Went¬
worth, and happened to have the same berth which Mr. Foster
occupied a fortnight before. We had a fair wind the first night
and part of the next day, and got along well; but towards the
evening of the 20th a heavy gale arose, which continued most
t>f the night. Having rounded Cape Howe the wind moderated,
the sea went down, and we had a pleasant run the rest of the
voyage. Spiritualism cropped up several times, and on the
21st we discussed it and our dinner very heartily together.
Captain Paddle was opposed to it; but evidently had very im¬
perfect and erroneous views respecting it. Two or three of
the passengers, however, had seen sufficient to convince them
there is something in it, and several others evinced a desire to
know more about it. We arrived in Sydney about one o’clock
in the morning of the 22nd—too late to go ashore. Mr. Gale
came on board shortly after daylight, and gave me a hearty
welcome. He has been a Spiritualist several years, and is
very enthusiastic in his desire and efforts for its propagation.
It was he who first wrote to me . on the, subject of a visit to
Sydney, and since a committee has been formed he has been
their correspondent, so that we hardly seemed strangers to
each other. Presently another member of the committee, Mr.
Pearce, came down to meet and welcome me. I was informed
that the committee had provided me quarters at the
Rev. Dr. Stanley’s, Paddington, . whither Mr. Gale
accompanied me. I confess I felt rather taken aback when
I learnt that I should be in such close relationship to the
clerical order, though one of its representatives, for a month;
but on ascertaining that Dr. Stanley was a liberal Unitarian,
the unpleasant possibilities that began to loom up before me
in a great measure disappeared. On reaching Paddington
I soon felt that I should be at home. Dr. Stanley was the
only Unitarian minister in Sydney for a number of years.
Since he retired from the public ministry he has had a private
boarding-school of a superior character. There was a division
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 11, 1874.
among the Unitarians some time ago, since which time he and
two laymen have in turn conducted a Sunday service for one
section of the Church. He is a man of great culture and
attainments, holds advanced views on theological and religious
questions, and has lately become interested in Spiritualism;
and I need only add that there was nothing wanting on the
part of Mrs. Stanley and himself to make my stay with them
as agreeable as possible.
On landing, I found that I was advertised to deliver my first
lecture that evening, and accordingly I opened the campaign
in the Odd Fellows’ Hall, Elizabeth-street. The Hon. J. Bowie
Wilson was announced to preside at the first meeting. He is
an old and tried Spiritualist, having become one through what
he witnessed in America in the early days of the movement.
As a matter of course he has incurred a good deal of ridicule
and opposition by his adhesion to such an unpopular thing as
Spiritualism; but he has stood true to his principles, and
now feels in some measure rewarded by the progress they are.
making among all classes of society. There was a numerous
and very intelligent and attentive audience present.
The other week-night meetings were held in the Temperance
Hall, Pitt-street. I need not enter into particulars respecting
each meeting. Suffice it to say, they were all well attended.
In addition to the week-night lectures in Sydney, I delivered
two in the School of Arts, Balmain—a pretty suburb—and
one in the Town-hall, Newtown—another suburb. Dr. Tucker
occupied the chair at the latter place. The meetings were
encouraging. I also lectured in the School of Arts, Paramatta,
fifteen miles from Sydney. Mr. H. Gilchrist presided. Para-
matta is a quiet little town, one of the oldest in the colony,
and reminds one very much of the old country. Messrs. Gil¬
christ and Pearce accompanied me thither. We had a delight¬
ful trip to it by the river, and returned by train. There are
several other inland towns in which I was anxious to break
the ice, but my stay in the colony was too short to admit of
my doing so. -
Our four Sunday night meetings were highly successful, as
regards the attendance and the interest manifested. The two
first were held in the Temperance Hall, which was kindly lent
to us by the committee of the Unitarian Church.
Two of the Sunday meetings were held in the Victoria
Theatre. Mr. J. Bennett, the lessee, very generously placed
the theatre at the service of the committee for Sunday even¬
ing and Saturday afternoon meetings. The experiment of a
Saturday afternoon lecture was not tried, but the Sunday
meetings were a glorious success. The first lecture was on
the “ Devil,” when about 2,500 were crammed into the build¬
ing, and hundreds went away unable to obtain admission.
Every foot of standing room was occupied, and a good many
stood behind the scenes on the stage. .
I need hardly say that the pious folks of Sydney, and espe¬
cially the clergy, were seriously exercised by the success that
attended my meetings. Several of the latter warned their
hearers against Spiritualism a “ latter day delusion,” and in
the spirit of true orthodox charity denounced me as an
“ infidel,” a “ blasphemer,” “ an emissary of the Devil,” and
I know not what. Of course such things were not new to me.
They only furnished another illustration of the pernicious
fruits of the popular religion. The man who dares to think
for himself, and to publicly enunciate principles opposed to
the orthodox creeds and dogmas, however conscientious his
views and honourable his conduct may be, must be denounced
and slandered in foul terms by those canting pharisees, who
claim to have the only commission, patented in heaven, to
show the people the way to heaven! The Eev. A. W. Webb
was the first to announce a lecture against the movement,
under the title of “ Spiritualism Weighed in the Balances,
&c.” As I could not attend the lecture, and no report of it
was published, I did not ascertain its character.
During my stay in Sydney I had an opportunity of testing
the powers of “ abnormal sight,” alleged to be possessed by
Master Alfred Bone. The case has been the subject of
considerable correspondence in the Sydney papers. He
certainly read words and described objects correctly, both
with a wool padding and bandage over his eyes, and when
his eyelids were tightly held down by the fingers. I intended
trying him again before I left Sydney, but my engagement
did not allow of my doing so. From what I saw, however,
I had reason to believe that the boy does possess the power
which is claimed for him. I have not space to detail what
he did when I was present. The case is an interesting one,
and deserves further investigation by competent and unpre¬
judiced men. His father, fully believing in his son’s genuine¬
ness, very naturally feels hurt at the imputations of imposture
which certain persons have not scrupled to throw out; but
time will vindicate the truth.
I must not omit to state that Mr. Foster stayed a night in
Sydney, on his way to California, and gave two very success¬
ful seances. Eleven gentlemen attended the first, and about
twenty the second sitting, all of whom, I learnt, were deeply
impressed by what they saw and heard. Some capital tests
were given, and those who received them naturally felt a
greater interest in my lectures than they would otherwise
have done. It is much to be regretted that Mr. Foster did
not make a longer stay. He would have done far more- for
Spiritualism by the proofs he could give than any number of
lectures could do.
I have said nothing of Sydney as a place. Its harbour is
one of the finest in the world, and is justly the pride of the
Sydney people. The city reminded me more of an English
town than any place I have visited in the colonies. Many of
the views around it are charming in the extreme. I spent a
pleasant night with Mr. Greville at Cook’s Biver, and almost
fancied myself in the old country in going along the road.
I cannot speak of my ride to the South Head, Botany Bay,
and other places, which I so much enjoyed. All the friends
treated me with great consideration and kindness, and strove
to make my visit pleasant to myself, as well as useful to the
cause of Spiritualism and Freethought. The social gathering
which the committee had arranged to meet me on the Tuesday
evening before I left was a most enjoyable affair. I learned
with pleasure that several circles were formed while I was in
Sydney to investigate Spiritualism, which, if conducted with
wisdom and perseverance, will no doubt obtain satisfactory
results.
I left Sydney in the Rangatira on the 18th. Several of the
committee and other friends came down to see me off.
After a fair passage we arrived in Hobson’s Bay on the 21st,
and I found myself announced to lecture the same evening in
my old place—the Polytechnic Hall.
Seyerax articles are standing over for want of room;
contributors are requested to kindly make them short and to
the point, as that plan may save weeks of delay in
publication.
Spirituaxism in' Newcastle. — In consequence of
pressure upon space this week, the description of the seances
we had with Newcastle materialisation mediums, is postponed
till next week. Much general information will be given as to
the nature of these phenomena, the result of our having
attended some one or two hundred materialisation seances
with the best mediums in this country.
A Goon Example.—Mr. F. Everitt, one of the most
active Spiritualists at Bishop Auckland, having recently
greatly enlarged his business premises in the main street of
that town, conjointly with Mrs. Everitt invited many friends
to meet him in his new premises one day last week, and there
were great festivities, with no wine or other ardent liquor,
against all of which Mr. Everitt resolutely sets his face. But
the chief incident of the meeting was that he invited about
thirty old people from the workhouse, to come and make
merry with the rest of his friends on the occasion, and in
returning thanks for a speech made in his honour, he in
effect expressed the hope that the precedent set would never
be allowed to die out, but that something would be done
annually to entertain the poor and helpless of Bishop Auck¬
land henceforth for ever.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Mr. Algernon Joy writes—“ The turn you have given in your
report, to what I said in seconding the vote of thanks for Mr.
Harper’s paper at the Crystal Palace, conveys an idea of
damning with faint praise, which was not in my mind. What I
meant to say was, that there seemed to me to be a great deal that
was very valuable in the paper, though its rather grandiloquent
style might make it difficult foT some people to catch the author’s
meaning sometimes.”
INSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calamities.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person a (theoretically) remote contingency, hut it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of the
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
OB TO
MR. THOMAS ELY TON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW
LONDON, E.
Sept. 11, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the OREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover-square, two doors from Regent-street.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, "W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rcss-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, Colville-road, Kensingston-
park, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Eeningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terraoe, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Robert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, Jfi.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-hill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S., 14, Burnley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c.; 17, Trafalgar-road,[OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-viUa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. 0., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morel!, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder's-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &o., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres-
pondencei)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Lonis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden,
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq.; 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., -Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
0. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. 0. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 85, Leipsic.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
R. W. O. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush-
W. Please write.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
-LtJL RUBBER. AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Reoister your Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. JACKSON’S Table THote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do ? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits *,
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM a neutral stand-point.
A Resume of Evidence—pro and con.
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
In&LE & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
TO SPIRITUALISTS LIVING NEAR REDHILL.
A married couple wish to enlarge their circle, and would be glad to,
meet with Spiritualists resident in their neighbourhood, of congenial mind,
and desirous of uniting for regular intercourse with friends in the other
life. References expected and given, H. A. A., Post Office, Redhill
Surrey.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tybrman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne
and all Australian Booksellers.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycbologiques,
JL\j fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de IJlle, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
S.ept. 11, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as.follows:—
“ H.Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., (j. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. It. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Gr. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Byte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Btillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.: Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. -Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingfr om
articles of furniture, the floor and walls oi the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the tou'cbp—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies fake place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person,
j 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
■paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and. that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
pajms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell ns out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower' mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
AN appeal to spiritualists and friends.
THE Spiritualists of Sower by Bridge have, up to the
present time, held their meetings in a cottage at Causewayi Head.
This has now been found inadequate, and in order to carry out more pro¬
gressive principles, a new Lyceum has been built to seat about 300 persons in
Hollin’s-lane Sowerby-bridge, along with eight dwellings which are
intended to endow the Lyceum at some future time, when they can be
freed from Mortgage. The Building when complete, will cost above £1,500
of which £1,000 has been obtained on mortgage at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum, which leaves a debt of over £400. An Appeal to the friends
of Spiritualism is proposed. It is desired that 300 friends will kindly give
£1 each; the remainder will probably be raised at home. Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappan has kindly consented to open the New Hall, and she heads the
list with a donation of £5. Several friends in the out-district have already
promised £1 each. The Bradford friends are arranging for a benefit of
two Orations to be given by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, some time in the
month of August.
This is earnestly put before the friends of the movement, as it is impossi¬
ble to borrow money on a School, or Lyceum, owing to the actions of the
School Board. And as this is the first building in the kingdom of Great
Britain, belonging solely to Spiritualism, and as the money will shortly be
due to the various contractors, it is hoped that those who can do something
for the cause will do so. The projectors are all working men, and this is
one of the boldest attempts to carry out the true religion or science of
Spiritualism. It is intended to open the new Lyceum on Sunday,
August 2nd, 1874.
To those who are not in a position to give the amount, smaller sums may
be sent, and to those who cannot give money, tracts, books, spiritual
periodicals, and back numbers of the London Spiritual papers will be thank¬
fully received. As a library is connected with the Institution, those who
ean help with books will do good in many ways. The friends are thankful
1 or the support and encouragement that have already been given, and
kindly solicit further favour and support.
Donations for this great object can be forwarded to the Secretary,
Henry Lord, Union street. Beech,
July 14th. ' Sowerby-bridge, Yorkshire
List, already promised.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan...
Twelve other friends £1 each
A Friend at Oldham
A Ditto at Manchester
H. J.L. ... ... - —
National Association of Spiritualists, London
John Lamont, Liverpool : ...
E. Broadbent   
J. G.    
Three Friends 
J. Milner
J. C. andJ. S 
Wm. Jackson  
E Holt ...  
Benjamin Swaine, 3rd Donation
A Bath Friend...
Two Spiritualists 
Proceeds from Mr. Tappan’s Oration
s.
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
12
0
7
2 0
1 0
1 0
10
4
5 10
£61 5 6
A parcel of 8 Books and Tracts from James Raistrick, Leeds.
Mr. James Burns has kindly given his services on Sunday, August 9th,
1874, for the benefit of the new Lyceum.
P.S.—The amounts and other gifts wiU be acknowledged in the London
Spiritualist periodicals.  
REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
AN EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota).
London: E. "W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIYE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the ’Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holbom, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
