A F^ECO^D Of THE PROQREfg “Of THE ^CIEjMCE JkND ETHIC3 OF gPI^JTU/iRI^M.
No. 13.—Yol. I. LONDON : THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1870.
THE ACTION OF SHELLS AND MINERALS UPON
CLAIRYOTANT SENSITIVES.
In the first number of this journal 'will he found a
report of a public lecture delivered by Mr. John Jones,
of Enmore-park, South Norwood, in which, he inci¬
dentally narrated some experiments made by him as to
the action of shells and minerals upon clairvoyant sen¬
sitives. On application, Mr. Jones has kindly furnished
us with details relating to these interesting researches,
which extended over a period of three or four years.
Some years ago Mr. Jones chanced to go to a mes¬
meric lecture or entertainment at one of our literary
institutions. Some interesting clairvoyant experiments
were performed, and Mr. Jones was chosen by the
audience to go on to the platform to test them, and
when there, was invited by the lecturer to tie a hand¬
kerchief over the eyes of the sensitive—a young
man—and then to fully and fairly test his clair¬
voyant powers. Mr. Jones blindfolded the clair¬
voyant with a handkerchief, then placed a hook,
which he had purchased that day at Comhill, at an
opened page, upon the forehead of the sensitive, and
found that he could read its contents. This awakened
in the mind of Mr. Jones an intense interest in
the subject, and he at once began to make experi¬
ments at home with different sensitives, some of
whom he paid to attend, whilst others were private
friends.
One day one of these sensitives chanced to take up a
shell which was in the room, and she at once said,
“ Oh, what pain is shooting up my arm from holding
this shell!” Thinking that it was fancy, he tested the
sensitive with several shells in succession, discovered
that the sensations were real, and that different shells
produced different effects, consequently he at once set
to work, and began to make a long series of experi¬
ments with shells, stones, woods, and metals. The
result wag.'that he perceived a principle running through
the phenomena so far as shells were concerned, namely,
that “ the shell, in its action upon the sensitive, partook
of the nature of the fish which once inhabited it,
whether poisonous or not, in relation to human beings.”
The shell of a poisonous fish, always caused pain to any
of his. ‘sensitives who held it in the hand. The follow¬
ing is | one of the experiments narrated to us by Mr.
Jones
“ In the effort to get at the truth, I went to two conchologists,
.and bought a number of foreign shells. On my return home,
I darkened one of my rooms, put a sensitive in the room, and
. having ascertained that when the door was closed the room
‘was everywhere pitch dark, I went out and brought in a num¬
ber of shells wrapped in paper. I then, in the dark, put these
shells One by one upon the lid of the piano, and as each was
put down, the clairvoyant exclaimed, ‘ That’s pink ! that’s
blue ! that’s green !’ and so on. To me the room was dark—
pitch dark. To her the room was so'illuminated by the light
from the shells, that I was perfectly visible to her. She said
that the coloured light from the shells rose to a certain height
like a lambent flame, and above the flames were light smoky
clouds, some of which reached nearly to the ceiling. The
flames and the clouds were disturbed by currents of air. To
test the accuracy of the sensitive, I took slips of paper, and
as she stated the colour of each shell, I wrote it down in the
dark, and placed the strip of paper under the shell.* When
this had been done with all the shells, I opened the window to
let in light, and found that each shell had externally the same
colour as that which I had written upon its slip of paper. To
me this was actual proof that the sensitive had seen the shells,
and that her statements were true. While the shells were
being displayed in the darkened room, she frequently ex¬
claimed, ‘ Oh.! how beautiful! ’ ”
In these and the subsequent shell experiments, the
clairvoyants were not in the “ trance-state,” hut in
their normal state, and in a dark room. In pursuing
the experiments relating to the colours of shells as
seen by clairvoyants, Mr. Jones discovered a phenomenon
analagous to the “ persistence of vision ” incidental to
ordinary eyesight. When the shells were brought very
rapidly, one after the other, before the clairvoyant, con¬
fused descriptions of colour were the result; and a delay
of a minute or more between the presentation of each
shell was found to be necessary to ensure accuracy.
Mr. Jones found that when the aura from a poisonous
shell, was blown in the direction of the sensitive by a
draught of ’ air, painful results followed. When the
shell was held in the hand, the effects were more
* The minute derails of this experiment are not quite the same as those
which we printed in the report of the lecture, though in substance there is
no difference. The reason is, that at the_ lecture the magic lantern was used,
so that fragmentary notes only were taken in the partial darkness, and the
rest had to be filled in from memory.—Ed.
powerful; the palms of the ffands and the soles of the
feet seemed to he most sensitive to these influences.
One day he placed one of the purchased shells in the
hand of the sensitive, and after holding it about half a
minute, she fell back insensible, and remained in that
state for three days. Her teeth were clenched, no food
would pass her lips, and it was only by the aid of mes¬
meric passes, that her jaws could be slightly opened to
get liquid down. The hand and arm which had held
the shell were discoloured, and the arm was livid up
to the shoulder. The arm was gradually restored to its
natural state by mesmeric passes. The serious result
of this experiment, and the general knowledge gained
from the others, led Mr. Jones to conclude that as sensi¬
tives are more numerous in society than is generally
known, families should be very careful what shells and
other substances once connected with living organisms
are kept at home as ornaments, or for other purposes, for
these things to some extent affect delicate people who
can hardly be called sensitives. Strong healthy men
and women may not feel such influences.; but some
sensitives in society, often feel bad effects from an east
wind, whilst others do not.
While pursuing these experiments with shells, Mr.
Jones discovered that wood and stones also had an in¬
fluence upon his sensitives. He found that some stones
held by his clairvoyants would wake them up ; others
would put them to sleep ; some stones had the power
of reducing inflammation, and of alleviating or remov¬
ing certain diseases, but in such cases their action is
probably not very perceptible, except upon people
sensitive to psychological influences—such persons, in
short, as make good mediums. Mr. Jones thus describes
his plan of action with regard to stones :—
“ After finding out that certain stones had these powers,
and like all other things in nature were surrounded by an aura
visible to the clairvoyant eye, without the aid of a darkened
room, as when in the normal state; my plan was by a
stone to put the sensitive into a clairvoyant sleep, and then to
ask her to find a stone good for relieving or healing a par¬
ticular disease when held in the hand, or for waking up or
putting to sleep clairvoyants, as the case might be. The sen¬
sitive would then, by her talk 'appear to be travelling in the
surrounding neighbourhood, and searching for the desired
object until it was found. Sometimes she travelled great dis¬
tances ; but then I told her to stop, as I wanted to test every¬
thing, pnd to obtain practical results. She would then see and
describe stones within a radius of a few miles round the house,
and my plan was to take her, in her abnormal trance state, in
a cab, and get her to point out the road to the spot, while I
directed the driver. From first to last, all through these
journeys, the eyes of the clairvoyant were closed as usual.
One night I was out with one of my sensitives, on an expedi¬
tion of this nature, and after finding the stone which had pre¬
viously been described to me at home, we began to walk towards
home, the cab driving slowly along in front of us, and I was
conversing with the clairvoyant, who was in the trance state
as usual. Suddenly, with a start and shiver, she awoke, and
was amazed and agitated to find herself in the open air, walk¬
ing along a dark road.* She was told that it was one of
the usual journeys. I gave her one of the stones to hold,
which always sent her and my other sensitives into the
clairvoyant state very rapidly, and she was soon in that condi¬
tion once more. Then I said, ‘ What made you wake up sud¬
denly just now ? ’ She replied, ‘ It was that stone I trod
upon.’ She then walked back, pointed it out to me with her
finger, but would not touch it. I could barely see the stone,
it was so dark; but I picked it up, and always carried it in my
waistcoat pocket for a year or two afterwards, to wake up
sensitives, and it never failed with any of them. Other in¬
stances of a similar kind, as interesting, or perhaps more in¬
teresting, I had in the course of my searches after stones. We
often had to go through lanes, sometimes over hedges and
ditches, and the clairvoyant, with the eyes closed, would walk
with greater ease and certainty than I could along awkward
ridges and the edges of ditches. By these means I obtained a
number of stones, said to be useful in alleviating or curing
various diseases. I tried several, and found them to act effi¬
ciently. With one, which I had been told was good for in¬
flammation, I removed in a few minutes all the pain and dis¬
colouration from my own foot, after it had once been acciden¬
tally scalded with boiling water.”
Mr. Jones says tliat an aura is emanated by stones,
and all created things, just as perfume is thrown off by
* One evening we travelled by rail with two friends, a lady and gentle¬
man, to the Victoria Station of the London, Chatham, .and Dover Bailway.
The lady was a medium, and there being no strangers in the compartment,
she went into the trance state shortly after the train passed through Brixton.
A very lively spirit communicated, and said that another spirit, an elderly
gentleman, was also in the carriage. On being asked whether she could see
material as easily as spiritual things while controlling the medium, she then
pointed out of the window and said, “Oh yes, I can see those windows, and
the lights dancing on the water.” The train was then close to the Thames.
On leaving the train at Victoria, the spirit said, “The people will think my
medium is blind, walking along with her eyes shut.” She pioneered the
medium through the vehicles and passengers in the station yard, and down
into a railway carriage at the Victoria Station of the Metropolitan Bailway.
Soon afterwards the medium woke up, very considerably startled to find
herself travelling on the Underground Bailway.—Ed.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
a flower ; be also thinks that when medicines are used,
it is not so much the substance itself which produces
the observed effects as the aura which surrounds it.
From first to last he tried experiments with about
twenty different sensitives, male and female. Baron
Beichenbach was trying experiments of an analagous
nature with sensitives, at the same time, unknown to
him, and when his results were published, Mr. Jones
was very pleased to find that many of the results he
had obtained were independently confirmed. On one
occasion he had two clairvoyants in the trance state at
the same time, examining and searching for stones; and
he states that it was most interesting to hear them chat¬
ting to each other, and criticising or admiring the objects
which they saw in their spiritual travels. Some few
weeks ago he read Mr. William Denton’s book on The
Soul of Things, but he states that only on one occasion
had he witnessed anything of the same nature, as the
clairvoyant faculties of his sensitives had not been
exercised by him in that direction. This is his narra¬
tive of the incident in question : —
“ One day I went to the shop of a dealer in mineralogical
specimens, who offered to sell me a crystal, which he said ‘ had
been used by people to- see things in it;’ he stated that it
had been brought from Scotland, and added some further par¬
ticulars. I bought it, took it home, and the same evening put
a sensitive to sleep, and said, ‘ Can you tell me the history of
this crystal V She said, ‘ Yes,’ and went on telling a tale
which agreed with the statements made by the mineralogist,
but she went further, and said, ‘ The stone came from India.
It was once used by an Indian doctor. I see him now. When
patients visited him, he used to retire to an inner room, put
himself into the clairvoyant state, see what was the matter,
and then prescribe a remedy.’ She minutely described fiis
dress and appearance. I had no means of checking the
accuracy of all this, but the first part of her narrative agreed
with that of the man who sold the crystal.”
At last tbe experiments of Mr. Jones with, clair¬
voyants brought him into contact with the phenomena
of modern Spiritualism, after which he ceased to follow
up his researches respecting stones and shells. He
further states:—
“ While pursuing the experiments with stones and other
substances, I incidentally heard of the phenomena stated to
be produced by unseen spiritual beings, and at once perceived
that, if true, they would supply the links needful to convince
me that special providences were realities. That by means of
ethereal intelligent beings called spirits, or messengers, or
angels ; results were produced, mentally and physically, that
might by some be called fate. The subject appeared to me
of paramount importance. I, therefore, having gained know¬
ledge as to the good and the evil that might physically arise
from shells and material substances, at once directed my
thoughts toward spirit-power, I speedily obtained proof as
to its reality, and now for some fifteen years have seen almost
every known phase of the phenomena. Visible objects moved
without contact—sounds on solid substances—^premonitions
—predictions—audible voices—spirit hands seen and felt—
music heard—curing the sick—floating in the air of animate
and inanimate bodies—and so on. As throughout the various
occurrences the range of phenomena shewed an adaptation
to the mental conditions of the witnesses, a desire to descend
to their peculiar and often absurd desires as to methods of per¬
sonal convincement, I perceived the wisdom displayed. The
premonitions and admonitions given proved beyond doubt
that that we call * supernatural ’ has a living, vital, real exist¬
ence—proved how persons, families, and nations, are and have
been influenced by intelligent beings having form and sub¬
stance. As good and evil are at antipodes, there must be an
almost infinite variety of moral good and evil between an
arch-angel and arch-devil (or arch-m7 person); and as neither
are omnipotent or omnipresent, their amount of knowledge
must be varied. Further, as a buttress to the deductions from
facts, there appears to be nothing incredible in the circum¬
stance that, the spirit or life can gather to itself the substances
called ‘ aura,’ and so support an ethereal body, as we now,
from the seen substances around us in the solid, support the
human flesh-body which we are apt to call Man.”
With regard to the action of woods and metals upon
sensitives, he found that each wood had a distinct
coloured aura issuing from it; some of the woods felt
warm to the sensitive, others cold. He believes that
the aura from poisonous plants is injurious to sensi¬
tives and delicate people, but his experiments with
woods were not numerous. Metals operate upon sensi¬
tives in like manner, when held in the hand.
Wij;h reference to his experience as to the reliability
of clairvoyance, and the power possessed by mesmerised
sensitives of seeing distant places, he found that clair¬
voyants vary in clearness, just the same as different
specimens of glass. He found first-class clairvoyants-
to be as rare as mediums of Mr. Home’s stamp, and
when found, they were susceptible to the mesmeric in¬
fluence of witnesses, which influence was sometimes
98
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Seft. 15, 1870.
unhealthy, and described by them as “ dark,” and if
absorbed, dimmed their seeing powers. Good clairvoy¬
ants are like delicate instruments, which have to be
managed wisely; like thermometers, the accuracy of their
indications may be impaired by local conditions, which
sources of unreliability the experimentalist must care¬
fully remove. Mr. Jones says that he found quartz, when,
held in the hand of a clairvoyant, to wonderfully clear
their nerves and their powers of vision, and he tested this
over and over again. His usual plan of action was first
to give the sensitive a piece of quartz or a “clearing
stone” to hold in the hand; after the lapse of some
time, he substituted a sleeping stone; the influence of this
travelled up the arm, and gradually threw the sensitive
into the mesmeric sleep. Mr. Jones would then ques¬
tion him, and his or her’descriptions of distant places
Mr. Jones frequently verified by personal examination.
The common clairvoyant power of seeing distant places
is so fully established as a fact by Dr. Elliotson, F.B..S.,
in The Zoist, that those who want accumulated evi¬
dence on the point cannot do better than read that
periodical.
Such, then, are the experiments made by an intelli¬
gent private gentleman in his leisure hours, having
taste for science as well as theology. His experiments,
like a few bright flashes, give glimpses of a vast field of
research, some day to be fully explored with scientific
accuracy by those who are interested in psychological
and geological investigation. A tabulation of the dif-
erent stones, with their respective geological charac¬
teristics appended, would be interesting and valuable.
MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH MR. HOME’S
MEDIUMSHIP.
The following manifestations took place, unexpectedly
to the observers, a few weeks ago, in Fleet Churchyard,
Winchfield, Hampshire, in the presence of Mrs. E. M.
Cox, of Cox’s Hotel, Jermyn-street, S.'W’., and Stockton
House, Winchfield. A gentleman who was present
writes:—
“ The readers of The Spiritualist will, perhaps, re¬
member a series of remarkable manifestations recorded
in The Spiritual Magazine, which occurred at Stockton
House, upon the occasion of the death of Mrs. Cox’s
youngest son, little ‘ Dannie.’
“ On the 26th of July last I visited Stockton House
again, in company with Mr. D. D. Home. Towards
evening Mrs. Cox proposed that we should go and see
* Dannie’s ’ grave. It was dusk when we reached the
quiet country churchyard where we once so lovingly
laid the little coffin, but one could still distinguish
clearly any object close at hand.
“While we were examining the design upon the
marble cross at the foot of the grave, we distinctly heard
‘raps’ proceeding, apparently, from the back of the
cross. Mrs. Cox was kneeling by the side of the grave,
while ‘Jerry’ Cox and ‘Sacha’—Mr. Home’s little
boy—were standing behind Mr. Home, who had seated
himself on the ground to the left of the cross. I stood
opposite to the little group, with my hand upon the arm
of the cross, when I felt a cold breath pass over the
other hand, and at the same moment a luminous effect
was observed, against the dark background of shrubbery
in front of which I stood.
“ I turned to observe the light which those opposite
to me saw, and, in doing so, rested my head upon the
hand which was supported by the cross. The light,
however, appeared to shift its position. I felt the cold
breath now upon my forehead, where a faint phospho¬
rescent light appeared to play. One of the boys said
it looked as though a glow-worm had been rubbed upon
my forehead. The light was then seen upon the top
of the cross, in the shape of a faintly defined flame, by
everyone but myself, my head being turned away at the
moment. At the same instant, five raps were heard
upon the marble, and a communication was spelt out,
stating that upon the top of the cross where the flame
was seen a leaf had been placed by the spirit of one dear
to us all. And, lo! when I turned, there, upon the
marble beneath my eyes, where before there was nothing,
lay, gently poised, a leaf, apparently plucked from the
plants upon the grave.
“ Neither Mr. Home nor Mrs. Cox had arisen from
the ground, and the two boys were too far off to touch
the top of the cross.
“ I feel bound to state that though there is no doubt
in my mind as to the fact of the leaf having been
placed where we found it without the physical interven¬
tion of any one present, I do not accept the manifesta¬
tion as any evidence of the presence of the spirit in
whose name it claimed to have been performed. Not
only was the phraseology most unlike that employed by
the one so dear to us when alive, but the leaf ^elected
belonged to one of the few plants to which she had a
decided aversion.”
With reference to the last remark of our correspon¬
dent, it is a generally accepted fact with experienced
Spiritualists, that the physical manifestations are usually,
but not always, produced by the lower and more material
class of spirits, sometimes under the superintendence of
“the higher spirits. _ Messages from high spirits very
often have to be transmitted-through several connecting
links before they reach us, and thus become somewhat
changed in character. This is a possible explanation
of the difficulty.
Other manifestations through Mr. Home’s medium-
ship will be found upon another page, under the heading,
“ Spiritual Manifestations at South Norwood.”
MRS. GUPPY’S MEDIUMSHIP.
SKEINS MEDIUMSHIP—FLOWERS BROUGHT TO SEANCES BY SPIRITS UNDER
TEST CONDITIONS—BUTTERFLIES, STAR-FISHES, BIRDS, AND SOLID OBJECTS
BROUGHT TO CIRCLES BY SPIRITS.
The readers of Spiritualistic literature are well
acquainted with the wonderful manifestations which
take place through the mediumship of Mrs. Guppy,
late Miss Nicholl. For the last three years, however,
little has been published about the spiritual manifesta¬
tions which take place in her presence, in consequence of
the absence from England of Mr. and Mrs. Guppy,
who, during that period, have been living in. Italy.
They both returned to England a few weeks ago, and
to them we are indebted for the following par¬
ticulars.
Miss Ann Nicholl was born in London, of youthful
parents, in the year 1838. Her father and mother
both died before she was eleven months old, and her
grandfather, Mr. Nicholl, sculptor, of Grafton-street,
took charge of the little orphan, brought her up, and
educated her. Mr. Nicholl was a sculptor of con¬
siderable eminence and ability. He designed and
executed the statuary which adorns the front of St.
George’s Hall, Liverpool, the building which during
the present week is being used as the meeting place
of Section A of the British Association for the Ad¬
vancement of Science. On the retirement of Flaxman
as modeller to the King, and to Messrs. Rundell and
Budge, Mr. Flaxman recommended Mr. Nicholl as his
successor, and he held the appointment for twenty-five
years. While under the care of her grandfather, Miss
Nicholl learnt the art of sculpture, and became clfever
in the use of the hammer and chisel; she likewise
learnt eleetrotyping and photography.
Her first symptoms, of mediumship appeared at a
time when she and her friends knew nothing about
Spiritualism; and it was that particular phase of
seeing-mediumship which is very naturally often mis¬
taken by doctors and the general public for a species
of mental derangement. When she was about nine
years of age, she began to see spirits enter the room
in which she was sitting; sometimes she saw them
looking in through the windows. They appeared to
open and shut doors, or to come through the wood of
the door; sometimes they trooped into the room in
such numbers that they appeared to fill it, and to
occupy every available seat, causing her such terror
that she became nearly frantic. These ghostly visitors
were dressed both in modern and ancient costumes,
and some of them, to use her own words, were
“ very funny, old-fashioned people.” The philo¬
sophy of this early stage of seeing mediumship is
fully considered in an article printed on page sixty-
nine of this journal. In such cases there is reason
to believe that the medium is under the control of a
single spirit, who acts upon the organs of vision, and
that then what the spirit thinks the medium sees. At
the outset, such mediumship is usually disagreeable.
As shown in the article mentioned, by one plan of
action it may be utilised and turned into a blessing,
and by another, whereby the sensitive is sent to a
lunatic asylum to be subjected to horrible psychological
influences, real insanity is the necessary result.
By day and by night Miss Nicholl was troubled by
her fantastic visitors, who, however, seemed to be
friendly and good sort of people. Her grandfather,
reasoned with her and laughed at her alternately, in
the endeavour to make her free herself from the hallu¬
cination, and finally he placed her under the care of
Dr. Smedley, the superintendent of the baths at
Matlock. Neither cold water applications, nor plenty
of exercise on foot and horseback in the open air,
relieved Miss Nicholl from her visionary friends; but
while at the baths she said nothing to others about
what she saw, as she did not wish to be considered a
witch, or a lady suffering from aberration of intellect.
Although her grandfather sometimes laughed at her
visions, a circumstance occurred one night which some¬
what startled him. At the time she was seventeen
years of age, they lived at No. 1, Gloucester-crescent,
Regent’s-park, and Dr. Riding, of Euston-square, had
been selected by her grandfather as her medical atten¬
dant. One night Miss Nicholl and her brother went
to the theatre. Mr. Nicholl remained at home alone,
reading in the drawing-room. In the course of the-
evening, when all was quiet, he heard the handle of
the door move; he looked up, saw the handle turn,
and the door open just wide enough for somebody to
come in, but nobody entered; then it shut again. He
thought that it was the servant, Mary, but, at the same
time, wondered why she opened and shut the door
without coming in. Soon afterwards there was a ring
at the street-door bell; he wondered that she did not
answer it; a second and third ring followed, so he
went down and opened the street-door himself. To his
surprise he found that it was Mary who rang the bell.
She had a lobster in her hand, and she apologised to
him for making him open the door, and for having
forgotten to take the latch-key with her, when she
went out to fetch the fish. On being questioned, it
was found that she had been absent for an hour.
Mr. Nicholl, very much startled, told her that some¬
body had opened and shut the door of the drawing¬
room only a minute or two before she rang. They
then closely searched the house from garret to base¬
ment ; they found that the back door was locked, and
no living thing anywhere in the house, nor a window
open. Mr. Nicholl then felt very uncomfortable, and
expressed his intention of getting out of the house as
soon as possible. From this time he modified his tone
considerably when speaking to his granddaughter about
her visions.
Although she had been brought up in affluent cir¬
cumstances, Miss Nicholl resolved for several reasons
of a private nature, to perfect herself in photography
and painting. She therefore made an arrangement
with Mr. and Mrs. Sims, photographers, who resided at
Westbourne-grove. A strong friendship sprang up be¬
tween Mrs. Sims and Miss Nicholl; the former knew
something about Spiritualism, and so did Mr. Sims,
who, however, had a rooted repugnance to the whole
subject. When Mrs. Sims heard about the visions of
her pupil, she told her that probably she was a
medium, and that she might be able to get manifesta¬
tions by sitting at a table. She accordingly made one
of a circle which was formed, and very loud raps were
obtained : she would not believe that she had any¬
thing to do with the production of the said raps, but
found that when she left the table they ceased, and
when she returned to it, they began once more. This
first sitting took place about six years ago, and from
that hour the visions which had troubled her for so
long previously, almost ceased.
A month or two after this, Miss Nicholl attended a
dark seance at the house of Mr. Alfred R. Wallace,
F.L.S. The shutters of the room did not fit closely,
so admitted a little diffused light from the gas-lamps in
the street outside. There, for the first time, flowers
were brought into the room through her mediumship,
by the spirits, and showered upon the persons present.
They were earthly flowers, fresh, and covered with
dew. At this seance, there being some stray light in
the rqom, they were seen falling. This seance took
place on the 14th December, 1866, and Mr. Wallace,
in an account’he published about it in the Spiritual
Magazine of February, 1867, said:—“Obtaining a
light, we were all thunderstruck to see the table half
covered with flowers and fern leaves, all fresh, cold,
and damp with dew, as if they had that moment been
brought out of the night air. They were the ordinary
winter flowers, which’ are cultivated in hot houses for
table decoration, the stems apparently cut off as if for
a bouquet. They consisted of fifteen chrysanthemujns,
six variegated anemones, four tulips, five orange-
berried solanums, six ferns of two sorts, one Auricula
Sinensis with nine flowers, thirty-seven stalks in all.”
The witnesses present were Miss Nicholl; Mrs. Sims,
76J, Westbourne-grove, W.; Mr. H. T. Humphreys,
1, Clifford’s Inn, E.C.; Dr. Wilmshurst, 22, Priory-
road, Kilburn, W.; Mr. J. Marshman, 11, Gloucester-
crescent, N.W.; Mrs. Marshman; and Mr. A. R. Wal¬
lace, 9, St. Mark’s-crescent, N.W.
This is the chief feature of Mrs. Guppy’s medium-
ship—namely, that at dark seances fresh flowers, fruits,
and other things, are showered, sometimes in great
profusion upon those present, under test conditions,
the medium’s hands being held by those present, and
the room thoroughly searched beforehand., Also, as
we shall hereafter see, more strenuous conditions have
been complied with by her with much good temper.
Miss Nicholl met Mrs. M. Gregory, of Green-street,
London, who is also a medium and lady of distin¬
guished family, in’Paris, and it was found that when
these two ladies sat together for manifestations, that
darkness was not necessary; the flowers would fall
upon them in broad daylight, and sometimes whilst
walking in the open air. The flowers fell softly like
snow, and fitst became visible to the eye just as snow¬
flakes do. Although they thus fell in daylight, they
were produced in much greater quantities at dark
seances.
Shortly after her mediumship began to-attract public
attention, Miss Nicholl went to the Mesmeric In¬
firmary, and qualified herself as a lady operator. She
worked very hard at her duties in connection with the
establishment, and was highly successful in curing the
diseases of many of the lady patients. Her evenings
were usually devoted to spiritual seances, and at
this time her grandfather resided near Hampton
Court.
Some of the most remarkable manifestations wit¬
nessed in the early days of her mediumship, are on
record in the Spiritual Magazine. In the number for
June, 1867, is an account of a dark seance with Miss
Nicholl, at the house of Mrs. Macdougal Gregory,
Sept. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square. The reporter
says:—
“ The company having assembled around a table, the room
was darkened, and shortly afterwards numerous flowers fell
upon the table and floor, and on the heads, shoulders, and. in
the caps of those sitting around the table. Upon a light
being procured, these flowers were found to consist of various
exotics, all perfectly fresh and apparently covered with dew.
The flowers having been collected, the candle was extin¬
guished, and the candle and candlestick were placed in my
charge. Shortly after the candle was taken from the stick,
and disappeared, whilst violent movements of the table con¬
tinued. Soon after something heavy was suddenly deposited
on the table, and before we could inquire what it was, a
musical box commenced playing, the box being the article
which we heard placed upon the table. Miss Nicholl ex¬
claimed that it was her box, and that she had left it on her
table that afternoon at Hampton Court. . Several raps on the
table indicated that this statement was agreed to; and in
answer to, questions it was intimated in like manner that the
box had been brought from Hampton Court. As suddenly as
the box commenced its tune, and arrived amongst us, just as
suddenly did it disappear, and by raps it was intimated that
it had been reconveyed home. A heavy Bible, which was at
the far end ' of the room, was next brought instantly and
dropped on the table, this Bible having been some yards from
the nearest sitter.”
In the same number of the Spiritual Magazine is a
letter by Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., editor of the Art
Journal, who writes that a few weeks previously
Miss Nicholl came from Hampton Court to a dark
seance at his, house, 8, Essex Yillas, Kensington.
Directly she arrived, Mrs. Hall and her friend, Mrs.
Senior, took Miss Nicholl into her dressing-room, and
with her consent “ examined minutely every portion
of her dress. They found no leaves or flowers,
nothing that could in the slightest degree insinuate
deception.” Afterwards they had a seance, and, to
quote the words of Mr. Hall, “a large number (exceed¬
ing twenty) of natural flowers, cowslips, heartsease,
and violets chiefly, were suddenly thrown upon the
table round which we were seated, among them being
two somewhat large branches of apple blossom. They
were fresh as if just gathered, as were also the cow¬
slips, a flower that easily droops.”
In, the same number of the Spiritual Magazine
(June, 1867) is an article by Mr. Alfred R. Wallace,
the naturalist, and the co-worker with Darwin. In the
course of the article Mr. Wallace says:—
“My friend, Mr. Smith, who was a perfect stranger to all
the rest of the party, sat next the medium and held both her
hands, when'her chair was drawn away from under her, and
she was left standing. About a minute afterwards I heard a
slight sound, about as much as would be caused by placing a
wine-glass on the table, accompanied by a movement of the
glass chandelier overhead, and an exclamation from Miss
Nicholl. I saw something dark close in front of me, and
putting out my hand felt a chair and a lady’s dress, and on
procuring a light Miss Nicholl was found seated upon the top
of the table, with her head just touching the chandelier.
The table at which we sat was an ordinary round one, with a
centre pillar and tripod feet. Miss Nicholl is tall, stout, and
very heavy. There were ten persons sitting round the table
as closely as possible. Mr. Smith, who held Miss Nicholl’s
hands, declared that she simply slid away from him ; and the
next instant was found seated on her chair in the middle of
the table, near which there was no other unoccupied chair ;
she was seated under the glass chandelier, where there was
just room for her head, and yet this had been effected instan¬
taneously and noiselessly 1 If any sceptics read the Spiritual
Magazine, I beg of them to offer some explanation of this
phenomenon. I pledge my word for the reality of the facts.
. . . This remarkable phenomenon has now occurred to Miss
Nicholl some half dozen times, in different houses in London,
and there must be at least twenty persons of the highest
respectability who can testify to the facts.”
Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Bernard-villas, Upper
Norwood, was once at a seance with Miss Nicholl, at
the house of Mr. John Tawse, 24, Arundel-gardens,
Bayswater, and, as usual, flowers were brought.
Mr. Coleman says:—
“ There was a bright damask rose, with a profusion of green
leaves, the petals being secured by a fine wire artistically
entwined around them, as if a skilful florist had arranged it,
to prevent the leaves from falling ; two azaleas, a white
hyacinth, some maiden hair fern, &c. The stems of the
flowers appeared to have been broken, not cut off. There were
no flowers of any kind in the house previously, and Mr. Tawse
was not aware of any conservatory in the neighbourhood,
from which they could have been taken/ I jocularly sug¬
gested that Miss Nicholl had, perhaps, brought them in her
pocket, when Mrs. Tawse said she could answer for that, for
it so happened that her children had been playing with Miss
Nicholl, and had, more than once during the afternoon, filled
and emptied her pocket with their toys; and Miss Nicholl
good-naturedly at once turned out the contents of her pockets
for our complete satisfaction upon the table, and there was
not the slightest trace of a flower or a leaf to be seen, as
there must have been from the fragile azaleas, the leaves of
which fell off as we handled them.”
In an article by Mr. Coleman, published in The
Spiritual Magazine for August, 1867, accounts are
given of several seances with Miss Nicholl, and among
the witnesses present were several well-known Spiri¬
tualists. At one of the stances held at the house of
Miss Georgiana Houghton, 20, Delamere-crescent,
Paddington, the proceedings commenced with prayer,
according to Miss Houghton’s invariable custom. The
invisibles, by raps, asked for wine and a glass. These
were placed on the table, the room was darkened; the
sitters then heard the wine poured from the decanter;
a light was struck, and the glass full of wine was
found on the centre of the table, with pieces of bread
arranged round it. There had been no bread in the
room previously. Miss Houghton was then impressed
to repeat the sacramental service of the Church of
England, to divide out the bread and wine, and to
admonish Miss Nicholl that she had not yet realised
the full sacredness of her mission—that she ought not
to omit to open every seance, where she was the pre¬
siding medium, with prayer. In the same number of
The Spiritual Magazine is an account of how a live
dove was brought by the spirits at one of Miss Nicholl’s
seances; also how a very curious flower was brought,
among others, at one of the sittings. “ It appeared to
resemble a rose and camellia combined, the leaves
being of an irregular or wavy form, cut at the edges
something like a holly, as soft as velvet to the
touch. One of the leaves grew altogether out of
the calyx of the flower. It was unmistakeably a
flower of super-ordinary character. They were
then, desired to darken the room again, and in
an instant the whole of the flowers were swept away
again by the invisibles, leaving not a vestige to
be found anywhere in the room.” At another seance,
at which Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr. and Mrs. C. Pearson,
Mrs. C. Berry, Mrs. Reeves, Major F. Geffcock, Mrs.F.
Geffcock, and Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, were present, two
showers of fresh flowers came, with a very fine water-
lily among them. Mr. Coleman records another seance
at which several double hollyhocks full blown were
brought. “ I wish,” said one gentleman, “ you would
bring us a long stalk of them.” As soon as the room
was darkened again, his wish was responded to, for
two stalks about a foot-and-a-half long were thrown
upon the table. Sometimes, at Miss Nicholl’s seances,
fruits are brought in profusion.
At another seance held at a house in Marlborough-
street, at which Miss Nicholl was the medium, the
table and the dresses of the ladies were found, when
a light was struck, to be ornamented with live butter¬
flies—perhaps thirty or forty in all. They appeared
to be asleep, and were quite quiet. Mrs. C. Berry
was present at this seance. Live insects and grubs
have sometimes been found on the leaves of the
flowers produced at Mrs. Guppy’s seances; on one
occasion a caterpillar was found eating quietly a hole
in a leaf, apparently in no way discomposed by its
travels under spirit control.
On the 10th of December, 1867, Miss Nicholl was
married to Mr. S. Guppy, of London, and shortly
afterwards they went abroad, and have been living on
the Continent for the last two-and-a-half years. Mrs.
Guppy’s mediumship was a subject of much interest
to many of the more cultured residents in Naples and
Florence, in which places several seances of a remark¬
able character were held. Some marvellous manifes¬
tations through Mrs. Guppy’s mediumship have also
been witnessed in Paris.
About a year and three-quarters ago, at a dark
seance held at the house of Mrs. Puget, Paris, at
which sectnce Madame Yal d’Or, of'Paris, was present,
the latter lady said, “ It is impossible for me to believe
this kind of thing. I should like Mr. Guppy to go
away from the table, while I hold the hands of Mrs.
Guppy.” This was willingly consented to, and
showers of fresh flowers fell afterwards, just the
same as before. About the same time, at another
sitting in the house of Mrs. Puget, in Paris, Madame
Yal d’Or was present, and said, “If I could only see
something in the light, I should be satisfied.” Mrs.
Guppy remarked that “ tests of these kinds usually
happen at unexpected times, and not when most
desired.” She had scarcely finished speaking, when,
in the full light of four candles, a chair glided along
the floor of the saloon, a distance of four or five yards,
and stopped close to Madame Yal d’Or. Madame,
who was very much startled, raised the chair, and
examined it for strings or machinery. She found
none, and put the chair down again, when it at once
glided back to its former place.
In Naples some very good seances took place at the
palace of the celebrated Duchess d’Arpino. One
evening the Princess L’Aquila and the Countess Cas-
tellana were also present. The Countess Castellana
said she could not believe in the manifestations unless
she were certain that Mrs. Guppy had nothing con¬
cealed about her. Mrs. Guppy insisted on taking off
her own clothes and putting on a dressing-gown of
the Duchess’s. This she did in the presence of the
Duchess, Countess, and Princess, who themselves
robed her in the dressing-gown, and then threw a
shawl over her shoulders to keep her warm. She
then held the seance in a room she had not sat in
before, when a shower of flowers, as usual in her
seances, took place. Mr. Guppy was not present at
this seance.
On one occasion she held a sitting with Mr. Augustus
Trollope and his wife at Florence. Mr. Trollope held
Mrs. Guppy’s hands, yet his hands and arms, and those
of Mrs. Guppy, were quite buried in fresh flowers soon
after the light was extinguished.
On another occasion, Lady Augustus Paget asked
permission to be present at one of Mrs. Guppy’s seances
at Naples, and to bring a friend with her. She
brought the Countess Moltke, a relative of General
Moltke, the present commander of the Prussian army.
Mrs. Guppy was indisposed, and nothing very remark¬
able took place at the first seance. However, a few
days later they had another. Mrs. Guppy’s' hands
were held by the ladies, yet the spirits brought flowers
in profusion; the sitters were touched by invisible
hands, and noises were heard in the room, so loud
that they frightened the whole party.
At Florence, there is a society for the investigation
of Spiritual phenomena ; its members consist chiefly of
nobles, and it is called the Florence Spiritual Society.
At one of the seances held in the winter months, it was
found to be too cold to sit in the room ordinarily used
for the purpose, as there was no fire in it, so the party
adjourned to one of the private rooms of the secretary,
at the top of the house. There was a large fire in the
room, which was covered over before the seance began,
to exclude light, and all the ladies present were fur¬
nished with foot-warmers. Flowers were brought as
usual; but suddenly a noise was heard as if the chan¬
delier had fallen down, a light was struck, and a thick
block of ice, of about a square foot in size, was found
upon the table.
Some wonderful manifestations through Mrs. Guppy’s
mediumship were also witnessed at seances held with
the Princess Marguerite, at Naples. Fruit and flowers
were brought as usual; but one evening, the Printess
remarked that she should like to receive from the
spirits some specimens of the Italian cactus, a prickly
plant having the most unpleasant effects upon the hands
of those who venture to touch it. Soon after the wish
was expressed, twenty or thirty of those plants were
found upon the table. They were removed with the
tongs, because, if the spines of the plants enter the
hands, they have to be removed by means of
tweezers, and cause much irritation and pain. Sting¬
ing nettles have also been brought in like manner
at Mrs. Guppy’s seances. On another occasion, at a
seance held at the house of the Duchess d’Arpino, a
number of white flowers were brought by the spirits;
the smell of these flowers was very unpleasant, the
odour from them being so repulsive that one lady pre¬
sent vomited. Before the sitting began, there was no
trace of any smell of the kind in the room. Among
the witnesses present at this seance were the Duchess
d’Arpino, Lady Hamilton, Princess L’Aquila, Countess
Castellana, Lord Jocelyn, and Mr. Locke. The flowers,
which were brought in great quantities, were put in
the fire as quickly as possible. One evening, at
another seance, the Duchess d’Arpino expressed a wish
that the spirits would bring some sea sand. Soon after¬
wards sea-water and wet sand were splashed over
those present, and when a light was struck, some live
star-fishes were found upon the table. The sea was
not much more than a hundred yards from the house.
On one occasion Mr. H. W. Longfellow, the Ameri¬
can poet, called upon Mrs. Guppy at Naples ; he said
that he had been at many seances, but had not seen
anything entirely satisfactory, and that he should like
to have a sitting with her. His request was complied
with; he held both her hands, and while he did so
several orange-boughs were brought by unseen agency.
The poet said that he considered the manifestation to
be one of the most conclusive he had ever witnessed.
Mrs. Guppy gave several seances to the Neapolitan
Princess Royal, and received some very interesting
remembrances from the Royal Family.
Where do the flowers come from ? In the majority
of cases it is not known where they are gathered, but
in some few instances Mr. and Mrs. Guppy have evi¬
dence that they were gathered in gardens varying in
distance from the place of meeting from a few yards
to several miles. In many kinds of spiritual manifes¬
tations, distance seems to be no more impediment to
the action of the spirits than a thick copper wire to
the passage of electricity.
The present address of Mr. and Mrs. Guppy is,
181, Holloway-road, London, N.
Me. Moese’s Meditjmship.—Mr. J. J. Morse, the well-
known trance-medium, is open to receive engagements to
lecture in tfie trance state in the provinces and elsewhere,
and all communications should be addressed to him at 15,
Southampton-row, Holborn, London, W.C. While under spirit
influence, the probability is that an address would be delivered
first, and questions upon it put by persons in the audience be
answered afterwards. We have seen much of Mr. Morse's
mediumship, and think that the best conditions for good
control are that he should arrive at the place where the
lecture is to be delivered a day in advance, and on no account
sit in private for manifestations, so that he may be in full
strength when addressing the public audience. Another
favourable condition is to have nobody on the platform but
the chairman, and he seated as far as possible from the
medium, that there may be no 'conflicting influences within
a couple of yards of the entranced speaker.- His Friday
evening public seances are still held regularly at eight o’clock
at 15, Southampton-row. They are well attended, and usually
by thoughtful people. It is a wonderful thing to outsiders,
who attend two or three times to get a fair idea of the average
character of these siances, to hear the youthful speaker, who
has had little education, clearly and intelligently answer
questions put by the listeners about the conservation of energy,
the nature of matter and force, the origin of evil, life in spirit-
land, and other subjects, which occupy the attention of the
keenest philosophical intellects of the day.
100
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1870.
ECCLESIASTICAL OPINIONS OF SPIRITUALISM.
On Wednesday evening, August 31st, an address was given
by the Rev. Flavel Cook, Vicar of Liskeard, Cornwall, on
“ Spiritualism,” at the Wood-street schoolroom, Kingston-
on-Thames. There was a large attendance, and about ninety
per cent, of the listeners present were ladies.
The Rev. A. Williams, M.A., Vicar of Kingston, opened the
meeting with prayer, after which he said that they had
assembled to consider a very important subject. A minister
is bound by his ordination vows to drive away erroneous
views from his parish and people. He was sure that there
was something very contrary to Scripture going on in his
parish, and it only required investigation to show that Spiri¬
tualism was thoroughly wrong, unscriptural, and wicked.
They might ask why he did not give an address on the
subject himself, instead of leaving the work to be done by
a brother minister from Cornwall. The reason was that he
had many duties to perform, and had not had time to turn
his attention in this particular direction, but he intended
before long to go into the subject privately. He had not
yet read up the subject sufficiently to be able to give a public
address. He was, therefore,jvery pleased to have his hands
strengthened by Mr. Cook. If there were any present who
were favourably disposed towards Spiritualism, he hoped that
they would give a fair and candid hearing to what would be
said. He wanted no favour, and he was sure that all who
sincerely desired the truth, as it is in Jesus, would not miss
the way to Heaven. He trusted that when his hearers went
home, they would retail the arguments of the lecturer to
their friends, for if they each had a knot of say six listeners
on the morrow, it would much increase the influence of the
lecture. He hoped that they would use their tongues to some
effect, to retail on the morrow what they heard that night.
The Rev. F. Cook said that in the interests of truth he
must state that being at a distance from his books, stock, and
materials, he was rather at a disadvantage in delivering the
lecture, and he entered upon his work that evening with a
sense of its importance and his own responsibility to Him
who searches all hearts. Spiritualism was a subject which he
had studied for some years, and he thought that it had a
claim upon the attention of every thinking man, for it has
a very close connection with all the ordinary duties and rela¬
tionships of life, and with our duty to God and Christ. He
said that many terms, such as electricity, magnetism, biology,
clairvoyance, mesmerism, are jumbled together in a very
strange fashion in connection with Spiritualism, still there
might be a bond of union, as yet hidden, joining all these
things together—he did not know how this might be. He
had no sympathy with the common way of dealing with
Spiritualism,'that of calling it “all humbug.” He had in¬
quired into the subject, and held no such opinion himself,
and he did not think that it was right for scientific men to
throw it aside as humbug. If a man had never seen or
heard of a magnet, and was told that it would cause a piece
of iron to disobey the law of gravitation, he would say—
“ It is not true, for it is not natural,” but when he became
practically acquainted with the power of the magnet, he
would see that there was something in nature which he did
not know before. Science, however, does not recognise Spiri¬
tualism, and Spiritualism makes curious evasions when asked
to give scientific tests. Some of the things attributed to
Spiritualism are due to nervous energy; some of the phe¬
nomena are produced by impostors and humbugs, who reap
a rich harvest, others are due to self-deception ; but clearing
away all these, there remains something which is not nervous
energy, which is not imposture, and which is not self-decep¬
tion. This “ something ’’ may be called Spiritualism. Sup¬
pose a man from some out-of-the-way part of the world asked
“ What is Spiritualism ? ” Spiritualists would say that it is
a professed communication between persons in this life and
others who have departed out of this life. The enquirer, from
the backwoods of Australia might next ask, “ What is the
object of this communication? Do the spirits come unsought,
unbidden ? Do they come from the Father of all flesh ?
Are these spirits sought after? Is there a first step taken ?
Do we unbidden take a first step on our part to open commu¬
nication with them ?” The theory is not that God the Father
commissions these spirits to seek and impart to us His messages;
it is the practice to seek these departed ones, the spirits of
the dead, and to ask them for information. At this point,
then, we approach a subject where man requires higher know¬
ledge than his own; we approach a border line where the
child of earth should be governed by Him who is wiser than
he, we should then go with all reverence to the Supreme
Spirit. (“ Hear, hear,” from Mr. Churchwarden Walter.) At
this point, then, it was their duty to turn to the sacred page.
He did not say that ghosts and spirits were fictions; for
Spiritualists say that professing Christians have become so
material that they do not believe in anything beyond flesh.
For his own part he believed that the scene witnessed by Saul
and the Witch of Endor was due neither to ventriloquism nor
sleight of hand. Turning to the sacred page, they would
find the following words, in the 18th chapter of Deuteronomy,
beginning at the 9th verse :—
“When thou art come into the land which the Lord thy Q-od giveth thee,
thou shalt not learn to do after the abominations of those nations.
There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his son or
his daughter to pass through the Are, or that useth divination, or an
observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch,
Or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a
necromancer.
For all that do these things are an abomination unto the Lord; and be¬
cause of these abominations, the Lord thy God doth drive them out from
before thee.”
Again in the 20th Leviticus, verse 27th, it is written :—
“ A man also, or woman, that hath a familiar spirit, or that is a wizard’
shall surely be put to death: they shall stone them with stones; their
blood shall be upon them.”
And again, in the 28th chapter of the first book of Samuel,
verse 8, Saul says to the Witch of Endor ;—
“I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him
up whom I shall name unto thee.”
He wished to call the attention of his hearers to the word
“ familiar sjpirit,” for if the word in the original Hebrew had
been literally translated, it would have been “ bottle,” “ belly,”
or “ hollow vessel.” The theory of the Spiritualists is that
the medium is, for the time being, a hollow vessel, in which,
for a short time, the communicating spirit thinks and acts.
Therefore, Saul might have said—“ Divine to me now, I pray
thee, by the medium! ” The other quotations also might read
—“ The medium shall be put to death! ” Truly it was a
strange doctrine, that of putting people to death, it was not
his own, but the command of God. Then, again, if the word
translated “ necromancer,” had been literally translated from
the Hebrew, it would have been “a seeker unto the dead.”
God says, in Deuteronomy, 8 there shall be none among you
who is a seeker unto the dead.” Why should God so forbid
seeking for the dead ? It is a difficult thing to explain the
ways of God, who denied improper knowledge to man. There
was in Eden a certain knowledge which God would not allow
unto man, and it is not a little remarkable that the word
printed as “ wizard,” if literally translated from the Hebrew,
means “ knowing one.” God forbids knowledge which He
does not think man, in his present state, is fit to receive.
(“ Hear, hear,” from Mr. Churchwarden Walter.) Spiritual
manifestations are the work of the devil. Spiritualism claims
to be “ progressive,”—yes, it is 1 progressive backwards,” to
heathenism and darkness. (Applause). It boasts of its power
and liberty, and how it can fling away all creeds and dogmas.
He found there was a demoniac once who had similar liberty,
and who took up his abode among the tombs until Christ
made him free. To be just, he ought to say a little on the
other side, for there are those who say that Spiritualism is
not opposed to religion, and that it has saved many who
believed in neither God nor devil; in fact, he knew one very
remarkable instance of this himself, and was willing to admit
that there might be some thousands of cases besides. But
here he wished to put his hearers, especially young persons,
upon their guard against a very slippery fallacy. This philo¬
sophy of Spiritualism he believed to be to a certain extent
true, but in the truth of it lies its falsity; although the
phenomena of Spiritualism might be true, it does not follow
that what Spiritualism teaches is true. There is a devil, yet
it does not follow that the devil speaks truth. In the Bible,
there are texts in favour of communion with good spirits, but
these were “angels,” not “dead men,” (■“ Hear, hear,” from
Mr. Churchwarden Walter), and it cannot be said that any
human being will ever become an angel, unless they went
back to the old meaning of the word “ angel,” namely, “ mes¬
senger.” Spiritualists say that spiritual communications were
made to the prophets. “ Yes, but by whom? By dead men?”
He did not find that any of the prophets ever sought the
spirits of dead men, for there was not a single prophet from
Moses to Malachi who would have dared to do such a thing,
with the curse of God hanging over him. Spiritualists say :
“The spirits teach good things.” Yes, the devils believe
God and tremble. He wished to call attention to the fact that
Spiritualism, in its own writings, acknowledges that the
spirits contradict each other in their statements about Living¬
stone’s fate, and that they contradict each other on other
subjects ; also that one of the spirits who recently lectured
through a trance-medium, taught that there is no devil,
which teaching is in direct opposition, to ,the Word of God.
The Divine record tells how in the latter days there
shall be signs and wonders which shall deceive even
the elect. (Loud applause.) He trusted, therefore, that
they would say to Spiritualism — “ Thou art a child
of darkness! Get thee behind me, Satan!” (Applause.)
“ Satan shall have power to deceive men,” says Revelations.
There are those who have been into Spiritualism, and found
out the evil of it; it is a most terrible thing for the nervous
system, and has caused several young persons to suffer life-'
long misery. “ But,” it might be said, “ spirits should be
beautiful as the stars ; why should we not be near them ?”
God knew that it was not needful for man ; and although there
are stars in the heavens, be it remembered that there are dark
spots also, even upon the sun. There is a certain fascination
about Spiritualism, which grows upon a man, very much like
a vicious indulgence in opium-eating; it also causes people to
neglect present duties, in searching after the spirits of the
dead. If Spiritualism had been needful, God would have
given it to us. The best defence of Spiritualism is, that there
are times when even coarse and carnal men long for something
beyond earth, for some closer communion with the world
above, but God has denied that satisfaction.* Jesus, it is
true, once spoke to the spirits of dead men, when he talked
with Moses and Elias, but then it was an instance of the Lord
and Master speaking to His servants. (“ Hear, hear,” from
Mr. Churchwarden Walter). It is remarkable that in Spiri¬
tualism so much is done by boys, girls, and unlettered persons ;
it is strange that there is such a suspicious lot of darkness ;
the spirits object to daylight; there is so much which can only
be done in the dark. (Applause.) Once, when a proposal
was made to lock up some things in a box, and let the spirits
get them out, the challenge was not accepted. Our Lord’s
miracles were always done in the light. St. John says that
men should “ Try the spirits,” and see whether they acknow¬
ledge the Lord Jesus. In Spiritualism there are terrible
powers of influencing others by will, and many bad men
there are who would give a thousand pounds for the power
of “bewilling” others, to get them under their control.
(Applause.) And then what a horrible thing it is, for a man
to make himself a “ hollow bottle ”—a mixture of himself and
somebody else—which is an abomination to God and degrada¬
tion to man. (Applause.) In making these remarks he sought
no popularity, and he came to the meeting, in a measure, unpre¬
pared. He urged them not to return to the abominations of
the Canaanites, for in time they would be among angels in
glory, singing praises to God and to the Lamb.
Mr. Chaeles Waltee, of Kingston, solicitor, said that
the lecture was the result of much research and thoughtful
care, brought to bear upon a subject which he and many
others had little considered. The believer is always hedged
about by the truth of God, and further he dare not go.
Spiritualism is the agency of the Devil, and he was much
struck by the calm and temperate way in which the lecturer
had spoken upon a subject which springs from the source of
all the evil plaguing the earth at the present time. The
Devil has a host of evil spirits, doing his will, and attempt¬
ing in every way to undermine the Word of God. There is
something in the Bible about the ministry of angels, but
nothing about the ministry of departed spirits, and it is
the presence of the Holy Spirit of God which alone rejoices
the heart of the believer. He was glad that they had received
such an antidote to the words of those who are propagating
the dangerous views of Spiritualism, and he trusted that
those views would be tested by the Word of God. Are not
those who teach Spiritualism doing the Devil’s work ? Are
they not sowing tares among the wheat, and leading men
away from Christ, and Revelation, and God, into infidelity ?
It was a system of delusion, and he trusted that they might
all be preserved from its influence. He had much pleasure in
moving a vote of thanks to the lecturer.
The Yen. Archdeacon Holbeeton, M. A., Vicar of Norbiton,
Surrey, said that the lecturer had dealt most fairly with his
subject; he had shown no asperity and no ill-feeling, such as
could possibly offend those who held contrary opinions. If
such opponents would only be impartial, and not put aside the
Word of God, they would go away and repent of their errors.
He sincerely desired that they might see their mistake. He
hoped that all present were holding to the Word of God, for
at the present day men are living in the midst of all sorts of
error, which must, however, be tried by God’s Word. He
would close his remarks by seconding the vote of thanks.
The Rev. A. Williams put the vote to the meeting, and de¬
clared it to be carried unanimously. He then announced that
on the following Friday-week Mr. Cook would lecture on “ The
Infidelity of the Age.” The lecture was intended for men
only, so he would be debarred the pleasure of seeing the large
attendance of ladies present that evening.
The Rev. F. Cook, in returning thanks, said that he was
glad that all which he had said had been taken in such a good
spirit, as he knew that there were some present who did not
agree with him in his opinions.
The proceedings then closed with the singing of the
Doxology. An article, replying to the assertions of the
speakers at this meeting, will be found on page 103.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS AT NORWOOD.
Me. John Jones, of Enmore-park, South Norwood, has
favoured us with the following record, written by his daughter,
Miss Alice Jones, of spiritual manifestations through Mr.
Home’s mediumship :—
“ Yesterday (3rd July, 1870), we had, at home, a very in¬
teresting seance. There were present—Mr. Home, Mr. Jencken,
Mr. Ford, Papa, Mrs. Hennings, Grandma, my sisters Emily
and Edith, and I. We had the sitting because it was the
anniversary of the ‘ passing away ’ of Mr. Home’s wife, Sacha.
Edith made a beautiful wreath of flowers, and it was placed
on the centre of the loo table we were sitting at. Papa also
had gathered a basket of evergreens and flowers from the
garden, and placed it at his feet. He sat opposite Mr. Home.
“ The manifestations commenced in the usual manner—the
table vibrating, a cold current passing over the hands and feet,
and raps. Dear Sacha made herself known to us by her gentle
tapping On the table, and touching us. She then commenced
to take the flowers from the basket at Papa’s feet, and begin¬
ning with Edith, said to her by the sounds, as an evergreen was
put into her hand by the spirit: ‘ This is like my love—ever¬
lasting.’ At Edith’s request, Sacha touched her again, and
shook hands. We all had a flower given to us. To Emily was
given from under the table a fern, with the message, ‘ Take
this and plant it; ’ we found that there was a root attached to
it. Mrs. Henning had with her flower the message—* You
are dear Dan’s friend ;’ Mr. Jencken —* This is for your
darling mother;’ Grandmamma—‘For the two absent boys’
(Arthur and Rupert). I also received a flower, and felt
the spirit’s hand. Shortly after, the spirit touched Papa
on his knee; he put his hand down, and the basket, with
flower-glass inside, was suspended in the air, and placed in his
hand, with the message tapped out: * Thanks ! ’
* * Mr. Home now took Papa’s accordion by the valve end,
suspended with the keys close to the carpet. The spirit began
to play on it very beautifully ; and some one remarking that
* to-day was Sacha’s spiritual birthday,’ she replied, that she
would play the * Birth ’ for us, and certainly it was wonder¬
fully given. It seemed to represent the agitation at the period
of the separation of her spirit from the body; then the calm,
when free ; and then the joy when she recognised her spirit
friends. Next, was played, ‘ Should Auld Acquaintance be
Forgot,’ followed by ‘ Home, Sweet Home ’—the last air being
played by two spirits, as we could distinctly distinguish four
hands, and heard the air and seconds. The instrument was
then placed on the floor, where it played—no one touching.
“ There was a very singular phenomenon with the wreath.
After all the flowers had been given away, Mr. Home was
influenced to make two or three mesmeric passes over the
wreath on the centre of the table. Shortly after the wreath
began to move along the table, which was five feet wide; it then
passed over the back of his hands, which were resting on the
table, ascended in the air in front of him till it was on a level
with his face, which was seen through the wreath; he then
rose on his feet, the wreath continuing to ascend till it floated
over and rested on his head. The wreath then became
illuminated—first the front, then the back, then the sides,
showing up the roses, and other flowers, in full relief. The
luminosity then appeared on his face and the middle of his
body. He appeared as if he were floating off the ground, but
I could not see his feet. Grandma had a wreath of con¬
volvulus tendrils made and floated on to her head by our spirit
friends, and during the sitting it was taken off by them and
carried to the vacant chair beside Papa. When the sitting
was over, the two tendrils of the wreath were found entwined
round one of Mamma’s chains and gold medal, that Papa had
placed on the vacant chair, with our family-group photograph,
taken when we were children; thus explaining a message
previously given, which we had not understood; * It was
Mamma and Marion (my spirit mother and sister) who plaited *
it, and the boys (my spirit brothers, Edmund and Walter) tied
the knot. We are so glad to have done it for you.’ At the
wish of our spirit relatives the sitting closed. We then
saqg most heartily :—
“ ‘ Praise God from whom all 'blessings flow;
Praise Him all creatures here below.’
I have thus briefly narrated some of the phenomena we wit¬
nessed on Sabbath evening., Alice Jones.
“ Enmore-park.”
De. Newton intends to leave London in five days’ time.
He has relinquished his intention of travelling on the Conti¬
nent and in the East, and will stop a short time in Liverpool
before his departure for the United States.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—This evening, at seven
o’clock, a preliminary meeting will be held, at the house of
Mr. Thomas Blytton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E., to organise
a local Spiritual Society. All Spiritualists residing in the
neighbourhood of Dalston and Kingsland are earnestly in¬
vited to attend.
De. Newton paid a second visit to Northampton on
Sunday, September 4th, and cured several people of diseases
and infirmities of many years standing. Sir Charles Isham
wrote to one of the Northampton papers a few days before
Dr. Newton’s arrival, urging the people to give him a fair
hearing. He was very well received.
De. Newton in Maidstone. — In our last, Mr. T.
Grant, of Shirley House, Maidstone, told how Dr. Newton
treated about 180 patients at a public healing in Maidstone,
being at the rate of one to a minute. Mr. Grant and his
friends have investigated 135 cases. Of these patients seventy-
seven were not at all benefited, thirty-three received slight or
transient relief, and there were twenty-five cases in which
cures were either fully or partially effected. Nine of these
cures were printed in the last number of The Spiritualist,
with the full names and addresses of the patients. The other
sixteen successful cases will be found in The Medium of Sep¬
tember 9th.
* Has he ?—Ed.
Sept. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
CHARGES FOR ADVERTISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Salf-a-guinea per sixth of a
•column, or every portion of sixth of a column,
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a column, or
portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates willbe udisplayed” so as
to occupy the full space paid for, but advertisements at the following rates
will be in closely set type:—
3. General Advertisements, FLalf-a-crown per first five lines or portion of
five lines, and Fourpence for every line in addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling per first four
lines, or portion of four lines ; Threepence for every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or initial letters count
as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement are paid for,
twenty per cent, reduction mil be made in the above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertisement.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the Publisher, Mr.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Church-yard, London, F.C.
Ctf (fawspnfrenls.
All leters should be brief and to the point, as the amount of space avail¬
able for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by letter only, ad¬
dressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St.
Paul's Chwrch-yard, London, E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in Eng¬
land, together with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
/be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with the literary
work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will meet with careful considera¬
tion.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great freedom of ex¬
pression to all the different shades of opinion to be found among Spiri¬
tualists. There will therefore be very little uniformity in the ideas pro¬
mulgated in this journal, more especially in the correspondence columns.
Under these circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the right of reply
remains. This freedom of thought given to others, the Editor claims for
himself, and those who do not like the contents of leading articles can write
against them in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a pale weak mediocrity,
by inserting only those contributions which please everybody. The preceding
remarks are not intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them here, for none
but those letters which are considered worth publication will beinserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism should be
sent to the office several days in advance.
Co
The first eighteen numbers of The Spiritualist will be forwarded regttr
larly by penny post to subscribers, who remit six shillings in payment to Mr.
E. w. Allen, Publisher, Ave Maria-lane, fit. Paul's-churchyard, E.C.
No notice will be taken of orders received unaccompanied by a remittance.
When the day of issue chances to fall upon a Sunday, this journal will
be printed on the preceding Saturday, and published on the following
Monday.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1870.
EAITH IN THE SPIRITS.
Among Spiritualists are many who place entire faith
in the spirits, seeking their advice in all matters apper¬
taining either to this world or the next, and implicitly
following the instructions given. Others there are,
who apply their reasoning faculties to the advice given
by their invisible friends, and accept or reject it, as
their judgment dictates.
There are strong reasons tending to prove the latter
course of action to be the most reasonable. When one
mind subjects its will to another mind, either in or out
of the body, the person governed has injudiciously
sacrificed more or less of his independence and indi¬
viduality to another who has no right to accept the
preferred control. Assuming the controlling spirit to
have more wisdom than the person governed, so that
the latter is protected from making mistakes in life by
the ruling intelligence, it would be better for him that ■
he made those mistakes on his own responsibility, and
took the consequences: thereby by hard experience,
he would gain the most valuable kind of all knowledge,
so as to strengthen his own mental powers and indi¬
viduality of character, this course being far preferable
to that of living as an instrument in the hands of
another.
Although there are good spirits out of the body, as
well as in the body, who love to control others weaker
than. themselves, and who, apparently, benefit their
weaker brethren by so doing, the benefit is not real,
because the persons aided are placed under an obliga¬
tion, and those mental faculties which would enable
irthem to govern themselves aright are not developed.
Probably, no very high intelligence would accept the
absolute control of any lower intelligence, on the
ground that the former have no right whatever to
. accept such a position, or to take away any part of
that birthright of every living human being, namely,
<c individuality.” Nevertheless, this control over others
is largely exercised by great and good men connected
with the legislature, the press, the pulpit, and the plat¬
form ; they say in effect, “ My teachings are good;
follow me implicitly.” A higher intelligence still would
say, “ Follow no living man; in all things act upon
your own judgment as to what is right, preserve your
*.own individuality, and gain knowledge by personal ex¬
perience.”
Had men always acted upon these principles, the
various orders of priestcraft which now afflict the
world would never have had an existence, nor would
crafty politicians, as well as intelligent despots, have
been able to bend thousands of negative minds to serve
their selfish private interests.
If then it be false in principle, to permit the con¬
tinuous control of good and high spirits, embodied or
disembodied, how much worse must it be to be governed
by those of a lower order? There are people, more
especially religious enthusiasts, who think it a highly
creditable thing to believe the largest possible quantity
of improbabilities on the smallest possible amount of
evidence. In fact, some of these do not seek for evi¬
dence at all, but accept everything upon “authority.”
How such persons are duped by spirits in the body,
whom they can see and know something about, is a
matter of everyday observation ; how much more then
are they liable to be duped by low spirits out of the
body, who cannot ordinarily be seen ? There is more
chance of escaping from the wiles of a oily-tqngued
lawyer, if you can see the man while he gives his
advice, than there is when he has parted with body,
and does not exhibit his tell-tale features to the person
whose actions he seeks to guide.
What merit is there in placing absolute N faith ” in
external intelligences ? If a man lend five pounds to
the first stranger he meets who tells a plausible tale,
and the property be seen no more by its owner, ought
the lender to be commended for the beautiful example
he has given of “faith ?” Father let him be told that
he should use the judgment and the intellectual faculties
given to him by the Almighty, and not do unwise
things.
Probably, the best way to deal with the advice of
disembodied spirits is to receive it in exactly the same
way as the advice given by spirits in the flesh. When
the character of the adviser is fully known, and when
his friendship and truthfulness have been tested by time,
then consider the advice to be of value, and worth
weighing. In no case, however, should it be acted
upon in opposition to the judgment of the recipient.
In those cases of temporary control, so often seen in
spiritual mediumship, the medium should consider what
use his mediumship is to the world; how much good it
is doing; and whether it is equal in practical value to
other forms of the same gift. If he then see that his
mediumship is of very little use, he should refuse to
exercise it, or he should seek for a better form of the
same gift. The days are close upon us when the value
of every man, woman, and thing, will be measured by
their use, and their expense to the community as com¬
pared with their use.
FAREWELL MEETING TO DR. NEWTON.
On Tuesday evening, August 30th,'a meeting was held in
the Cambridge Hall, Newman-street, Oxford-street, to bid
farewell to Dr. Newton. Although a very short notice had
been given of the meeting, there was a very large attendance.
Mr. Luxmoore, who was unanimously voted into the chair,
said that he had been absent from England for some time,
and was glad to find on his return that Dr. Newton’s doings
were not such as had been reported in the newspapers.
Mr. Burns announced, amid loud applause, that Dr. Newton
had that morning decided to remain in London instead of
Liverpool during the few weeks he had yet to remain in Eng¬
land, therefore he would not leave town quite so soon as ex¬
pected when the meeting was convened.
Mr. T. Shorter, of The Spiritual Magazine, in moving the
first resolution, to the effect “ that this meeting expresses sym¬
pathy with Dr. Newton’s mission, and wishes him ‘ God speed ’
in his work,” said that the newspapers had done worse than
suppress facts about Dr. Newton, for they had told what,was
not true. A list of more than a hundred cases of cure by
Dr. Newton, with the full names and addresses of those re¬
lieved, had been printed ip The Spiritualist,* so that the daily
papers could have made inquiries if they wished to investi¬
gate. As those present knew how much untruth they had
told, it was a good practical lesson not to trust the news¬
papers in what they said upon other subjects.
Mr. John Jones said that he personally was a Trinitarian,
whilst Dr. Newton was hot, so on theological points, it
was clear, they were utterly at variance, but they met on
one common ground—that of being Spiritualists. A few days
before the meeting, he chanced to be at the Sportsman’s Hotel,
Carnarvon, where he read aloud out of a newspaper an article
about Dr. Newton, in order to provoke discussion. Some of
those present thought Dr. Newton a great humbug, others,
that he really possessed some healing powers ; when the
waiter came forward and stated that he had reason to speak
well of Dr. Newton, that his son, who was a cripple, had been
cured by Dr. Newton at Nottingham. Before he saw Dr.
Newton, the boy could only walk by the aid of a crutch and
stick, and was puny and sickly. The doctor cured him in a
few minutes, and he can now run about and play like other
boys. The boy was then sent for to the hotel, and his appear¬
ance confirmed the statement as to his present condition; he
said that he had had a letter from London inquiring into the
* Copies with the list marked were sent to all the daily papers in London.
reality of the cure (Mr. Allen’s circular most probably), and
that he had sent it to Nottingham for his friends there to
answer ; he did not know whether they had done so. The
speaker then said, that as a prism may be used by anybody to
analyse the constituents of white light, so might the nature of
the spiritual world be analysed at home by the aid of Spirtual-
ism. He told how a great tidal wave of civilization and
science has in past years rolled over the world from east to
west, and pointed out how a great spiritual wave now seems
to be setting in from west to east.
Dr. Newton, who addressed those present as “Well be¬
loved brothers and sisters,” said that his heart was overflowing
with love to them all; he loved them as his own children.
The “lovei principle” is “heaven,” and it might dwell in
every human soul; heaven is not a place, but a state, which
ought to be found in every human being. All may become
mediums by being gentle, kind, and loving ; the great poets
and philosophers of earth were all mediums, so also was Jesus,
which is why He was called “ the mediator,” or the medium
between God and man. He (Dr. Newton) came among them
as a little child, to teach them the same things which Jesus
did, and those who knew him could not help loving him, be¬
cause he loved every living soul. He blamed not those who
had spoken and written against him, for they had acted only
in accordance with their light and development, and could not
have acted otherwise. The good and wise Father has placed
us all on this earth for a purpose, and those who pass sluggish
lives here, without ever raising themselves to the level of a
good and true man or woman, must of necessity enter into
suffering in the spirit life. They could never have even a kind
thought towards a fellow mortal, without that thought bring¬
ing its reward. It was well for his work that the newspapers
had spoken ill of him, otherwise his arrival in this country
would have been known only to a few Spiritualists, and he
could not have made himself so useful. Much was said in
America about the mobs of London, but he came here, to this
great metropolis, in perfect love; perfect love casteth out all
fear, and all his work had been done in the spirit of love and
truth. Our Brother said, before he departed, “ I will send you
the Comforter,” and the Comforter had come twenty-two
years ago, in the form of modern spiritual manifestations;
these revelations are little by little unfolding the great love
principle in every human heart, for it would not be fitting
that a deluge should come all at .once. They should not wor¬
ship “ the Bible in leather,” but worship in spirit and in truth;
worship principles, not men, and the greatest of all principles
is “love.” He loved all who came to him, every poor sick
child, no matter how covered with the rags and tatters, and
dirt; beneath all was a beautiful human soul, and if he
sent those little ones away to wash themselves before
relieving them, he should need washing himself. (Applause.)
Since he had been in London he had never asked a fee, even
of those who called upon him at his own home ; and, in the
latter case, in some instances when a fee was offered, his spirits
impressed him not to accept the same. As to his religious
convictions, he was a “practical Christian;” that was all the
religious profession he had ever made; and, as Jesus said,
“ By their fruits ye shall know them.’’ If the fruits were
good, who should condemn him ? All who breathe forth the
love principle in their daily life, whether they be pagans, or
heathens, or Jews, or Gentiles, are practical Christians; no
matter where good comes from—even from Hades. (Applause.)
A bad tree cannot produce good fruit. He closed by saying,
“ May God and the angels bless you for ever.”
Mr. Burns, in the course of some remarks, said that
ordinary doctors try to act upon the physical body, whereas
Dr. Newton acts upon the forces which govern that body.
When men know more of these things, they will find out that
they are their own physicians, and their own medicine-chests;
they only want to know how to use this simple power.
The proceedings then closed. They had been enlivened at
intervals by some excellent music and singing by Mr. and
Mrs. Hicks.
Of late, the tide of public opinion has been turning strongly
in favour of Dr. Newton. Although he fails in, perhaps, four
cases out of five, he has cured several thousands of people
since he has been in England. The result is, that the people
in very many localities have found out that the newspapers
have deceived them ; consequently, he has all along had very
numerous invitations to visit provincial towns, and every
Sunday he has visited such of the places as chanced to be
within a reasonable distance of London. The rumours of his
approaching departure have caused his house, 34, Upper Park-
road, Haverstock-hill, to be thronged with patients.
Winter Lectures 5n Spiritualism.—During the coming
winter an organised system of public lecturing on Spiritual¬
ism will be established in London by some of the early workers
in the movement. The intention is, so we are informed, to
form three committees, the first one consisting of lecturers,
the second of gentlemen more or less connected with literary
pursuits, who will keep the subject well before the public in
the newspapers ; the third will be a “details” committee, to
look after the business matters connected with the work. It
is proposed that, if possible, two lectures per week shall be
given in one or other of the London postal districts, and that
questions of a sectarian theological character shall be avoided
by the speakers, who will keep to the subject of “ evidence of
life after physical death.” Mr. John Jones, of Enmore-park,
South Norwood, is aiding in the work, and he will be glad to
hear from those who wish to co-operate, or who will furnish
particulars as to the rent and accommodation of public halls
in their respective localities, together with other useful infor¬
mation about their several districts.
Spiritual Periodicals.—A religious periodical called
the Spiritual Magazine was published in London from the year
1825 to 1852. A book on doctrinal subjects, called the Spiri¬
tual Magazine was also published in London in 1752. The
present Spiritual Magazine, a very good journal, which has
fought some hard battles on behalf of Spiritualism, began its
career in 1860. A periodical called the Spiritual Messenger,
was published in London in the interests of Spiritualism, to¬
wards the close of 1858, but it died after five numbers had been
issued. The Spiritual Times, published in 1864, lived for several
months, and then ceased to appear. The Spirit World, published
in 1853, died after appearing once only. The Spiritual Herald,
published monthly by Mr. Balliere, of Regent Street, in 1856,
was a very good periodical, and among other things contains a
report of a meeting at the London Mechanic’s Institution, at
which the subject of Spiritualism was discussed, and Mr. T. A.
Reed spoke in its favour; it also contains a remarkable spiritual
communication to the effect that the late Czar Nicholas of
Russia had rather a hard time of it on first entering the next
world. The Spiritual Herald reached its sixth number, and
then died a natural death.
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1870.
foetrg.
THE DEPARTED.
A little -way—I know it is not far
To that dear home where my helovM are ;
And yet my faith grows weaker, as I stand
A poor, lone pilgrim in a dreary land,
"Where present pain the future bliss obsoures
And still my heart sits, like a bird, upon
The empty nest, and mourns its treasures gone
Plumed for their flight,
And vanished quite.
Ah! me, where is the comfort?though I say
They have but journeyed on a little way!
A little way—at times they seem so near,
Their voices ever murmur at my ear;
To all my duties loving presence lend,
And with sweet ministry my steps attend,
And bring my soul the luxury of tears.;
’Twashere we met, and parted company
Why should their gain be such a grief to me ?
This sense of loss!
This heavy cross 1
Oh, Father, take the burden off, I pray,
And show me heaven is but a little way.
These sombre robes, these saddened faces, all
The bitterness and pain of death recall.
Ah! let me turn my face where’er I may,
I see the traces of a sure decay;
And parting takes the marrow out of life.
Secure in bliss, we hold the golden chain
Which death, with scarce a warning, snaps in twain.
And never more
Shall time restore
The broken links: ’twas only yesterday
They vanished from our sight—a little way!
A little way! This sentence I repeat,
Hoping, and longing to extract some sweet
To mingle with the bitter; from Thy hand
I take the cup I cannot understand,
And in my weakness give myself to Thee
Although it seems so very, very far
To that dear home where my belovM are,
I know, I know
It is not so.
Oh, give me faith to feel it when I say
That they are gone—gone but a little way!
Mours at Home.
©{irtespntiettce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers].
MR. CROOKES AND HIS CRITICS.
Sir,—Pardon me, but in my letter to the Medium, and
Daybreak of August 5th, I did not mean to compare Mr. W.
Crookes to the Professor of Pisa because the latter would not
look through Galileo’s telescope, but because the Pisan pro¬
fessor would imperturbably view astronomy by the light of
astrology, just as Mr. Crookes will view Spiritualism by the
light of modern science. The parallel is perfect. The re¬
mainder of my observations did not, could not apply to Mr.
Crookes, who is a thinker, an investigator, and a reasoner, but
to that class of one-sided narrow-minded men who from the
Pharisees to the Faradays, enflated by the homeopathic dose
of their special knowledge, and the applause of an ignorant
multitude, have arrogantly and systematically opposed every
new discoyery not in harmony with their pet theories, and
become a drag upon their generation and a laughing stock
for the future. G. Damiani.
Clifton, August 29th, 1870.
[Mr. Crookes is an eminent man of science, who by patient experiment
has made several discoveries of considerable practical value to the world.
He has begun to investigate Spiritualism, and he testifies that its phe¬
nomena are genuine, and that he will publish the results of his further
inquiries. Therefore there is reason for supposing that Signor Damiani
has adopted a mistaken course, in heaping censures upon the head of Mr.
Crookes in the pages of the Medium and Human Nature.—Ed.]
SIR,—The article written by Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., on
“ Spiritualism viewed by the light of Modem Science,” which
appeared first in the Quarterly Journal of Science for July,
thence copied into all the leading Spiritualistic journals,
has been criticised in an editorial of The Medium of July 8;
in an article signed S Bohemian,” appearing in same paper
of July 15; in a letter from Sig. Damiani; also in the Medium
of a later date; in another letter from the same writer, pub¬
lished in this month’s Human Nature, and in an editorial
note, appended to a copy of Mr. Crookes’s letter, which ap¬
peared in 'The Spiritualist of July 15th.
The object of all criticisms, it may fairly be assumed, is to
compare the article criticised with the highest positive know¬
ledge of the subject known to the reviewer. Therefore all
criticism, to be useful, should scrupulously compare the re¬
corded statements of the author with the highest positive
knowledge attainable, and, assuming the reviewer to be pos¬
sessed of this knowledge, he must be capable of understanding
the article he criticises, by putting himself in its author’s place.
Let the following comparison of the various critiques, with the
statements made in the article criticised, reveal their value:—
In an editorial appearing in the Medium of . July 8, Mr.
Crookes is assumed, by inference, to have “ Discoursed on
Spiritualism.”
In the “ Quarterly Journal of Science,” Mr. W. Crookes says,
speaking of the phenomena named by Spiritualists “Spiri¬
tualism,'’—“/ cannot at present hazard even the most vague
hypothesis as to the cause of the phenomena.”
By inference he is reported, “ To doubt the most authentic
and simplest facts of Spiritualism, because he has not been
able to prevail upon the spirits to move an isolated pendulum.”
He says,—“ That certain physical phenomena, such as the
movement of material substances, and the production of sounds
resembling electric discharges, occur under circumstances in
which they cannot be explained by any physical law at present
known, is a fact of which I am as certain as I am of the most
elementary fact in chemistry.” (No mention of the pendulum.)
By inference he is stated, “ To have insisted on certain
phenomena for his special use.”
From beginning to end of the article, there is not the slightest
trace of any such request having been made, much less insisted on.
By inference he is reported to have refused to investigate
facts, which the nature of the subject presented to him.
Mr. Crookes says,—“ I should feel it to be a great satisfaction
if I could bring out light in any direction, and I may safely say,
I care not in what direction.”
By inference it is reported he has requested the spiritual
beings to manifest by means of his instruments, and by in¬
ference he is made to throw doubt upon Spiritualism, because
the said instruments were not used.
There is no trace in the article under review of the record of
any request, on any subject, having been made to any spiritual
being. Therefore for him to have thrown doubt upon Spiritualism
because his request was not acceded to is—simply impossible.
By inference he is reported to have adjudicated upon Spiri¬
tualism,
Mr. Crookes says,—“ At present the phenomena I have ob¬
served baffle explanationl”
In the Medium of July 15, in an article signed “ Bohemian,”
Mr. Crookes is made to “ Presume and assume throughout his
entire essay, and to lead his readers to suppose he had formed
positive conclusions from actual experiment.”
In the early portion of the article, Mr. Crookes says,—“ I
enter upon the inquiry with no preconceived notion of what can
or cannot be.”
Towards the end he says,—“ / appeal to any of my readers
who may possess a key to these strange phenomena, to further
the progress of truth by assisting me in my investigations.”
He is said to attempt to explain the delusions of the honest,
and to expose the tricks of deceivers.
Mr. Crookes says,—“ Regarding the sufficiency of the expla¬
nation, I am not able to speak.”
He is made to say—“ He requires laws first) then conditions
and facts.”
He really says,—“ The first requisite is to be sure of facts;
then to ascertain conditions; next, laws.”
In Human Nature of September 2nd, Signor G. Damiani
gives a second and enlarged edition of his previous critique :
in this he infers,—“ That Mr. Crookes, assuming to know all
about Spiritualism, exhibits complete ignorance of it.”
Mr. Crookes says,—“ Hitherto I have seen nothing to convince
me of the truth of the “ Spiritual ” theory. Views and opinions
I cannot bet said to possess on a subject which I do not under¬
stand.”
By inference he is assumed—“ To have gone about his
investigations with brass pendulums in his pocket and glass
shades under his arms; and, because he has obtained no satis¬
factory results therewith, to have decided that there were no
spiritual beings.”
There is no trace in the article under review of any perigrina-
tion undertaken by Mr. Crookes so laden; nor is there any
denial, either positive or inferential, by him of the existence of,
and manifestation by spiritual beings.
In The Spiritualist <of July 15, he is by inference, made to
state—“That scientific men have the power to stop the
spreading of accurate knowledge on this subject among the
public.”
There is no trace of such a statement in the entire article;
although, had there, been, the knowledge of the great directing
power which the scientists of this generation have fairly acquired
over the public mind, would have justified it.
The above comparisons show how utterly worthless all the
criticisms are. Not one, excepting the editorial note, which
is appended to the article in No. 11 of The Spiritualist, shows
any appreciation of W. Crookes’s position. Entire and com¬
plete is the careless reading of the text by those who wrote
shown. The articles also are far from being thoughtfully con¬
siderate of their authors’ imperfect knowledge.
The ground occupied by Mr. Crookes in the article in
question is very clearly stated by him ; but, as it is evident
his whereabouts is not clearly seen, it will be well to have it
marked out again by an independent onlooker.
Says he—“ I am a trained scientist, I have always known
what would be the result of any experiment I made in my
profession, because the science is exact. I heard of anew science
called Spiritualism; I determined to investigate it, and entered
upon the enquiry without any preconceived notions whatever,
as to what could or could not be ; but feeling that it would
be a great satisfaction if I could bring out light in any
direction, no matter what. As a man used to experimenting
with physical forces, and hearing from my friends that phe¬
nomena were presented requiring a large amount of force
to bring them about, I, knowing nothing from personal ex¬
perience of any other force than that termed ‘ physical,’ 'fairly
assumed at the outset, that I should be able to test these
forces. After much experimenting, I fourid my instruments
useless ; but nevertheless I saw the phenomena, and am told
they have a spiritual origin. That phenomena were presented
is as clear to me as are the results of my chemical experiments;
but, whether the spiritual explanation of the cause of them
be correct or not, I am at present unable to say. It may or it
may not be ; but I need the spiritual proof to be so strikingly
and convincingly true, that I cannot deny it.”
Thus I read Mr. Crookes’s article. I do not know him,
never have seen him, and am not likely to, therefore this
paraphrase may be deemed by him an impertinence. I give
it in the interests of justice. True Spiritualism requires its
followers to be the representatives of care and accuracy :
which these reviewers have neglected. C. W. Pearce.
6, Cambridge-road, The Junction,
Kilbum, N.W.
HYDROPHOBIA.
Sir,—In the Banner of Light for July 3rd, 1869, appear the
following question and reply by the communicating spirit;—
“ Can the spirit-world give us a remedy for that terrible
disease known as hydrophobia ?”
1 ‘ Oh, yes, one within the reach of all. It is of itself a
powerful vegetable poison ; but it possesses those counteracting
properties necessary to annul the poison that exists in the
disease hydrophobia. This remedy you know as the herb
lobelia. IJse the leaves wet, with warm water, applied to the
wound, if there be any, and give of the tea, made very strong,
till the patient experiences a thorough muscular relaxation,
and it is perceived that the whole muscular system has come
under the influence of the remedy. Medical men inform us
that it will not produce vomiting when the disease hydro¬
phobia is upon the system, but it will act as a powerful agent
in neutralizing the poison, which is of an opposite character to
to itself, and will, in nine cases out of ten, prove thoroughly
effiectual, when given before the spasm seizes the patient; after
that it is not so sure.” This information may be of service to
some. .. R. T.
Stoke Newington, August 31st 1870.
"Whiter Eventnc Soirees.—We have heard that it is
Mr. Benjamin Coleman’s intention to inaugurate a series of
weekly meetings during the winter months, to be held at the
Assembly Rooms, Harley-street, for the purpose of hearing
papers read upon Spiritualism and kindred subjects, and of
inviting discussion thereon, in which meetings there is reason
to believe that some prominent literary and scientific men
will take part. At a time when Spiritualism is creating great
interest in the minds of many members of. learned and
scientific bodies in this country, the bringing together a
number of men and women of varied experiences, who will
command respectful attention from serious enquirers, wiU
tend to disseminate in the most agreeable and social way the
great truths which Spiritualists have to inculcate ; and from
the satisfactory manner in which Mr. Coleman has conducted
similar meetings, we trust that nothing will prevent him from
carrying his plans to a successful issue.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT LIVERPOOL.
Liverpool, Wednesday, Sept. 13th.
For some weeks past the town and Corporation of Liver¬
pool have been making extensive preparation for the reception
of the British Association, and thS proceedings began this
evening, at eight o’clock, in the Philharmonic Hall. The re¬
tiring president, Professor G. G. Stokes, F.R.S., having made a
short speech, the newpresident, Professor T. H. Huxley, F.R.S.,
delivered his opening address. In that address he reviewed
the experiments of many philosophers as to the origin of the
living organisms which often make their appearance in certain
solutions, after which he said “ And looking back through
the prodigious vista of the past, I find no record of the com¬
mencement of life, and therefore I am devoid of any means of
forming a definite conclusion as to the conditions of its appear¬
ance. Belief, in the scientific sense of the word, is a serious
matter, and needs strong foundations. To say, therefore, in
the admitted absence of evidence, that I have any belief as to
the mode in which the existing forms of life have originated,
j‘ would be using words in a wrong sense. But expectation is
permissible where belief is not; and if it were given me to
look beyond the abyss of geologically recorded time to the
still more remote period when the earth was passing through
physical and chemical conditions, which it can no more see
again than a man can recall his infancy, I should expect to be
a witness of the evolution of living protoplasm from not living
matter. I should expect to see it appear under forms of great
simplicity, endowed, like existing fungi, with the power of de¬
termining the formation of new protoplasm from such matters
as ammonium carbonates, oxalates and tartrates, alkaline and
earthy phosphates, and water, without the aid of light. That is
the expectation to which analogical reasoning leads me ; but I
beg you once more to recollect that I have no right to call my
opinion any thing but an act of philosophical faith.” Towards
the close of his address he called attention to the ravages of
epidemic and epizootic diseases, and he added :—“ Looking
back no further than ten years, it is possible to select three
(1863,1864 and 1869) in which the total number of deaths
from scarlet-fever alone amounted to ninety thousand. That is
the return of killed, the maimed and disabled being left out of
sight. Why, it is to be hoped that the list of killed in the pre¬
sent bloodiest of all wars will not amount to more than this t
But the facts, which I have placed before you, must leave the
least sanguine without a doubt that the nature and the causes
of this scourge will, one day, be as well understood as those
of the p6brine are now ; and that the long-suffered massacre
of our innocents will come to an end. And thus mankind will
have one more admonition that the ‘ people perish for lack of
knowledge ; ’ and that the alleviation of the miseries, and the
promotion of the welfare, of men must be sought, by those
who will not lose their pains, in that diligent, patient, loving
study of all the multitudinous aspects of Nature, the results of
which constitute exact knowledge or science. It is the justi¬
fication and glory of this great meeting that it is gathered
together for no other object than the advancement of the
moiety of science which deals with those phenomena of nature
which we call physical. May its endeavours be crowned with
a full measure of success.”
Ah interesting little book on Spiritualism, called Heaven
Opened, has just been issued, and we may have something
more to say about it hereafter. Mr. Burns is the publisher.'
The Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—On Sunday-
evening, August 28th, the last of the meetings this season,
was held at the Cavendish Rooms. Mr. Fabyan Daw conducted
the service, after which Mr. Morse gave an address in the
trance-state, on “ The Locality of the Spirit World.” His
spirit-guide asserted that “ all the material universe ultimates
in man, and that when man dies, there are spiritualized parti¬
cles in his earthly body, which are too coarse to form part of
the spirit body, and too ethereal to remain upon the surface of
the earth. The ascension of these particles is the cause of the
luminous appearances which clairvoyant sensitives see arising
from newly-made graves, as attested by Reichenbach and
others. These particles, which have been arising from all
parts of the earth throughout countless generations, are not
subject to the material attraction of the earth, but they are
subject to the spiritual forces connected with the earth; they
rise, according to their various degrees of refinement, to form
six concentric rings around the earth; so that, from a spiri¬
tual point of view, the earth has somewhat the appearance of
Saturn. The particles having within them the essential life
of trees and minerals, unfold those principles in a higher
stage of organic life ; so that these rings are real substantial
worlds to the spirits, and abound in flowers, trees, and scenery,
more beautiful than those of earth. The outer rings are of a
higher and more refined nature than the inner; man, at death,
ascends to his proper abode according to his affinities, and he
gradually progresses from the lower to the higher. The lower
spirits, whose affinities and natures tie them to earth, remain
and live upon the earth after the dissolution of the physical
body. Low spirits, in passing from a lower to a higher state,
are insensible for a short period, and in a state analagous to
physical death upon earth, although there is no putting off one
body and taking on another. The higher spirits do not lose
consciousness while undergoing the change. The law of eternal
progression applies to all matter, and the earth is slowly
spiritualising itself. When the outer sphere, connected with
this earth, is reached by man, his progression does not end
there; for in the universe of God there are higher abodes still,
and his course is ever upwards. These rings do not intercept
the physical elements of light, which is why they are not visi¬
ble to the natural eye, even when aided by astronomical in¬
struments ; but, in the course of ages, as the body of man be¬
comes more developed, and his life purer, he will be able to see
them.” Of the enormous importance of a revelation like this,
if it can be depended upon, it is unnecessary to comment; and
the best way to get at the truth is to compare the communica¬
tions given independently through many mediums by many
spirits. Andrew Jackson, Davis, and other clairvoyants,
speak of seeing these rings in the heavens, and of visiting
them. At a future time, we mean to make a searching exami¬
nation of the different spiritual communications on record
relating to astronomy. Mrs. De Morgan advances the opinion
that these revelations are all “symbolical teachings.” One
thing is certain, namely, that Mr. Morse, when in the trance
state, is under the control of much higher intelligences than
his own, and that some of their communications about earthly
things have proved, on inquiry, to be true. There was a good
attendance at this meeting; and if the managers of the
Cavendish Room services had engaged Mr. Morse to lecture
regularly, in the trance state, every Sunday evening, after the
departure of Mr. Peebles, under the presidency of a good
chairman, long before this the hall would have been found
too small to accommodate the listeners.
Sept. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
103
SEANCES AT THE SPIRITUAL LIBRARY.
MB. MORSE’S MEDIUMSHIP—EDUCATION AFTER DEATH—THE INFLUENCE OF
FOOD UPON THE PHYSICAL AND SPIRITUAL BODIES.
The following is a report of one of the usual weekly Friday
evening semi-private seances recently held at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, High Holborn, W.C. A payment of one shilling is
made by each visitor, who also has to enter his or her name
and address in a book ; after the stance begins the doors are
closed, and those who arrive after time are not admitted. At the
meeting now under notice the room was moderately well filled.
Mr. Bhebts, the proprietor of the establishment, made a
few remarks, briefly explaining to the strangers present the
nature of the communications received through the medium-
ship of Mr. Morse.
Mr. Morse then passed into the trance state, and the first
spirit who spoke through his lips, said that he was Edward
Moore, who had been crushed to death by machinery at the
East End of London, and had once before spoken through the
same medium. He said that since that evening the spirits
connected with the medium had done him much good; they
had lifted him up, opened’out his mind, and educated him. He,
therefore, felt thankful to them, thankful to the medium, and
thankful to the circle, so had returned that evening to say so.
It had made him a better man altogether, for after all it is
possible to grow better after death. He was very glad this
was true ; and he knew it to be true, because he had experi¬
enced it himself. He was sorry that he had pained the
medium so much when he came there before, but he could not
help it; it was not his fault. The spirit then left the medium.
When Edward Moore came to the circle before, and gave
the particulars of his death, inquiry was afterwards made
into the truth of his statements, and they were found to be
accurate. After he first manifested himself, Mr. Morse felt
sore and in pain the whole evening and all next day, it being
a common thing for trance mediums to feel the death-pains
of those spirits who communicate for the first time. On this
second occasion, he felt none of those pains, but when he re¬
covered consciousness his hands were white, and icy cold to
the touch.
Next, a spirit who often speaks through the medium, and
who calls himself “ The Strolling Player,” gave a short and
interesting address, in which he contrasted the relative posi¬
tions, on first entering the spirit-world, of a man who had led a
useful life on earth and of a man who had led a useless life here.
Tien Sien Tie, a Chinese philosopher, and the guardian
spirit of the medium, then spoke upon the philosophy of
animal nutrition, and said that the material body of man is
composed of atoms held together by affinity in the bond of
unity. The atoms are of various orders and degrees ; those
in the brain are higher than those in the extremities, they are
one step nearer to the spiritual, and are far more sensitive to
pain ; the atoms in the organs of vision differ from the atoms
in the tongue. Every atom within the body does its appointed
mission, and flows to its true position, expands, unveils, and
throws off its residue. The residue returns to earth, and in
time finds its way into another human body, but this time it is in
a higher and more refined state, according to the law of “ infinite
progression.” There is an affinity between the spiritual and ma¬
terial body of man, and the length of the time that this affinity
shall last is to some extent under the control of the individual,
for he can regulate his supply of food. There is life in the
food. That portion of the food which is not thrown off
undergoes refinement in every stage, and floats to its proper
position ; the particles in the blood refine themselves into a
fine aura, which runs through the nerves, and which may be
called “ vital mesmerine those who have much of this be¬
come powerful mesmerists. This aura refines itself, and
permeates the whole physical body, thus forming another
body not perceived by the physical senses of man. After death
this second body ascends, like a glorious thing as it is, and
floats away to its happy home in the eternal regions. There
is a connection between this refined body and the outer body;
the connecting link might be called “ vital electricity,” and it
is more refined than the “ vital mesmerine.” There is some¬
thing finer even than this spiritual body connecting it with
the intelligence which uses it; for the grand intelligence
within must have some means at its command of governing
the spirit-body; the connecting link may be called “vital
magnetism,” Thus, by means of link upon link in an ascend¬
ing scale, the intelligent monad within sends its messages out
to the body to execute. All this is very wonderful; we are
but infants in the school of the Infinite, and have to learn,
step by step, the Bible of existence. Food has a far greater
influence upon individuals than many persons think. When
food passes into the system, it creates its own auras or
spheres, and these are accepted or rejected by the atoms of
the body. If our food be so arranged that it is negative to
the atoms—that is to say, that it can be harmoniously
absorbed by the atoms—health is the result; if, however, we
take into the system food which is positive to the atoms of
the body, there Is repulsion between them, and mental and
physical ills follow. This opens the very grave question—
“ What is the best food for man to eat ?”—a subject on which
he would have much to say upon another evening. What is
the influence of the food upon intelligence? The brain
is composed of higher and lower atoms. When we come
near the higher spiritual faculties of the mind, the atoms are
higher than those in the portion of the brain governing the
animal faculties. The intellectual faculties are bright, clear,
and steel-like; but not so bright and clear as the spiritual
portion. The atoms in the brain are all revolving. After
positive food enters the body, it gradually refines itself, and
ascends to the sensitive brain, producing there cerebral dis¬
turbance ; some organs may be stopped for a time, or may be
abnormally excited. True, this lasts only for a time, and
people say “ it is indigestion,” but it is not good. Suppose we
have a good organism, with everything going right, the intro¬
duction of positive food causes general disturbance ; the con¬
ceptions and thoughts grow misty and shadowy, whereas
before they were clear and bright. Simple as all this may
appear to be, the introduction of improper food often does
incalculable injury, causing illness, stupor, and dissolution.,
“At death, gradually, slowly, and beautifully,” said the spirit,
“ do the two bodies separate, and could you isee the soul
leaving its earthly form, you would be ready to fall down and
worship at the shrine of the Infinite, in spirit and in truth.”
Still, improper food is not the natural cause of death. When
the man, in the course of years, has formed the spiritual body,
he no longer needs the physical body, so the avenues of its
existence close up slowly one after the other, the outer form
grows old, the face grows wrinkled, and the hair turns grey ;
old age stamps its mark upon the man, and he totters like an
infant. How like As old age to childhood, for nature ever
repeats herself. The life of the body having been withdrawn,
the “vital electricity” connecting the spirit and body is
extinguished, the brain is excited into action, and draws
upwards from the extremities the refined body. The space
near the head becomes luminous, and above the earthly body
lies another form, youthful and beautiful. In drowning, a man
may be cold, and apparently as dead as a piece of wood, yet
it does not follow that the inner man has left the body ; there
are processes to undergo before the brain can withdraw the
spiritual body, but these exceptional cases he would speak
about at another time. Old age is a natural necessity not
to be repined at, or scorned, any more than infancy. The
philosophy of the action of food, which he had narrated,
applied equally to the action of poisons.
A visitor asked—“ What is the best food for man ?”
The spirit replied that all men do not require the same kind
of food; but so far as his knowledge extended, he thought that
the best food for a man of high-class sensitive mind, was
fruit, vegetables, bread, milk, and pure water. At the present
time men pay too much attention to desires and inclinations,
and too little to laws and principles.
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
THE ECCLESIASTICAL MEETING AT KINGSTON.
We have an answer to give to the remarks of the ecclesias¬
tical speakers at the meeting at Kingston, reported in another
column. Had they, as usual, told their hearers that Spiri¬
tualism was all delusion and imposture, we should, have said
nothing, but permitted their own words to condemn them in
the tribunal before which their utterances are now arrayed.
But the meeting was an honest one; the phenomena of
Spiritualism were admitted to be genuine, and the opinion
was expressed that those phenomena are produced by demons.
When a theologian, in consequence of his early training,
believes in devils as a distinct creation made by the Almighty
to deceive and torment man, this is a perfectly legitimate,
logical, and honest theory to put forth.
Our answer to this is, that a medium, or, as Mr. Cook would
call him, “ a bottle,” was a few weeks ago enabled by spirits
to perform the following act at Kingston-on-Thames: namely,
by laying on of hands, to cure a boy of a terrible affliction.
That boy was the son of a baker, Mr. Hewitt, of Twickenham-
green, near Kingston. Before the boy saw the medium, or
“ bottle,” he had five or six fits each week, and sometimes he
would be in fits ten hours a day. Since treatment by Dr.
Newton, the medium, he has had no fits, and has been able to
run about and play like other boys. Dr. Newton is a medium
with whom the spirits, or “ devils,” often communicate by raps,
and the said devils have recently helped him to cure of dread¬
ful and long-standing' diseases more than one hundred per¬
sons, whose names and addresses, in full, with particulars, will
be found in the last four numbers of The Spiritualist. Dr.
Newton, who does not believe in miracles, fails to cure in
perhaps four cases out of five ; nevertheless, since he has been
in England, he and his assistant devils have cured ■ certainly
several thousands of people of inveterate diseases. Now, as
all the preachers in Kingston, assisted by angelic powers, can¬
not do anything of the kind, or give the slightest, vestige of
proof that they have more authority from on high than other
men, would it not be as well for the public to consider very
deeply, whether or no a tree should be judged by its fruits ?
Who was it who taught that atree should be judged by its fruits?
The following letter gives some more information about the
deeds of a medium and his attendant “ devils—
“ Sir,—I have great pleasure in stating that up to the 7th August of the
present year, I had been for nearly a year and a-half afflicted with acute
spinal disease, for which I had been attended by both local andLondon medi¬
cal practitioners, but from whom I had received no benefit; one, in fact, having
told me that mine was a hopeless case. I wa’s less than three minutes with.
Dr. Newton, who kindly called upon me on the 7th of August, I not then
being able to walk, even across the room, without assistance; blit after he
placed his healing hands on me, I was able to walk out unaided for more
than a mile, and since that time I have enjoyed most excellent health, and
have been nearly as active as I ever was in my life. I most solemnly assert
the truth of this statement, for the benefit of others, and hereunto sign my
name. ■ \ Eliza Penfold.
“ London-road, Kingston-on-Thames, Sept. 7th, 1870.”
There is another point which deserves special attention.
The lecturer, after admitting that Spiritualism was not im¬
posture, said something about the rich incomes received by
impostors who connected themselves with the movement. In
this age, so deeply material, such suggestions have a potent
influence. Suppose, then, we accept the standard insinuated,
and admit that the amount of wealth received from the
public by spiritual teachers is a tolerably good gauge of the
amount of imposture on the part of the recipients. Mrs.
Marshall has given up paid mediumship. The only paid
mediums in London that we know of are two youths, Mr.
Morse and Mr. Heme, whose united earnings are certainly
much less than five pounds a week. We estimate the total
amount received by paid mediums in the whole of Great
Britain and Ireland at less than ten pounds per week.
So much for one side of the picture. Now for the other.
Here are the payments received by twenty-eight Church
bishops, who preach the doctrine of Christ, “ Sell all that thou
hast and give to the poor ” :—
Name of Diocese.
Annual Incomel
as fixed by
Order in Council
gazetted
Sept. 19,1851.
Number
of
Benefices
Total Popula¬
tion of Diocese
including
N onconformists.
London 
Manchester  
Winchester  
Chester 
Lichfield  
Ripon  
Exeter  
York    
Durham 
Worcester  
Rochester 
Lincoln 
Norwich   
Gloucester and Bristol
Canterbury  
Oxford  
Peterborough  
Ely..,.. | 
St. David’s  
Bath and Wells  
Llandaff     
Salisbury | 
Chichester ..... 1. .>;.t.
Carlisle 
St. Asaph ...;  
Hereford  ......A
Bangor  
Sodor and Man   
£10,000
4,200
7,000
4,500
4,500
4,500
5,000
10,000
8,000
5,000
; 5,000
5,000
4,500
5,000
15,000
5,000
4.500
5.500
4.500
5,000
4,200
5,000
4,200 ,
4,500
4,200
4,200
4,200
2,000*
400
406
651
355
570
430
694
589
310
455
657
798
909
459
383
614
550
538
397
481
228
478
330
276
190
410
130
30
2,291,584
1,679,326
1,267,794
1,248,416
1,221,404
ljl67,288
953,763
930,216
885,150
857,775
855,409
706,026
667,704
568,574
' 530,863
515,083
486,977
480,716 ,
435,912
422,-527
418,113
377.337
363,735
301,960
246.337
232,401
195,320
52,469
* Usually stated at that amount.
The total amount received by twenty-eight ecclesiastics
only, is thus £154,200 a year. If we include the receipts of
all the ecclesiastical preachers in the United Kingdom,
coupled with their rents from large landed estates, which
once belonged to the public, the amount would be raised to
several millions of money a year withdrawn from the in¬
dustrious portion of the nation. As, then, the paid preachers
in the nation receive several millions a year, and all the paid
mediums in the nation receive about £500 a year, and pro¬
bably much less, it is easy to see on which side the imposture
lies, if Mr. Cook lays down the rule that the money receipts
of alleged spiritual.teachers are in proportion to their power
of imposing upon the credulity of the public. But there is
this difference between paid media and paid preachers:—the
paid medium can give scientific evidence that he has powers
conferred upon him from the higher world, whilst the paid
preacher cannot produce a single rag of any evidence of the
kind beyond his own interested assertion.
When a medium permits himself, for the time being, to act
the part of a “ bottle ” to a higher spirit than himself, mes¬
sages of love and wisdom are often poured through him of a
higher nature than the public could otherwise receive. As
one instance of this among thousands, the attention of Mr.
Cook is invited to “ Birdie’s Song,” printed on page fourteen
of this journal.
The most striking thing to an independent listener to the
lecture was the familiarity of the speakers with the Almighty,
and the glib way in which they told the listeners what God
does like, and what He does not like. Does Mr. Cook really
wish Mr. Morse, Mr. Home, Mrs. Marshall, and all other
mediums to be put to death, in the way which he states that
“ God ” orders ; and would he kill them, if the British law
would let him ? If not, it is quite plain either that he himself
does not believe that God orders anything of the kind, or that
he is ashamed to execute the orders of his Lord. Why,
then, should he tell his unfortunate listeners that they must
obey one half of the text, and not consult mediums on the
pain of damnation, while he himself would on no account obey
the other half of the same verse, in which, so says Mr. Cook,
“ God ” commands that the mediums shall be put to death.
Why should Mr. Cook consider texts to be binding upon his
hearers, but not upon himself ? Sense may be made of the
sayings of the speakers, by substituting the words “ Mr. Cook
asserts that God says,” or “ Moses asserted that God says,” for
the words “ God says.” It should be remembered that the
Jews were a small and inferior race, lower in civilization and
intelligence than many other Eastern nations, and they were
usually the subjects or the slaves of their neighbours. Moses,
and other priests who governed them, asserted to them that
“ God ” gave some very peculiar orders, as illustrated by the
following specimens:—
“ And Moses said, Thus saith the Lord, put every man his
sword by his side, and go in and out throughout the camp, and
slay every man his brother, and every man his companion,
and every man his neighbour.” (Ex. xxxi. 27.)
“ The Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto Aaron,
saying, whatsoever man he be that hath a blemish, is lame, or
hath a broken hand, or a flat nose, or a crooked back, or a de¬
fective eye, shall not approach to offer the bread of the Lord.”
( Lev. xxi. 16—20.)
S Joshua smote all the country and all their kings, he left
none remaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the
Lord God of Israel commanded.” (Joshua x. 40.)
“ Now go (said Samuel to Saul) and smite Amalek, and utterly
destroy all that they have and spare them not, but slay both man
and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep.” (1 Sam. xv. 3.)
“ But of the cities of these people, the Lord thy God doth
give thee for an inheritance, thou shalt save alive nothing
that breatheth. But thou shalt utterly destroy tkem, the
Hittites, and the Amorites, the Canaanites, and the Perizzites,
the Hivites, and the Jebusites, as the Lord thy God hath com¬
manded thee.” (Dent. xx. 16—17.)
“ And it came to pass, that, in the morning watch the Lord
looked unto the host of the Egyptians.... And he (the Lord)
took off their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily : so
that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel, for
the Lord fighteth for them against the Egyptians.” (Ex.xiv. 24.)
“ And the Lord said unto Joshua, Fear not, neither be thou
dismayed: take all the people of war with thee, and arise go
up to Ai. . .. For Joshua drew not his hand back, wherewith
he stretched out the spear, until he had utterly destroyed all the
inhabitants of Ai. And so it was, that all who fell that day,
both of men and women, were twelve thousand, even all the
men of Ai.” (Josh. viii. 1, 26.)
“ The Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Avenge the children
of Israel of the Midianites: afterward shalt thou be gathered
unto thy people.. .. And Moses sent them to war a thousand
of every tribe ; and they warred against the Midianites, as the
Lord had commanded Moses, and they slew all the males... .
And Moses said unto them, Have ye saved all the women
alive ?.. . Now therefore, kill every male among the little ones,
and kill every woman that hath known man by lying with him.
But all the women children, that have not known a man by
lying with him,-keep alive for yourselves.” (Num.xxxi. 1—18.)
Turning from the assertions of a man whose orders were bind¬
ing upon the Jews, and are now attempted to be made binding
upon the dwellers in Kingston-upon-Thames, we may state
that those present at the lecture were wrongly informed that
the Bible gives no information that men ever become angels,
or that good men would ever hold converse with the spirits of
the departed. In Revelations, chap. xxii. John says :—“ I
fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which
shewed me these things. Then he saith unto me, see thou do
it not, for I am thy fellow-servant, and of thy brethren the
prophets.” In another place, John distinctly recognises the
right of Christians to hold converse with spirits, for he says in
the third chapter of his first epistle :—“ Beloved, believe not
every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God, be¬
cause many false prophets are gone out into the world.
Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that con-
fesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, is of God.
And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come
in the flesh is not of God.” Very many Spiritualists test the
spirits in this way, and refuse utterly to hold converse with any
spirits who do not confess that Jesus Christ came in the flesh.
We freely admit the fair, gentlemanly, and honest character
of the remarks made by all the speakers at the meeting, but
remind them that an awful responsibility rests upon their
shoulders, if they misguide the many negative minds under
their control, by giving them false ideas about the loving
character of God, and the nature of the next life
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Errors.—The dates of the two letters in our last, under the head¬
ing “Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., on Spiritualism,” should be
“ August 12th, 1870,” and “ August llth, 1870,” respectively.
104
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 15, 1870,
FACTS FOB. NON-SPIEITTJALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SFUtlTUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. C. P. Varley,
C. E., F.R.G.S., M.R.I.:—
“I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. . I. have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not'due to the operation of .any ,of the recognised'
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
It also came out in tbe evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of. the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:-- . V ■
“ Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred R. 'Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, R.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. Jobn’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. 0. Hall, Esq.; IS, Ashley-place,
Victoria^street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a boob, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where *' she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. -Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a boob recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting boobs on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of wh&t
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal of
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870:—
“20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“Jvdy 13th, 1870.
“ Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
alpng the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
“ I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the good
friends I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours,
William: Crookes.”
A work entitled The Boole of Nature, by 0. 0.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:— -
“ There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No:; .for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author'addresses himself. But even, in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud,, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism." ,
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Oliftbn, has written a pa'mphlet,’' still, in'print, ,1
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall;,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000. guineas to any respectable, , scien¬
tific, or educated, men,- .who"jvill (investigatetthe'
subj ect. and. prove" it"!.to) be an' imposture.1 The
following are his words
“I now offer you two challenges.
.“ First, I challenge you,* or either of you, or any of
the public whoi like'youj’dislielieye'in the genuine cha¬
racter of - spiritualistic phenomena, to., deposit’in'(the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you ,pr
they may name, the sum of five hundred ’guineas; and
I pledge myself to* immediately deposit in'the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers'
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively, of mem¬
bers of-, the learned professions, and; hterary men),; to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character., A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party acceptihg this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“ The result of these chahenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
. papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this Iptter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the ahoYe evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Spiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings de not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
T. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four,' five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex; Sit round an un¬
covered wooden. table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top. surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
‘obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not,sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence. .
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits. ,
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to -the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that thr&e tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given'in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
■ system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably some members of the circle'will then be told
-to'cHailJe seats with each >other, and the signals will be
.dj-terwards>strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the
■medium?.’’. When spirits come asserting themselves to
be( related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions'should'be put’to test the accuracy; of the
Statements, as spirits out ,of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
| Possibly, at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other Jorms of; mediumship than tiltsn or raps.,
may make their, appearance. Information respect¬
ing, the many, kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start’a new
circle.
There are in - England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the. sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. When any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the Voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-halt in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece or music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes. •
THE PROGBESSIVE LIBRAEY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.O.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Reading-Room supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Room for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Rooms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Planchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing1 Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“ Home for Spiritualism" and the Science of. Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Hblbom, London, W.C
HE SPIBITUAL MAGAZINE, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.O.
The only Cheap Weekly Horticutural Journal.
2d. Weekly; and in Monthly Parts, lOd.
THE GABDENEB’S MAGAZINE for
Amateur Cultivators, Collectors, and Exhibitors
of Plants, Flowers and Fruits, for Gentlemen’s Gar¬
deners, Florists, Nurserymen, and Seedsmen; for Na¬
turalists, Botanists, Bee-keepers, and Lovers of the
Country. Conducted by Shirley Hibberd, Esq.,
F.R.H.S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
And by Order of all Booksellers and Newsagents in
Town and Country.
HUMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Recent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home,'Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to: the nature, and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instmetive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month from the'Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holbom, London, W.O.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIBITUAL
MAGAZINES for SALE, besides several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND CO., 335, STRAND, W.C.
Where also may be obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, , and the Spiritualist on day of
Publication, Wholesale, and Retail.
On theffrst .of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted, to Lhe. advocacy -, of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS.' Price.Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co:, 60, Paterhoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawsbn; and John Heywood; and
through all booksellers and agents.. ,
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
His Grace the imke of* Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess’de Ndailles'. f
The Right Honourable the Eari of Shaftesbury, K.G.
■ Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171Aldersgate-street,E,C.
Honorary Secretary: < \ y:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D. •,
Lady Secretary:,
Mrs. Blaingy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.,
The Female Medical Society is established for the'
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities,
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and.
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine-
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to lajlies who may not be-;
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and* there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’"
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have alreadyavailed themselves
of its advantages, and many of. these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription I of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be-
gladly received. * -
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
~VTO. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
v ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that the facts of Spiritualism are true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
Society by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first,
and should be ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
the possession of the early friends of the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; or J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
Contents*
The Action of Shells and Minerals upon Clairvoyant
Sensitives ... ' ...  97’
Manifestations through Mr. Home’s Mediumship ... 98.
Mrs. Guppy's Mediumship.—Seeing Mediumship—
Flowers brought to Stances by Spirits under Test
Conditions—Butterflies, Star-fishes, Birds, and
Solid Objects brought to Circles by Spirits ... 98
Ecclesiastical Opinions of Spiritualism  100
Spiritual Manifestations at Norwood 100
Leader:—Faith in the Spirits   101
Farewell Meeting to Dr. Newton  101
Poetry:—The Departed   ...102-
Correspondence :—Mr. Crookes and his Critics—
• Hydrophobia    102
The British Association at Liverpool  •— 102
Stances at the SpiritiMl Library. — Mr. Morse’s ,
Mediumship—Education after Death—The In¬
fluence of Food upon the Physical and Spiritual
Bodies   ... ...  .103
The Ecclesiastical Meeting at Kingston ... ... 103
Paragraphs:—Mr. Morse’s Mediumship, 99; Spiri¬
tualism in Dalston, 100; Dr. Newton in Maidstone;
100; Winter Lectures on Spiritualism, 101; Spiri¬
tual Periodicals, 101; Winter Evening Soirees, 102;
The Services at the Cavendish Rooms, 102.
Answers to Correspondents ... ■   103
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St George the Martyr, London, and published by E.
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
