AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
SCIENCE.
[BEGISTEKED FOB TEANSMISSION ABBOAD.]
No. 141.—(Vol. VI.—No. 19.) LONDON: MAY 7j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OS’
SPIRITUALISTS.
Spirit Teachings. No. XXXIII   217
Psychology and Spiritualism. By "William Hitchman, M.R.C.S. (Bing.) 219
The ■“ Coming Man ”    221
Mrs. Hardy’s Visit to England    ...221
The Writing Mediumship of a Baby. By Henry D. Jencken, Barrister-
at-Law  | 222
Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris: Arrest of M. Leymlire, M. Bu-
guet, and Mr. Firman 222
Poetry:—“ The Destiny of the Soul ”  223
Correspondence:—Credulity and Incredulity—Internal Respiration,
No. IV.—Alleged Neglect of Workers in Spiritualism—Spiritualism
in Dalston—The Bazaar — Continental Mediums—Ambiguous
Phrases in Spiritualism     223
Answers to Correspondents     ...228
Paragraphs:—A Seance in Dalston, 220; Spiritualism in the United
States, 220; The Dalston Association of Spiritualists, 221; The
Bazaar, 221; Large Importation of American Books on Spiritual¬
ism, 221; The National Association Library, 221; A Seance with
Mr. Bastian    221
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 187 0.)
‘President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.R.I., F.R.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black.
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Corner.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer
j Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
-Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to abetter understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations [vide Rule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the first Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to , the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Rooms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Rules, Circle Regulations, and directions “ how to form Spirit
“ Circles,’’ with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane. ■
Fouk per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
• 1 Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may he obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
■important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal expefienfees. E. W, Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-streetf Holborn. Price One Shilling.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena,
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, land the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, "W.C., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
Connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly; 5s.
Light refreshments supplied at moderate charges.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL hold a
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month until further notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d.
To be obtained in advance of the resident secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, "W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject:
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualism. < .
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat 7, 1875.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MES
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work
containing interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality
of spirit communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the
author’s views of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian
Church. 7s. 6d.
THE IDENTITY OP PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D. A valuable
work, containing useful information relating to the Scientific and
Religious aspects of Spiritualism, and replete with well authenticated
descriptions of manifestations. 12s. 6di.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete
with well authenticated narratives describing manifestations produced
by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and
other professional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years
without engaging the services of any professional medium, after which
they published the report. Original edition, 15s.; abridged edition,
5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifi¬
cally demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in
reply to Hume's Essay on Miracles. It also records a large number of
interesting spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal
experiences of Mr. Wallace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual
phenomena. Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to
Religion and Science is also given. 6s.; New edition, 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt
edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of
essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism.
8s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving
general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums^ also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism.
8s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law, An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of
the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are pro¬
duced by an alleged Psychic Force, unconsciously governed in its
action by the thoughts of the medium or the spectators. 8s. The
first vol. of this book, which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of
print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly published book contains Facts and Traditions
relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and
Witchcraft. The author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but
considers Modern Spiritualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives
valuable facts, previously unpublished, and prints the only authorised
and complete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 15s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCE OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s. *
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND, by Maria M. King. 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, by Lizzie Doten. Best edition, gilt.
10s. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. Newton. Is. 3d.
LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell, Is. 3d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND WOLOGY.—Continued.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott
14s.
PROOF' PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE, by Lizzie Doten. Last edition,
gilt 10s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 12s. 6d.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOVERIES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by WiRiam Denton. 6s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Vol. L, 7s. 6d.
Vols. II and III 8s. each.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beabhrs for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TURES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
MARYLEBONE ASS0CIATION O F INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
HE object of the Committee and of the Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and precious
truths of Spiritualism. We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com¬
munion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Chahlks J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURES,
ON SUNDAY EVENINGS AT 7 p.m.,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMERrSTREET, W.
THIRD AND FINAL COURSE OF SIX'UECTURES.
May 2.—1. “Further Experiences in Spirit Life,” by the late Judge
Edmonds. May 9.—2. “ Spiritual Chemistry,” by the late Professor
Mapes. May 16.—3. “ Moral and Spiritual Healing,” by the late Dr.
Rush. May 23.—4. “ Experiences in Spirit Life, and in Communicating
with Mortals, by the late Adin Augustus Ballon. May 30.—5. “ The
Harmony and Divinity of all Religions,” by the late Theodore^ Parker.
June 6.—6. “The Spiritual Cosmos,” by the Whole Band of Twelve
Guides. 
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
r HO THE GUARDIANS OF ORPHAN GENTLEWOMEN,
JL or others deprived of the advantages of a Home Circle. A Lady of
unsectarian and liberal views wishes to receive into her house Three
Young Ladies from the age of sixteen, in order to complete their studies
by means 'of the classes held at ihe Crystal Palaoh SCHOOL OF Art,
where the best masters are engaged. Board and residence, exclusive of
school fees, 120 guineas per annum. Young ladies of good family from the
Continent or the; Colonies would be acceptable. Address Y Z, Nicholls,
Newsagent, Upper Norwood.
T" O THE READERS OE “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W,
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
% 1|mrir ttf t\t xdj mb xrlj
V0J1.UjVIE ^IX. jHUJVIBEF} NINETEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 7th, 187B.
Spiritwalist
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or imgularity in the supply of '■'•The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers inSpiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 333, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, fisc., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J, T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
JpEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper .facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Ttmporary Offices—l, Fitaroy-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXXIII.
During the time that I was in doubt as to the source
from which these communications came, and after the
arguments which have been before printed, my perplexity
was increased by the fact that a spirit who came and
communicated had spelt his name wrongly. The name
(one wellTcnoion to me)ivas written “ directlyi.e., without
human intervention, presumably by the communicating
spirit, and was grossly misspelt. This made me more
doubtful than before’, and I put my objection strongly.
It was not to be expected, I said, that I should believe in
the identity of a spirit who gave a great and well-Tcnown
name which it could not even spell. To this i( Imperator,}
replied:—
We do not desire to argue out the question of identity,
but the incident to which you refer is susceptible of a
ready explanation. The identity of the spirit was
avouched by me, and you have at least found my words
to be accurate. The error was committed by the mani¬
festing spirit who wrote. The intelligences who are
able to compass the particular manifestation which you
call direct writing, and for which you had on this par¬
ticular occasion expressed a strong wish, are few. Most
frequently the actual writing is done by one who is
accustomed to manifest in that way, and who acts, as it
were, as the amanuensis of the spirits who wish to
communicate. In many cases several spirits are con¬
cerned. The error which arose in this way through
inadvertence, was during the seance corrected in a com¬
munication given through the table ; but it would seem
to have escaped you. It is well that you inquire
patiently into seeming errors and contradictions. Many,
so inquired into, would be found susceptible of explana¬
tion, even as this.
The disturbed state of my mind now caused our sit¬
tings to be disturbed. Phenomena were evolved in a
very erratic fashion, violently at times, and with great
irregularity. It ivas said that “ the instrument being
out of tune, the notes extracted from it were jarring and
discordant." Sometimes a sitting ivould soothe me, but
sometimes it vjould worJc me 'up to a pitch of nervous
tension, which ivas extremely painful. It was written on
Sept. 30,1873
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-read, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarUy omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the gams.—'Ed.
218
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 7, 1875.
Sometimes we are able to quiet and soothe, but not
when every nerve is quivering, and the over-wrought
system is strained to an extremity of tension. We have
little power then, and at best can only save you from
the risk you run of being seized upon by undeveloped
spirits who are attracted by your state. We urge you
not at such times to place yourself in communion with
our world. Be wary of the future for many reasons.
Your greater development, which is rapid and progres¬
sive, will render you more and more amenable to
spiritual influence of all kinds. Such spirits will en¬
deavour to approach you, and by sitting you facilitate
their entry to the circle. You need fear no evil, but
you may have disturbance. It is well for all highly-
developed mediums to be chary of sitting in circles
where influences other than those which surround them
are gathered. Danger always attends such experi¬
ments, and your present tone and temper of mind
lays you doubly open to assault. Try to bring to the
circle a patient and a passive mind. Your evidence
will be the more readily attained if you are content so
to act.
I replied that I wished so to do, but that I must
estimate everything according to my own reason. I put
two or three points which seemed to me to be of crucial
importance, far more than the communications given
from spirits who had borne great names on earth ; and
who rather perplexed me than otherwise. I did not
think it likely that the world's celebrities would come
back for the purpose of giving me little bewildering mes¬
sages. I asked for good and plentiful evidence of the
return of a friend who had lately passed, from among
us, and who had been most deeply interested in our
circle. That seemed to' me to be an opportunity which
7night settle the identity question definitely. And I fur¬
ther asked very earnestly for clear and conclusive state¬
ments as to the origin, scope, and issue of the movement,
specially as to spirit identity. Assuming the truth of
statements already made, I pointed out that it ivas vitally
important that the necessary proofs to withstand scoffing
and sceptical criticism should be full and unmistakable.
At present I had no shred of proof of anything beyond
the existence of certain phenomena, and the presence of
some external intelligence. I could not act on that. Even
if I were willing I was not able to go on till doubts ivhich
I could not dispel were cleared from my mind.
An answer came to me Oct. 1, 1873:—
May the blessing of the All wise rest upon you ! If
we do not follow you into all the points or discuss all
the questions which you have mooted, you must attri¬
bute it to the impossibility of giving you complete evi¬
dence which shall be satisfactory to you in your present
frame of mind. Though we are thankful, to recognise
in many particulars a fair and candid spirit in your
objections, still we cannot fail to know that at the root
of them lies mistrust of our statements and want of
confidence in our claims. This is painful to us, and, as
we feel, unjust. Doubt is sin in none. Intellectual
inability to accept certain statements is not matter for
blame. But refusal to weigh evidence fairly, and in¬
clination to set up a personal standard of evidence
which is fictitious and selfish, may end in grievous con¬
sequences, and this is the ground of our complaint.
We respect your doubts, and shall rejoice with you
when they are removed. But we blame and censure
the attitude which makes it well-nigh impossible for
us to remove them; which fences you in as with an icy
barrier beyond which we cannot pass ; which degrades
a candid and progressive soul to a state of isolation and
retrogression, and binds the spirit to the dark regions
of the nether earth. Such temper of mind is the bale¬
ful result of evil influence, and, if it be not checked,
it may become a permanent bar to progress.
We have not deserved of you that you should receive
us in such a spirit, or that all our attempts at com¬
munion should be viewed with jealous and suspicious
eye. You are fond of comparing the state of the world
and the favoured few in Judaea with that which now
obtains. We will give you a parallel from the very
mouth of Jesus in His answer to those who asked of
Him a sign. You know that none was given save one
which He Himself selected. We care not now as to
the why and wherefore. Perhaps it was impossible :
perhaps it was undesirable : perhaps the very attitude
of mind precluded the possibility of granting the request.
Such is precisely the case with you in this respect.
The temper of mind which dictates such arguments as you
have addressed to us makes it impossible for us to reply
to them in terms pleasing to you. The reasons which
presumably operated in the one case now operate in the
other. And it should scarcely be necessary to remind
you that it was not to the Pharisee, the Sadducee, or
the wise in their own conceit, who came to Him seeking
to entangle Him in His talk, that Jesus vouchsafed
either His words of comfort or His miracles of mercy,
but to the humble and the meek, to the poor in spirit,
the faithful, earnest souls who were too careful to
gather up the blessed truths, and to reap the precious
fruit, to care very curiously to inquire in what form it
came or under what conditions it was bestowed. It
was so throughout His earthly career: and in so doing
He did but act as the Father Himself deals with man.
The proud, dogmatic, haughty man who informs Omni¬
potence of what he wants, and murmurs if it be not
instantly bestowed, is not the recipient of Divine bene¬
diction, but the humble, trustful, prayerful soul, whose
cry from the depths of an earnest and loving heart is,
“ Father, not my will but Thine be done.’’
This is the law which governs all Divine manifesta¬
tions. We say nothing now of the identical law which
operates amongst you. But we deal thus with you;
and we complain that the positive tone of your mind,
and the line of dogmatic argument which you have de¬
termined to follow, is one that is little fitting in your
case. We are compelled, however unwillingly, to visit
it with censure. Review the past. Let your mind
recur to that phase of your life which you know to
have been associated with us. Of the previous care of
your guardians extending throughout your life you can
have no knowledge yet. The watchful care which de¬
veloped in you the struggling germ of progress; the
tender care of those angel-guards whose watchful pro¬
tection never failed; the preservations from evil; the
guidance in difficulty; the direction in the onward
path; the raising of your soul from ignorance and
error to knowledge of the truth—this unseen working is
to you unknown. But our efforts have not been en¬
tirely secret. During the immediate past we have been
around and about you day by day. You have known
our words and acts ; you have received from us constant
messages, records of which remain with you. Did a
word of ours ever strike your mind as false ? Did an
act ever seem to you mean, or selfish, or unkind ? Have
we committed ourselves ? Have we fepoken to you words
that were degrading or foolish? Have we influenced
you by wiles which were earthy, by motives that were
sordid ? Have we led you to a course that is retrogres¬
sive? In short, by our fruits if we are judged, has
the influence on you been for evil or for good ? for God
or for His foes ? You yourself, are you better or worse
May 7, 1875.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
219
for it? more or less ignorant? more or less useful?
more or less happy ?
We dare any to say of us aught that may reasonably
reflect on us, on our acts, or on our teaching. We assert
in the face of all who hear that it is God-like, and that
our mission is of and from Him.
Nor have we failed to justify our claims by signs fol¬
lowing, even as Jesus did and said. We have placed
before you a body of convincing evidence to which it
would be difficult to add. We have not been chary of
complying with your wishes for manifestations of power.
Nay, we have even risked doing harm to you in our
desire to gratify our friends by the exhibition of the
more remarkable manifestations. We have cheerfully
granted all requests made to us, when it was possible,
and as we, in the exercise of wider wisdom, judged de¬
sirable to do so. When we have refused your requests
it has been because you have asked impossibilities, or
because in your ignorance you have wished for what
would do you harm. It is necessary to remind you
that we see from a clearer standpoint, and with a more
piercing vision than man has yet attained; and we
are frequently obliged to refuse requests made in
ignorance and folly. But what has been refused,
never without good reason, is as a speck to the moun¬
tain of evidence which has been given—evidence which
is sufficient to prove over and over again the existence
of a power external to earth, beneficent in its action,
eleva'ting in its operation, and blessed in its issue—a
power which can come from none but God, since it is
Divine in act and outcome. Yet that power, so proven,
so known to you, you distrust, and seriously question
the statements which we make to you as to our identity.
It is to you, forsooth, a stumbling-block that names
which you have exalted should stoop to concern them¬
selves with a Divine Work, under the leadership of
Divinely-sent messengers, and designed for the ameliora-
ton of man’s destiny. And so you refuse credence, and,
with daring ignorance, charge on us that we are, or at
least may be, impostors, and that we are performing
acts of beneficence with a lie in our mouths. This you
do though you know that you can devise no reason why
we should deceive, no source but God from which we
can be derived, no errand but mercy on which we can
be sent, no end but man’s eternal benefit on which we
can be employed.
It is this that constitutes your fault, and we are
bound to censure it in you. We tell you that it is in
you sin, and that we will have no dealings with you
on such terms. We will give no signs so demanded.
We have reached the limits beyond which we will not
go, and we warn you that it is at your own peril that
you despise what has been placed before you. We
charge you solemnly that you meditate on the past, that
you ponder its lessons, weigh its evidence, and pause
before you wilfully put aside such a body of teaching,
and such a mass of evidence merely for an idea.
More we will not now give. We refuse to be judged
as you would judge; and we appeal from yourself blind
and foolish, to that calmer and truer self whom we
chose originally as the recipient of our teaching. That
appeal you must entertain according to the ability and
honesty which is in you. ' By it we stand or fall as
regards you. We wish you to decide fairly, and as in
the sight of God—not hastily or rashly, but as one
who knows the magnitude of the issues, and the vast¬
ness of the responsibility of decision.
Meantime seek not for further evidence ; it will not
be given. We warn you to avoid mixing with other
circles. At your risk do you seek communications
thus. You will but perplex and bewilder yourself, and
render our task more difficult. We will afford you
information on points that may arise; and we do not
absolutely forbid, though we discourage the meeting of
our own circle. We can give no new evidence there,
and, if you meet, it must be with a desire for explana¬
tion, and for the promotion of harmonious intercourse.
We hinted to you long ago that rest and reflection are
needful for you. We now enjoin them on you. If our
circle will meet, we will join them occasionally under
certain conditions, which we will tell you of. But we
discourage any such meetings. You will not be left
alone ; rather you will be doubly guarded. We leave
you with our blessing, and we guard you with our
prayers. May the All-wise guide you! May He
direct you, for you cannot direct yourself.
4- Imperatob,
PSYCHOLOGY AND SPIRITUALISM.
BY WILHAM HITCHMAN, M.R.C.S. (EXG.)
Whatever may be said, sung, or written of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, or the Psychological
Society of Great Britain, not omitting that of Liverpool, the
impartial observer of recent proceedings cannot fail to notice
the striking analogy—rather, perhaps, identity—of certain
natural phenomena, termed Psychology and Spiritualism, in
the pages of The Spiritualist and elsewhere. Comparative
anatomy does not lead to the invariable conclusion that the
operations of mind are essentially associated with the convo¬
lutions of hemispherical ganglia, or nervous vesicles of brain
and spinal cord, either as fine transparent cell-membrane,
containing granular matter and a nucleus, within which are
nucleoli, or other structural elements of grey and white
organic substance, on the integrity of which, in all its atomic
forms and molecular arrangements, depend sensibility, volition,
instinct, reason, and, in mankind, spirituality of soul. The
fibres are said to be tubular or white, and grey or gelatinous,
and best seen in the brains of negroes and porpoises, though
Spurzheim considered them most distinct in the brains of
Englishmen, beyond all other races or tribes of animated
nature, owing to their constant use of other animals, on whose
flesh and blood they mainly subsist! Is nervous tissue the
chief element of psychology and Spiritualism ? and are both
these latter branches of human inquiry resolvable into ques¬
tions pertaining* to fibres, cells, or vesicles? If so, organised
beings descend from inorganic substances absolutely. Albu¬
men is thus the facile princeps of human organisation, men¬
tally and physically, with five parts of fatty constituents and
eighty of water ! Carbonic acid and ammonia, becoming
dissolved in dew and rain of atmospheric changes, are then
absorbed by living vegetables; under the operation of vital
force, which is itself but “ a mode of motion,” molecularly,
carbonic acid, I say, so decomposed, oxygen given off pure to
the air, and carbon, with the elements of water, forming the
structure of each plant—the cycle is complete, from nebula to
nebula, evermore. In a sense, it is obvious that, if Spiritualism
be true, psychology, which repudiates or ignores it, is false,
utterly. Lactantius says—“I have proved for myself that
God sends angels to commune with the souls of men.” (De
orig. Error, ii. 15.) The Hebrew bard sings thus—“ He hath
given his angels charge over thee, that they should keep thee
in all thy ways.” “ They shall bear thee up in their hands,”
&c. (Psalm xoi. 11.) And amongst a variety of other pas¬
sages, David tells us—“ Let the angel of the Lord chase them ”
(Psalm xxxv. 5); ay, persecute, or deliver from danger,
according to the mood or mediumship of the shepherd-king,
and his precise knowledge of psychology, or Spiritualism, in
other words, truth or falsehood.
Psychologists, like anthropologists, have clearly been mis¬
taken in viewing the brains of men and animals as the sole
mechanical or molecular causative agents in all the intellec¬
tual, emotional, and other mental processes, merely from
having found external demonstrative evidence that impres¬
sions and ideas of our spiritual nature require the temporary
aid or co-operation of organic structure. Spiritualism is the
higher psychology, since it proves conclusively, from in-
220
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 7, 1875,
vincible facts and phenomena, now, as heretofore, that the
soul of man, either in the flesh or out of it, is active rather
than acted upon, when it reflects, reasons, deliberates, judges,
pronounces respecting the true and the false, materially, the
right and the wrong—morally, in its own world of spirituality
of intelligence—not without arguments irrefragable and illus¬
trations inexorable, concerning the distinct existence and
future manifestations of that thinking principle which accom¬
panies both matter and spirit. In a.d. 66, Plutarch was a
pupil of the philosopher Ammonius, at Delphi, and he tells
us [De Gen. Socr.) that, as soon as the great and good Athenian
Spiritualist was born, Sophroniscus, his father, consulted the
oracle, and was (by spirit-communion) advised to be no more
solicitous about the welfare of his son, inasmuch as he pos¬
sessed, within and without himself, the controlling guide of
his life, which was better far for him than five hundred
masters of the schools or doctors in' philosophy. Pacts con¬
nected with psychology and Spiritualism in 1875 have been
recorded from the earliest periods of known history. The
influence of the magnetic hand and heart over diseases of the
mortal body, for example, is frequently mentioned by many
Greek and Eoman authors, and, from their times to our own,
has constituted an effective branch of medical science in
various and distant portions of the habitable globe. The
wisdom of Solon, the Grecian lawgiver, was probably never
more conspicuous than in the following verse
The smallest hurts sometimes increase and rage
More than all art of physic can assuage;
Sometimes the fury of the worst disease,
The hand, by gently stroking, will appease.
Asclepiades, moreover, acquired his great reputation as
a physician at Rome, by healing the sick mesmerically, that
is, continued gentle friction of the surface, until each sufferer
fell into sweet sleep, and awoke cured. Tacitus, Suetonius,
the Emperor Vespasian, at Alexandria, Chaldean priests,
Indian Brahmins, the Persi, Jesuit missionaries, Van Helmont,
Sir Kenelm Digby, and a host of learned philosophers in the
fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth centuries, narrate
examples of what are called animal magnetism, and mesmeric
phenomena, interesting alike to the modern Spiritualist and
recent psychologist. Socrates was a trance medium, to all
intents and purposes. Eugubinus (De perenn Philos., 25,
et seq.) confirms the saying of Plato, and others, to the effect
that the great Athenian Spiritualist was guided, when appa¬
rently sleeping, by a good spirit, whereupon the ex-sculptor
was wont; to exclaim, i Now, if it please God, you shall learn
much through me, and the spirit from heaven does not stay
my tongue.” I allege the universal consent of the best
authors rather to the Spiritualism than the psychology of
Socrates; that, in point of fact, he was a medium, and con¬
trolled by a visitor from the world of spirit. To believe other¬
wise, is to question the teaching of the noblest intellects
during ten successive centuries of learning, to ignore the
Spiritualism of ancient and modern times, of which psycho¬
logy can never form the central figure, and last, but not least,
is to join issue with the British National Association of
Spiritualists, and, as a matter of course, the history of
Neander, the philosophy of Marsilio Ficius, Zenophon’s
Memorabilia and Apology for the Spirit of Socrates, Plato’s
Dialogues, &c., not to mention the admirable testimony of
Gibbon and Grote, in their splendidly brilliant narrations of
the most eventful periods of classic Greece and Rome. As a
science or philosophy, unassailable facts in my posses¬
sion psychology, fairly represented, can never reach, and
Spiritualism alone can satisfy the rational impartial soul.
Of what use is psychology without Spiritualism, in the explana¬
tion of the following facts ? I locked Miss Parry, of 142,
Spencer-street, Liverpool, in a scientific cabinet, of my own
special construction, amid the closest possible scrutiny of
intelligent sceptics; nevertheless, both in light and dark rooms,
hands, figures of human forms, and splendid stars, have ap¬
peared, together with musical performances, movements of
heavy bodies without mechanical aid or muscular force of any
person in mortal coil; also, proper answers to philosophical
questions, in different languages Latin, Greek, Hebrew,
French, Italian, and German—(not a syllable of which is
known to the medium herself), independently of trance¬
speaking, voices in the air, delicious fragrance of flowers,
fruit, rappings, and writings. Even more marvellous is the
mediumship of Miss Clark. In presence of Mr. T. Herbert
Noyes, J.P., I have likewise been favoured by unseen intelli¬
gences, with accurate descriptions of the metal osmium, with
chemical details of one of its oxides, its discovery in 1805 by
Tennant, as well as its medicinal properties in various diseases.
In short, I could fill three octavo volumes of true, not false
" facts,” that find no solution in psychology, and belong only
to that higher Spiritualism, which is the last and best gift of
God to man, on earth and in heaven.
A Seance in Dalston.—The rooms of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road,
were crowded on Friday evening last, when a special seance
was given by Mr. Charles E. Williams. Several applicants for
admission had to be reluctantly refused, it being impossible to
accommodate all. The back room was used as a cabinet, one
of the folding-doors being open; a curtain, suspended as a
screen, separated the two rooms. The circle table was placed
against the curtain, in the front room, and some musical in¬
struments, kindly lent for the occasion by Mrs. E, E. Corner,
were placed upon the table. The sitters, twenty-eight in
number, were arranged in rows immediately facing the doors,
while Mr. T. Blyton was seated by the side of the table to the
left of the curtain. Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen was appointed
circle president. Several members were deputed to examine
t^he cabinet before Mr. Williams entered it, and, on their re¬
turn to the front room, he went in and seated himself upon
the sofa. Soon afterwards the lights were put out. In
a short time the various musical instruments were freely
manipulated and carried about the room, touching the ceiling
at times, and at others tapping the heads of various sitters.
Bright star-like lights were observed, and a particularly
luminous one accompanied-the gyrations of the small hand¬
bell, which was evidently carried by a hand. Mr. Blyton
states that while these various manifestations were proceeding
he could distinctly hear Mr. Williams moaning behind the
curtain. Several well-known hymns and anthems were sung,
and eventually the form of John King, with his illuminating
disc, was seen. At times the form was observed to rise
upwards until the turbaned head touched the ceiling, and, in
compliance with requests of several of the sitters, approached
closely to them, and bowed in recognition. John King stated
that there were too many present to favour good manifesta¬
tions. Several members corroborated the statement as to
! hearing Mr. Williams moaning inside the cabinet while John
King was visible to them. It was at last signalled that the
power was exhausted, and the seance was brought to a close.
Spiritualism in the United States.—The Boston
Sunday Herald, which is alleged to have a circulation of
106,000, says in its issue of April 4th: “ There seems to be a
tidal wave in spiritual circles. Adulteration, deception, and
scepticism are as powerless to keep it back as the good Mrs.
Partington with her mop and backet in the case of the invasion
of her domicile by the Atlantic ocean. From all points and
quarters come crowding reports, seemingly well attested, of
supermundane manifestations, and the brethren and sisters,
strong in the faith of the new philosophy, are fain to believe
that another pentecostal season is at hand. In Boston, meet¬
ings and circles of Spiritualists multiply, and are nightly
crowded, while reliable test mediums find their time fully
occupied by those seeking for a sign of life and identity beyond
the vale. Those who suppose these inquirers to be restricted
to the illiterate and ignorantly credulous, labour under a mis¬
take ; for while it is true that the faith in spirit intercourse
largely prevails, as always heretofore, among the simple-minded
and unsophisticated, it is scarcely less true of men and women
of intelligence, education and discriminating judgment, who,,
however, are more reticent and less disposed to proclaim the
faith which they entertain. Indeed, not a few firm believers
in the phenomena studiously avoid revealing their belief for
fear of losing social and religious caste, well knowing that they
would hazard their positions as members of evangelical
churches by a frank avowal of their convictions. If some of
the good ministers and deacons of Boston could get a clair¬
voyant glimpse of the * spook roosts ’ in nightly blast here¬
abouts, they would be astonished to see how some members of
their folds spend their evenings. The London Spiritualist
tells how the spirit of the sister of Prince "Wittgenstein mani¬
fested to him while her body was in a trance; how the spirit
of a mesmeric sensitive left her body and produced physical
effects in a house at a distance, as authenticated by Mr. Fitz¬
Gerald, the electrician; how one sleeping person influenced
another, and how the spirits of several entranced persons were
photographed. Mr. Cooper, a pioneer English Spiritualist now
in this country, has recently returned to Boston from a pro¬
tracted visit to the Eddys, where he was more than confirmed
in his belief of the wonderful powers of those mediums.”
May 7, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
221
THE “ COMING MAN.”
The late Eev. James Smith, who in his day did
much in a quiet way to advance the cause of Spirit¬
ualism, wrote a book entitled The Coming Man* con¬
sisting of brilliant essays, not so well known to Spirit¬
ualists as should be the case. As editor of The Family
Herald, Mr. Smith kept his readers acquainted with all
that was going on in mesmerism and clairvoyance. His
articles and his famous Ij answers to correspondents”
contained more or less every week concerning matters
supramundane, ancient and modern. And when, after
1848, what is specially known as Spiritualism came to
the front, he as systematically and jrcrsistently gave its
facts and philosophy the advantage of publicity in his
widely-read journal. And yet more. He was practi¬
cally editor of The Spiritual Herald, a sixpenny monthly,
published by Bailliere in 1856 at the cost of Mr. Theo¬
dore Fawcett. There was not then a public to support
such a magazine, and only six or seven numbers ap¬
peared. Smith’s advocacy of Spiritualism was by no
means anonymous. Mr. Wm. White informs us that he
remembers hearing him in 1856 relate his expefiences
with unflinching simplicity and courage before a scep¬
tical audience assembled in the Mechanics’ Institution,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane. Worn out with
study, he died early in 1857, and we lost our earliest
and most accomplished champion.
MRS. HARDY’S YISIT TO ENGLAND.
Mbs. Hardy, a celebrated American medium, well recom¬
mended by the Banner of Light, will leave Boston to-morrow
en route for England. At her seances a box, with an aperture
in it, is placed over an opening in a table ; a cloth is thrown
over the whole and nailed to the floor, to give partial darkness
under the table. Mrs. Hardy sits with the other spectators in
the light, and materialised spirit hands and arms come out of
the aperture in the box.
. The Dalstoh Association- of - Spiritualists.—The
Banner of Light of April 17th, informs its readers of Mr.
J. J. Morse having gratefully accepted the complimentary
offer of honorary membership of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism. The same paper adds that the
Association has just added to the scope of its former labours
a new section for the investigation of the claims and uses of
mesmerism. At the ensuing ordinary monthly meeting of the
Council of the Dalston Association, fixed for the 13th instant,
the desirability of changing the day of the ordinary weekly
meetings will be considered. Members are desired to express
their views on this point, and communicate the same, in
writing, to the honorary secretary, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
on or before the 12th instant.
The Bazaar.'—The articles made or contributed by
ladies and other friends to the coming bazaar of the National
Association of Spiritualists will for the most part be useful in
character and moderate in price. The Banner of Light (Bos¬
ton, U.S.) of April 24th says:—“A bazaar is to be held in
London on the 26th, 27th, and 28th of May, to partially clear
the expenses of furnishing the public Beading-room, Council
Chamber, and new premises of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists. The rooms of this great national organi¬
sation have been very handsomely and comfortably fitted up.
We see by The Spiritualist newspaper that friends from all
parts of the world are volunteering aid in the matter, the
Baroness Adelma Yay having even sent contributions of money
aqd goods from distant Austria. If celebrated American
authors and mediums would present a few dozen copies each
of their photographic portraits to the Bazaar Committee, they
would doubtless be received with pleasure, and bought by
many of the chief English Spiritualists who will attend.”
* London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-Lane,
Mr. John Collier, Spiritualistic lecturer of Birmingham,
has accepted a permanent engagement at Springfield, Mass., U.S.
Large Importation of American Books on Spirit¬
ualism.—We have entered into business relations with Messrs.
Colby and Rich, of the Banner of Light, Boston, the result
being that regular supplies of the chief American works on
Spiritualism will be kept on sale at the Branch Office of The
Spiritualist newspaper, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
A great number of books has already reached Liverpool, and
will be obtainable in London either to-morrow or on Monday.
The titles and prices of a few of them will be found in our
advertising columns, but a much longer list will be pub¬
lished next week. The arrivals include all the works of A. J.
Davis, William Denton, and Hudson Tuttle, which can be had
in complete sets if ordered at once. Colonel Olcott’s People
from the Other World, illustrated with sixty engravings of the
seances and home of the Eddy brothers, and of the tests
recently applied to Mrs. Holmes, is among the books in
the list.
The National Association Library.—The following
additions have been made to the library during the past
weekWhat am I ? and Heredity and Hybridism, presented
by Mr. Serjeant Cox; La Realitddes Esprits: Guldenstubbe; and
four copies of Pensees d'outre Tombe, presented by Mr. A. J. Riko,
of the Hague ; Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spintualism, and
Crookes’ Phenomena of Spiritualism, presented by Mr. T.
Slater; Emma Hardinge’s Modern American Spiritualism,
presented by Mr. B. Coleman. The following have been
lent by Mr. S. Chinnery: D. D. Home’s Incidents in My
Life; Mrs. Crowe’s Ghost Stories; A. R. Craig’s Book of the
Hand; Des Mousseaux’s Mazurs des Demons; A. J. Davis’
Stellar Key; S. Jackson’s Heinrich Stilling; R. D. Owen’s
Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World; Levi’s Dogme de
la haute Magie ; La Magie noire; Des Mousseaux’s La Magie
au dix-neuvieme Siecle, and Mediateurs de la haute Magie;
Edmonds’ Spiritualism and Sacred Circle ; Mrs. Crowe’s Night
Side of Nature; Beamish’s Psychonomy of the Hand; Nichols’
Biography of the Brothers Davenport; Swedenborg’s Heaven
and Hell; Drayson’s Earth vie Inhabit; Emma Hardinge’s
Modern American Spiritualism; and F. Rowan’s Meditations
\ on Death and Eternity.
A Seance with Mr. Bastian.—Mr. W. H. Harrison
saysThrough the kindness of Mr. Ronalds and Messrs.
Bastian and Taylor, last Tuesday evening I attended their
private seance for the materialisation of full spirit forms,
through the mediumship of Mr. Harry Bastian, at 2, Vernon-
place, Bloomsbury, W.C. A bedroom was used as a cabinet,
and a few of the spectators offered themselves as a committee
to examine it, and to take precautions that no persons should
enter by doors or windows while the seance was going on. Mr.
Bastian was next left alone for a time in the room, after
which the committee were asked in, and said they found him
bound in an elaborate and secure manner to the bedstead.
They then sealed some of the knots, after which they rejoined
the other spectators. The amount of light was that given by
a single gas burner, with the flame turned down till it was the
size of a pea and of a bluish colour, surrounded by a glass gas
globe. I tried to distinguish the figures on my watch by the
light, and could not, and during the whole evening did not see
any of the features of any of the spirits, except that once I
thought I saw part of a nose. Four or five forms, differently
draped, came out in the course of the evening, and in most
cases ,said they were related to persons present; one
young lady who was much excited, and who quickly passed
into a trance, said that she recognised her grandmother, and
that she had on gold spectacles. Mr. Bastian bears a very
good name as a medium, and these are no doubt the incipient
stages of a most interesting class of manifestations, which
will grow stronger and bear more light, if carefully developed
under favourable conditions. They are good enough to de¬
serve presentation to the public under better tests, for since
the visit of the Holmeses to this country, a general feeling has
grown among experienced Spiritualists, that as a matter of
duty to the cause and to the public, materialisation seances on
the premises of professional mediums should not be endorsed
by the movement, however honourable the medium, unless
simple and properly constructed cabinets are used, instead of
bedrooms. Mr. Crookes was present last week at a face seance
with Mr. Bastian on the same premises, but has not published
the results of his observations. Mr. Bastian gets interesting
manifestations of various kinds, which apparently deserve
more attention than they have received at the hands of Lon¬
don Spiritualists.
222
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 7, 1875.
THE WRITING MEDIUMSHIP OF A BABY.
BY HENKY D. JENCKEN, BAEETSTEE-AT-LA.W.
I think it may interest you to be furnished with the
particulars of the remarkable fact of writing by a medial
child only nine days old. To me the corroborative
evidence furnished by Baron Seymour Kirkup is of
exceptional interest; for you may recollect that I pub¬
lished last year an account of what had happened in
my own home, the writing medium being my little boy,
then only five months and a few days old. The letter
to me from Baron Kirkup, of Leghorn, furnishing the
interesting information, is accompanied by photographs
of the writing, the procks verbal of the witnesses, seven
in number, and a very beautiful photograph of the
spirit form of the baby’s grandmother, the well-known
,f Regina.” We have in this instance medial powers
descending from mother to daughter and grand¬
daughter—facts opposed to the theory which I ventured
to suggest in the paper I read at the Ralston Institute
of Spiritualists, that mediumship does not belong to
families, that it comes and goes, governed by laws we as
yet but little understand. The letter of Baron Kirkup,
so far as it bears upon the facts I am dealing with, is
as follows:—
“My daughter was a medium when two years old,
and saw spirits; she is now twenty-one, and Tier
daughter was a writing medium at nine days old. T have
preserved her letter, and will send you a photograph.
Four spirits had promised to make the infant write to
enforce some advice they had given me. It was a
seven-months’ child, and smaller than usual. Her
mother held it on a cushion on her arm, and in the
other hand a large book, with a sheet of paper on it;
a pencil was put into the child’s hand by an invisible
agent, and Yalentina (the child) held it dagger-fashion.
It first wrote the initials of the four spirits, viz., R. A.
D. I., when the pencil was dropped, and I thought it
was over. The spirits were Regina, Annias, Dante,
and Isacco. My daughter Imogen (called Bibi) ex¬
claimed “ She has got the pencil again,” and she wrote
in a rambling manner over the former writing these
words, ‘ Non mutare questa e buona prova fai cosa ti
abbiamo detto addio” You will distinguish it all in
the photograph. I likewise made a 'procks verbal, which
I send you. The child went into the country the next
day, by advice of the spirits, to nurse, but we sent for
her back again to try for a photograph, as I knew a
medium photographist. We went to him, and I tried
to make the child take the pencil, but she threw it
away, and I send you the portrait as it is, with the
child not writing, but it contains the figure of the child’s
grandmother, the famous Regina, who died twenty
years ago at the age of nineteen, a perfect likeness,
but too dark, owing to transparency over a dark ground.
Bibi is very like, and the infant too.”
I cannot conceal that the particulars stated in the
letter have given me unfeigned pleasure. Whenever
new facts arise, startling in their nature, it is but
natural that doubts should be suggested : the repetition
only of them, under different circumstances, can lift an
isolated fact into the nature of an accepted truth. In¬
fantine writing is of so rare occurrence, that any well-
authenticated record is of value. Apart, however,
from the unusual character of these phenomena, they
merit earnest attention. Certainly the brain cerebra¬
tion and the psychic theories do not aid us in under¬
standing the laws which regulate their production.
The thoughts of a child nine days, or even five months,
old, could not be its thoughts, if possessed of faculties
which onlymaturer age an da higher state of development
can command. Who, then, influenced the hand of the
baby child ? No other theory, indeed, solves the
difficulty save that of a spiritual, intelligent being
operating through the instrumentality of the hand and
nervous system of the child, controlling the motor
nerves of the infant, and producing the writing. If
through the instrumentality of your valuable journal
public attention was drawn to the importance of other
instances being known, I feel # certain that valuable
facts, corroborative of those I have not hesitated to
place before the public, will be furnished to you.
PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
ARBEST OP M. LEYMARIE, M. BUGUET, AND MR. FIRMAN.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist”
Sib,—Great events have happened in Paris since my last
letter. Leymarie, Buguet, and Firman were arrested last
Thursday week, all on the same charge of swindling in photo¬
graphy. Firman has had nothing whatsoever to do with the
photographic business. Leymarie has had a great deal to do
with it as editor of the Revue Spirite; for every month there
appeared in it a photograph, and something written in com¬
mendation of Buguet’s mediumship. But if there has been
any deception, M. Leymarie has been imposed upon in com¬
mon with every one else. The worst of it is, that this im¬
prisonment is not merely a temporary inconvenience for four-
and-twenty hours, for it has already lasted more than a week,
and I am told the preliminary examination demands many
more days yet, during which time not even their wives will be
allowed to visit them.
The result of this inquiry one would think and hope will be
the discharge of the two innocent victims. I have spoken to
the judge who has charge of the case. He tells me that Fir¬
man is evidently an accomplice of Buguet, because he sent
people to him. A few days before the arrest an agent of police
came to Firman’s apartment, and requested him to photograph
him with a spirit. Firman very naturally expressed surprise
at his coming to him for that purpose, as he was not a photo¬
grapher, and told him that he had better go to Buguet; and
this is what is called “ sending people to Buguet.” The judge
also informed me that, although the charge against Firman
was with reference to the photography, the expose at Dr.
Huguet’s would be gone into. This is an utterly groundless
and unjust accusation. To those who try the case, and nearly
every one’else in France, the fact of seizing and retaining
material stuff is sufficient proof of imposture. Those who
know anything about these materialisations know that it is no
proof at all, as spirits who come in this manner have always a
covering round them, which can at any time be snatched from
them by any one so violently disposed.
This imprisonment is a most unfortunate occurrence, as it
prevents the vindication seances we were about to give. We
have had some very satisfactory instances of showing medium
and spirit at the same time. Nothing short of that is of any
use, and even seeing the two at once will not, I believe, carry
conviction to the sceptical French mind. M. Chav6e, a well-
known and highly respected savant, has been giving a course
of lectures on psychology. I thought that a gentleman who
had made this subject his study for many years ought to have
an opportunity of seeing a materialised spirit, especially as he
affirmed there could be no such thing. I invited him to a
seance, when he saw, handled, and conversed with Kibosh.
The medium on this occasion went into the cabinet in his
shirt sleeves; it so happened that, upon the disappearance of
the spirit, the medium woke up and walked out, before ten
seconds had elapsed. The cabinet was immediately searched,
and no trace of Kibosh’s extensive paraphernalia was discover¬
able. M. Chavee told me afterwards that he knew it was the
medium dressed up, and finished his next lecture by lamenting
that such bare-faced imposition should be tolerated. It so
happens that there was no imposition at all in the matter,
and M. Chavee has really seen what he says is impossible—a
materialised spirit. J. N. Gledstanes.
Paris, May 2nd, 1875.
May 7, 1875,
223
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE DESTINY OP THE SOUL.
The brain is not the solitary throne
Of that transcendent mystery, the Soul!
Psychology in no uncertain tone
Declares that it must permeate the whole
Of this our mortal frame—since flesh and bone
Form but its vestment, which it casts away
When pallid death has snapt the golden zone
That links the spirit to the grosser clay.
The Soul is Self! and when we come to die,
We issue from the body, and shall know
That we are spirits—free to scale the sky
Or flash at will through boundless space; although
Our own identity will haunt us still,
And every ardent hope we cherished here,
And every bias or for good or ill,
We shall transfer to that sublimer sphere.
There will be no forgetting! Clearly we
Shall then recall our life below the skies ;
And pre-existence (if such marvel be!)
Will then unseal its shadowy mysteries.
Endued with rarer powers we shall gain
Fresh wisdom through the ages, till we see
The last bright link of that progressive chain,
And merge at length in perfect Deity!
F. B. Doveton.
(Eomsponneuce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of inis journal and its readers.]
CREDULITY AND INCREDULITY.
Sib,—Perhaps the following explanations of the various
methods, whereby spiritualistic mediums are supposed to im¬
pose on the public, may instruct, amuse, or bewilder some of
your readers.
Most of these explanations were given many years ago, not
in joke, but in sober seriousness, as wise discoveries, when the
wonders of Mr. Home’s mediumship first came before the
public.
These are to be found in the first volume of that gentle¬
man’s extremely interesting work, entitled Incidents in my
Life. Some of the other explanations I have occasionally
heard brought forward by people who are considered to
possess more than average ability in their respective pro¬
fessions and pursuits, but who also illustrate how easily
boasted incredulity may pass into a state of ludicrous cre¬
dulity.
The following list contains, I think, nearly all the wise
objections that have hitherto been advanced ; but doubtless
human ingenuity may be capable of startling us with still
wiser discoveries.
1. A very popular idea is, or was, that the male medium
carries in his pocket a trained monkey, and that the female
medium conceals that intelligent animal under her dress.
2. Some think that the legs of most mediums are so formed
as to be capable of elongation, and that their feet are like the
hands of a baboon.
3. Many people suppose that when a medium is invited to
a strange house the table has to be sent first, and that he
takes with him wax or gutta percha hands and arms to show
at the proper moment.
4. Some suppose that the medium mesmerises or biologises
his audience, and that the latter only imagine they see what
they see.
5. Some are supposed to carry lazy-tongs and a magic
lantern.
6. When the medium is levitated and rises in the air, it is
only a balloon filled with gas in the shape of a man.
7. Some say the phenomena are produced by “ involuntary
muscular action,” or “unconscious cerebration,” or “reflex
action of the mind,” or by psychic or od force, or by some
other force,—a remarkably safe conclusion.*
8. A common explanation of certain phenomena is that
they are to be attributed to ventriloquism, and that some
mediums have electric batteries concealed about their persons.
9. Mechanical contrivances, attached to the lower extremi¬
ties, were suggested by one of the first philosophers of the day,
but I never heard of their being actually discovered.
10. The rappings are said to be produced in many ways,
* Only the force is well up in arithmetic, can make good puns, and talk
bad science.—Ed.
beginning low down with the snapping of the toe-joint, then
getting up to the ankle, then to the knee or thigh-bones.
This rather uncomfortable idea—not a little suggestive of
permanent dislocation—was, I believe, first broached by a
distinguished American medical gentleman, and I much
regret that my ignorance of osteology prevents my attempting
to refute this very ingenious theory.
Unfortunately for No. 10, the rappings are frequently heard
at a distance from the medium—from the walls, ceiling, and
staircase ; so we must suppose that the above-named several
joints are endowed with some power analogous to “ ventrilo¬
quism.”
11. Some say the medium bribes the servants at the houses
he visits, that they may aid him in concealing the machinery.
12. Others say that the mediums, even when they happen to
be very young people—nay, even children—are accomplished
ventriloquists, and gifted with conjuring talents that surpass
the ingenuity of Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke, with all their
practice and experience.
13. Then comes the wonderful piece of machinery which, I
was once gravely told, explained how I was hoaxed, when a
hand, either materialised or, as the sceptics say, composed of
wax or gutta percha, unbuttoned my coat, extracted my spec¬
tacles and case from the side pocket, placed the spectacles on
the nose of an astonished unbeliever sitting at the other side
of the table, and finally deposited the case on the knee of
another innocent investigator.
I now find that the machine theory has lately collapsed,
mechanical contrivances, I presume, being found too cumbrous
and expensive for most mediums.
14. The last—the most scientific and ingenious theory or
explanation—was, according to Mr. Home, given by an old
woman in America, who, when asked if she could account for
what she had seen, replied, “ Lor, sirs! it is easy enough:
they only rubs themselves all over with a gold pencil case.”
One might reap considerable amusement by gravely urging a
few of the above explanations on some of our sceptical friends,
just to see what an enormous amount of credulity is some¬
times hidden under the mask of incredulity.
Some sceptics are fond of charging Spiritualists, or believers
in mesmerism and clairvoyance, with excessive credulity, not
seeing that those believers have ample warrant for retorting
the charge upon their opponents; and this, I think, will be
evident to any impartial and candid observer who has ever
listened to the arguments of certain sceptics and their curious
explanations of phenomena, the causes of which may possibly
never in this world be quite satisfactorily explained.
May I venture to suggest to such sceptics the two following
questions for their consideration : “ Which is the greater evil,
excessive credulity or excessive incredulity ?” and then, “ What
is the difference between the two?”
In conclusion, I would draw attention to the following re¬
marks made and advice given by Archbishop Whately, taken
from his annotations on “Bacon’s Essays”—subject Atheism :
“ Bacon, in one of his essays, says, ‘ I had rather believe all
the fables in the legend, and the Talmud, and the Alcoran, than
that this universal frame is without a mind.’ ”
The Archbishop’s annotation on the above is as follows :—
“It is evident from this that Bacon had seized the just view
respecting credulity, seeing plainly that to disbelieve is to be¬
lieve. If one man believes that there is a God, and another
that there is no God, whichever holds the least reasonable of
these two opinions is chargeable with credulity. For the only
way to avoid credulity and incredulity, the two necessarily
going together, is to listen to the best evidence, and to believe
and disbelieve on good grounds. J. J.
Tottenham.
INTERNAL RESEIRATION—NO. IY.
Sib,—In Nos. 81, 89, and 125 of The Spiritualist I have
endeavoured to illustrate the above subject with regard to (1)
its physical phenomena; (2) its spiritual phenomena; and (3)
the Scriptural proofs thereof. In this, my final paper, I
purpose to refute the attacks which have from time to time
been made upon Harris and his work.
These charges I may divide into four headings—(1) Previous
and present supposed or real failures; (2) Errors in his works
which result either from misprints or from human fallibility ;
(3) False prophecies attributed to him; and (4) Misunder¬
standings of the meaning of his works.
I. Failures.—The first charge which I shall mention under
this heading is that he formerly established a community at
Mountain Cove which ended in failure; hence it has been
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 7,-1875,
224
argued his present society may equally fail, which would show
that he is not as he imagines under Divine guidance. But it
must not be thought that a man is infallible because he has
inner breathing, or that he cannot fail; and even if the
Brooton Society came to grief it would only show that a
sufficient number of men had not yet become perfected in
internal breathing. But in fact the two cases are quite
different. Harris acknowledges (Ar. Ch. i. 794) that he was
once deceived by spirits, as many mediums are in the present
day, and doubtless the Mountain Cove failure was a case in
point. But it will be asked, “ Where are we to draw the line ?
if deceived once, why not again?” I answer that inner
breathing affords the line of demarcation. Now for the proof.
An account of the Mountain Cove failure is given by Mrs.
Hardinge in her History of Modern American Spiritualism.
Any one who cares to wade through the dreary pages of that
voluminous work will find the whole account at pp. 58-60, and
207-17; the latter pages having the sensational and truly
Yankee but slightly incomprehensible heading of “ How the
Apostolic Brotherhood grew from a circumference back to a
centre; how the centre burst and vanished into thin air;
how it gathered itself up again and grew beyond its own
centre and circumference, and soared away beyond itself;
how Mr. Charles Partridge brought it back to earth again
until it found its level.” Whether this account (evidently
an unfriendly one) is accurate or not, 1 neither know
nor care; it is sufficient that it contains all the data I
want. In this account we find that Harris joined the
“ Apostolic Brotherhood ” about the commencement of 1850
(p. 59). In October, 1851, this brotherhood removed to Mountain
Cove, under the guidance of Mr. Scott, not of Harris (p. 210).
At p. 216, we read that the community broke up in about two
years. This brings us to the beginning of 1852. Mr.
Brotherton, in his pamphlet on Spiritualism, Swedenborg, and
the New Church, published October, 1860, says (pp. 55, 56)
that inner breathing commenced in Harris seven to eight
years ago. Therefore, taking the fullest extent of eight years,
Harris’s inner breathing commenced about October, 1852, or
some months after the Mountain Cove failure. In addition to
this, we have only to look at the difference between the spiritual
origins of the two movements, to see that they have no con¬
nection with each other. In the Mountain Cove business Harris
blindly accepted the teachings of spirits given through mes¬
merised subjects, and hence was deceived easily by them ; now
he most emphatically protests against the practice of allowing
oneself to be controlled or made a slave by spirits, and points
out the danger of endeavouring to produce the mesmeric
sleep for the purpose of clairvoyance (Ar. Chr. i., 480, 481).
But it has also been urged that his present society has failed
to effect much, and that it is only a form of monasticism.
With regard to the first charge, it can only have originated
from those who had never visited Brocton. I have now lying
before me a letter from a medical friend who visited Brocton
in 1873, and he says that “ all was most prosperous, but
peaceful and quiet; none of the boast or disturbing elements
of ordinary society. Every one seemed kind and obliging,
and truly* loving and affectionate; none desirous of being
before or after another, but all was harmonious.” One
of the brotherhood there also informed him that it had been a
most excellent investment in a pecuniary sense. With regard
to the charge of monastioism, it is nothing of the sort. A
monastery is a place where people are secluded from the
world, without the power to leave of their own free will, and
they are intended to remain there all their lives. At Brocton
all is freedom; any one who is dissatisfied may leave; a large
portion of the Brotherhood of the New Life have never been,
and possibly never will be there; others reside there only for
a time. On' this subject I will quote from two letters from
Brocton, written some years ago. - One says, “ The open
breathers at Wassaic (the seat of the society prior to removing
to Brocton) number nineteen; many have left, and gone out
into the world to perform their different uses.” The other
says,—“ The home at Wassaic is regarded as a training
school for open breathing, for those who need help and in¬
struction, but not as a fixed abode, nor for those whose uses
in the world preclude their living in that way.”
II.—Errors in Harris’s Writings Arising from Misprints or
Human Fallibility.—The first passage to which exception has
been taken was brought before my notice some years ago by a
Swedenborgian minister, well known for his strong antipathy
to Harris’s writings. It is contained in Ar. Chr. i. 36, where
we read that the Egyptian sorcerers “ produced lice from the
dust of the earth.” Oil referring to the account in Exodus,
however, we find that they wfere not able to do this. With
regard to this matter, my friend Mr. Thomas Eobinson, of
Manchester, says in a letter to me, dated October 17th, 1868,
“ I was present in 1859 when some friends put the question to
Harris, and he said he did not know that it was as it is till
friends in America pointed it out. ‘But,’ said he, ‘ I am glad it
is there : it serves to show at what trifles people are disposed
to catch,’ or words to that effect. He added that it was a
mistake of the compositor.” So, after all, this awful mistake
turns out not to have originated with Harris, but to have been
one of the devices of the devil—the printer’s devil I mean, of
course. Parturiunt monies, nascetur ridiculus mus! There are
several other misprints in Harris’s writings, which his
enemies are quite welcome to make the most of. Thus in
Ar. Chr. i. 259 the word light should evidently be night; in
i. 807 the word internal should, I think, be external; in iii.
747 the word Thyatira is obviously a misprint for Philadelphia.
It is, indeed, a wonder that Harris’s opponents have not
accused him of not understanding Latin, because in a conver¬
sation with an evil spirit (reported iii. 219) the ungrammati¬
cal phrase cpntraria contraribus occurs! But which of the
“ devils” made the mistake here, the printer’s or the other
one, I will leave them to find out. Another charge, which
also emanated from a Swedenborgian source, is, that Harris
has, when speaking in his own person, made mistakes. Thus
in i. 182 he confounds the words Mourir pour la patrie with
the Marseillaise, and in iii. 794 states that George Fox per¬
formed an action at Taunton which really occurred, I am told,
at some other town—I think Lichfield. They might also have
added that in iii. 431 the answer of Christ to the Sadducees
is confounded with that to the women at the well. But what
does all this prove ? Nothing, save that Harris is only a
man, and therefore fallible, and that what he says of himself
must be carefully kept distinct from what he claims to have
received by Divine inspiration.
III. —We now come to the charge of False Prophecies, which
also proceeds from a Swedenborgian source. The minister to
whom I have previously alluded says, in a letter dated June
24th, 1868, that Harris taught that the bodies of the wicked
were to be burnt up about five years after the publication of
the 1st vol. of Ar. Chr., i.e., in 1863. In a subsequent letter
he stated that he was certain that his statement was correct,
and that it was in Ar. Chr. that the statement was made, and
promised to refer to the work and verify his quotation. More
than six years have now elapsed, but he has neither verified
his quotation (for the excellent reason that it only existed in
his own. imagination), nor has he had the honesty to with¬
draw the charge. In 1871 I was engaged in a controversy
about Harris in the Intellectual Repository, the chief Sweden¬
borgian journal in England. In the Dec. number, pp. 699,
600, the editor winds up with some remarks, chiefly consisting
of arguments which had been adduced and refuted in the con¬
troversy itself. But he also brings against Harris the same
old charge of false prophecies on the same subject. I wrote
to know the chapter and verse of this imaginary prediction,
and, in reply, received the following answer:—“ I do not
know that the prediction is contained .in any of JHarris’s pub¬
lished works. According to my information, it was uttered
in a sermon he preached at Glasgow, a good many years ago,
and which he then said would happen within two years.” So,
after all, this second version of the charge (which the reader
will see does not agree in details with the first) rests only on
hearsay evidence. I need scarcely say that Harris never
uttered any such prophecy at all, either in his sermons or his
published works.
IV. —We now come to the last charges made against Harris,
viz., those made through misunderstanding of his teachings
and work. I do not intend to enter into the scandalous accu¬
sations which have been from time to time brought against
his conduct, such as the charge that he appropriates to his
own use the property of the other members of the society;
that he sent away his wife, having formed an attachment to
another lady; that it was not safe for an unprotected female
to reside at Brocton, &c. These and similar charges have
been made against him, and, though refuted, have been [raked
up again; for venomous reptiles are generally tenacious of life.
Those who care to read them will find complete refutations of
these charges in the Spiritual Magazine, 1869, p. 282; the
New Church Independent, 1869, p. 66 ; Eobinson’s Recipient,
vol. ii. pp. 510 and 556, and vol. iii. p. 325 ; and in a letter
by myself at p. 120 of vol. iii. of the Christian Spiritualist. I
do not care to waste time in refuting them again ; suffice it to
say that I know that they are false; and I also know that one
source of these calumnies was a person who was dismissed
from the society, and another was the family of a young man
THE SPIHITUALIST.
225
May 7, 1875.
whom Harris openly reproved for gross immorality. Leaving
these charges, then, I will proceed to the examination of mis-
understood passages in Harris’s writings. In the Spiritual
Magazine for 1868, Nos. 1, 2, and 3, we find three articles on
Harris’s writings, which there receive a considerable amount of
abuse, and Harris himself is called (p. 74) a “ poetical and
religious maniac, with brief lucid intervals.” These are supple¬
mented by a paper of a similar nature in the January number
for 1869. Any one who wishes to see all that can be said
against Harris will find it in these volumes; but if they turn
out to be all based on error, all readers who are not poetical
and religious, or even Spiritualistic maniacs, can arrive at but
one conclusion. The first charge is at p. 5 of the Spiritual
Magazine for 1868, where the writer says—“ Harris’s poems,
the Lyric of the Golden Age and Lyric of the Morning
Land, were, according to his own statements, dictated by
the spirits of Byron, Shelley, Keats, Pollok, &c. Now every
one of these spirits, according to Mr. Harris’s present
belief, and, indeed, a belief which he held when he visited
and lectured in London in 1861, are devils and impudent
deceivers.” The critic proceeds to say that, in spite of
this belief, Harris allowed the sale to go on at the doors
of his own lecture-room just the same. In answer to this
I reply (1) that the Lyric of the Morning Land was not
dictated by the spirits of Byron, &c., and these poets are not
even mentioned in it; this statement, therefore, only shows
the ignorance of the reviewer; (2) that Harris never said that
these poems were dictated by devils, nor has he ever with¬
drawn or repudiated them; on the contrary, he says in his
greatest work, the Arcana of Christianity, that this work was
received from the lyrical Heaven; (3) in 1870 he stated
his intention to reprint these works when the time came,
and correct the various typographical errors. The only part
which he repudiates is the preface to these works, which
was written by a Spiritualist, and prefixed to the work by the
publishers to whom the work was sold during Harris’s absence
from New York. (The letter itself is given in No. 89 of The
Spiritualist, where also I have entered more fully into this
question.) The next charge in this Magazine is that the
poems given by Harris in the Song of Satan are blasphemous.
Indeed he says : ” In no work that has come under our ob¬
servation is the practice of every sensuality and every blas¬
phemy inculcated with more Satanic recklessness than is this
volume.” But what does this mean ? If it means that
Harris inculcates blasphemy and sensuality, then the assertion
is the foulest libel that was ever penned against him; but if
it only means that the evil spirits taught these doctrines,
what then ? Did the reviewer expect them to talk like clergy¬
men on the subject ? The work is a valuable one, for it shows
the devils as they are at home; and if it contains their evil
utterances, it also contains their own confessions of the fearful
sufferings into which their evils lead them. On this subject I
will quote from p. 9 of'this work, where Harris says : “ This
spirit who sings the glories of progression, and pours contempt
upon the Word, is also the same who, as his true interior
character more and more developes itself, stands out in naked,
bold malignity. His sufferings, by his own confession, are
fearful to endure, and terrible to narrate, while he takes an
insane delight in painting to uninstructed minds {query—the
mediums of the present day ?] the exalted joys and the divine
felicities Jof the spiritual existence which he possesses.” I
would advise every medium to read this work with care, that
he may know the true state of evil spirits, and ask himself
what test he has for discriminating between good spirits and
devils clothed as angels of light.
Following on the review, we find at p. 15 of the Magazine
another proof of the ignorance of the critic. He tells us,
“ As Swedenborg chiefly took in hand Genesis, Harris has
undertaken the Revelations.” I should have thought that
any one who presumed to write about Harris or Swedenborg
would have known that the latter wrote on Exodus also, and
that both have written on Genesis and the Apocalypse. This
error again shows the reviewer’s unfitness for the task he has
taken upon himself.
A third extraordinary blunder now comes before us. The
reviewer says of internal breathing—“ We hold it to be a
universal and inalienable function of every living soul, not
the capriciously bestowed boon which Harris represents. We
are persuaded that no living spirit could continue to live with¬
out spiritual breath, any more than an animated physical
body can exist without breathing physical air, &e.” To this
the answer is obvious. Harris speaks of a certain spiritual
breathing, which only a certain number at present possess ;
hence, whatever spiritual breathing all may possess, that of
which Harris writes is something different and additional.
The difference between the two I have mentioned in my first
paper, in No. 81 of The Spiritualist; and all this might have
been found out even by the reviewer, had he read the chapters
from the Ar. Chr. published in The Herald of Light, vol. v.
Suffice it to say that people in general do not present the
phenomena of inner breathing recorded in my first paper,
which alone is a proof that the critic is wrong, and does not
understand the subject on which he is writing.
The February number of the Spiritual Magazine ior 1868
contains a review of The Great Republic, containing a great many
sneering remarks about Harris, which are too silly and pal¬
pably erroneous to be seriously refuted. In the March 'number,
however, we find a third attack on Harris. We here find
again the utterly erroneous statement that the Lyric of the
Morning Land was dictated by Byron and others, to which I
have already referred. Then follow some extracts from the
preface to the Lyric of the Golden Age, which the reviewer
says was “written by the friends already alluded to, and
under the immediate inspection and sanction of Mr. Harris
himself.” I will again say that this preface was not
“written under the immediate inspection and sanction”
of Harris, but was printed with the work during Harris’s
absence. Harris repudiates the preface altogether, and re¬
quested Mr. John Thomson, the publisher of his works
in Great Britain, not to bind jit up with his reprint of the
work, as it was calculated to misrepresent his teaching. Next
we come to a beautiful spiritual vision which Harris had of
the death of his first wife, which occurred about 1856. The
reviewer actually asks us to believe that Harris now believes
that even this vision was from hell. It is utterly untrue.
Harris never said anything of the sort. He acknowledges
that he was deceived by demons once, but he has never said
he was so in this case, or indeed tsince he received inner
breathing in 1852-3.
The last series of charges to which I need refer are to be
found in the Spiritual Magazine for January, 1869, in a paper
written by a clergyman of the Church of England. I need
not refute them at length: some of them I have answered
before in this paper; others need no answer. I will only
quote three assertions to prove how recklessly assertions are
made without the slightest proof, and how little real know¬
ledge of Harris’s works his would-be critics possess. 1. The
writer says of Harris’s Great Republic, “ It takes a false and
exaggerated account of human evil. No human being is or
can be so thoroughly and abominably wicked as the Jews are
described to be.” To this I answer that the Jews are not
mentioned at all in the above work. 2. The writer says,
“ There is a great deal of revolting sensualism in the book.
Subjects of delicacy are treated in a manner at once un¬
seemly and shocking.” This is untrue. There is not a single
passage in the Great Republic that the critic himself would
hesitate to read aloud to the most prudish old maid amongst
his acquaintances, not even if they should include the celebrated
lady who fainted because the preacher spoke of the “ naked
truth.” When Harris does speak in his other works on
“ subjects of delicacy,” he does it in a way that can be un¬
derstood by those who need such advice. I am sure that a
great deal of the immorality which prevails among the young
is due to the fact that their parents are ashamed to explain
to their offspring the laws of life, allowing them to grow up
in ignorance, till they leam these subjects, not as sacred puri¬
ties, but mixed up with all kinds of loathsome perversions.
To the pure all things are pure. 3. The critic accuses Harris
of having taught “ the stoppage of the earth in its rotation,
when it is to be struck with a devouring comet, whirled out
of its orbit, purified by fire, and afterwards brought back
again into its position to serve as the hallowed habitation of
redeemed men.” All this is a mere fiction, evolved by the
writer out of his own inner consciousness : Harris never said
anything of the sort.
With this letter I bring this series of papers in The Spirit¬
ualist to an end. Since I have begun them I have had further
proofs of the truth of Harris’s statements of a most remarkable
kind. Internal respiration is a great fact. It is coming to
the world, and in time will so demonstrate its presence that
there will be no need of argument; for it will be its own
proof. In the meantime I have considered it my duty to write
these brief notes on the subject, feeling that they might be of
help to some. My belief has already been realised, and I now
leave them to produce such fruit as the Divine Master, the
Lord Jesus, shall, in His infinite wisdom, decree.
E. W. Bebbipge, M,B. (Lond.)
4, Highbury New Park, N.
226
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 7, 1875.
ALLEGED NEGLECT OE WOB.KEKS IN SPIUmJALISM.
Sib,—I have always mixed but very slightly with Spiritual¬
ists, in their gatherings and other public displays which they
make. But I am a constant and attentive student of our
literature, and take the greatest interest in the different ways
in which Spiritualism in England is developing itself. I
“ read, mark, learn, and as I inwardly digest,” I am often con¬
strained to ask myself the question, Whither are we tending?
At each successive moment of existence, whether of the
individual or of communities, we are going somewhere, and it
may be well for us to ask ourselves, now and again, in what
direction ?
The majority of English Spiritualists appear to be un¬
friendly to Christianity, and the conclusion I am compelled to
draw from the evidence before me is that when a man becomes
a Spiritualist, it is not insisted upon, certainly, but it seems
to be expected of him that he shall cast aside every form of
Christianity, even the Christianity of our Lord Jesus Christ
Himself. You may be an atheist, a pantheist, a deist, or
almost anything you like, and your theological opinions will
not be used to your disadvantage; but if you are so unfortu¬
nate as to be a Christian, and say so, if you tell the Spirit¬
ualist body that you believe in Jesus Christ as the Lord of
your life, and the Teacher from whose verdict there lies, and
can lie, no right of appeal, it is true you are not excommuni¬
cated, the fact that you are a Spiritualist is still admitted, but
you are looked upon with eyes more or less unfriendly, and a
wonder is expressed how, believing in Spiritualism, you can at
the same time be a Christian. No doubt, logically speaking,
Spiritualism does not necessarily imply Christianity, as the
two are easily separable. But some of us Christian Spirit¬
ualists have been brought to Christianity by Spiritualism,
while others of us have had our faith in Christianity deepened
and purified by this very influence; and it does seem rather
hard that we should not meet from our brother Spiritualists
the same heartiness of recognition which is accorded to those
who are non-Christian. To observe such an attitude towards
us is a blunder, as well as a wrong. Surely it is better that a
Christian should be a Spiritualist than that he should not be
one, or that he should be opposed to spiritualism; and if in
the exercise of his private judgment he can reconcile absolute
fidelity to Christ with the belief in Spiritualistic phenomena,
and all that is essential to an intelligent belief in Spiritualism,
it must be so much the better for him, and for the movement
also; and so far from his Christianity being ,a stumbling-
block in his way, he ought rather to be congratulated on his
ability to effect a reconciliation of belief, which comparatively
few Christians can effect. I cannot, of course, expect non-
Christians to say that they are Christians, but I do think non-
Christian Spiritualists might with advantage to the cause
manifest a little more generosity of feeling and treatment
towards those of us who, being Christian Spiritualists, are not
perhaps quite so enlightened as they are, but equally
sincere, self-sacrificing, and liberal in the best sense of the
term.
Take the case of Dr. Sexton. I am not merely grieved, I
am ashamed at the impediments thrown in his way; and when
these are not placed there, the degree in which he is practically
and so largely ignored. Here is a man, a ripe scholar, a good
scientist, a thorough philosopher, a keen and exact logician,
an admirable platform speaker, and a splendid debater, but
chiefly, as I take it, because he is not merely a Christian, but a
“ pronounced’’ one, and refuses to ignore his Christian belief
while expounding or pleading for Spiritualism, he is allowed
to struggle as few others would have permitted themselves to
do, and seldom employed unless in cases where societies are
glad of his advocacy, but want it given to them gratis. When
Dr. Sexton avowed himself a Spiritualist, he broke the ties of
half a lifetime, and flung himself into the new movement into
which his reason and conscience had precipitated him with
all the energy and singleness of mind which have invariably
characterised him as a public man. And what has been the
result ? For a little while he was the rage; but from the time
he avowed himself on the Christian side, and told the world
that it was Spiritualism itself which had brought him back to
Christianity, his engagements to lecture have become “ small
by degrees and beautifully less,” and the pecuniary support
which Spiritualists ought to have afforded him has been
rendered only in the most meagre degree. Men have been
put forward into the front of whom it may be said with perfect
truth that he has forgotten more than they will ever know,
and this preference has been shown because Dr. Sexton is a
Christian, and they are not Christians. 1 do not know how
these facts may strike you and your readers, but, if this is the
genuine outcome of what is called “liberalism,” then may
God shield me from being a liberal; for liberalism of this kind
seems to sum up its creed in saying, “ You are free to believe
as we do, and if you don’t we’ll make you, or try to do so by
starving you into compliance.”
I write these words without Dr. Sexton’s knowledge, without
any suggestion from him, and, very likely, did he know of my
writing them, without his approval. But one friend may
surely act contrary to the wishes of another in a case of this
kind, especially when not to do so would seem to be a betrayal
of the very friendship professed. The neglect Dr. Sexton has
experienced at the hands of Spiritualists for a long time past
is a simple disgrace, and when the history of this movement
comes to be written in the future, it will occupy a sad and dis¬
honourable page in it. In saying all this I beg of you to
understand, most fully and distinctly, that I am not pleading,
directly or indirectly, for myself, and that I have no con¬
ceivable selfish or personal motive to serve. I am a Spirit¬
ualist, and cannot help being one, and I never conceal the
fact, although, if I had followed the suggestions qf mere worldly
prudence, I should have kept my belief to myself, and so not
have lost friends, or involved myself in countless sacrifices
and almost any amount of unpardonable slander. No, sir,
this is not a personal plea, but a few words wrung out of me
in consideration of one my friendship with whom has
ranged over two-and-twenty years, and who is entitled to far
better treatment than he has ever yet received. Dr. Sexton
knows quite well the money value of his talents and attain¬
ments ; and had mere money been his object, and he had been
willing to sell himself to the highest bidder, wealth itself
would have flowed into his coffers. But he has chosen, in
this as in every other crisis of his life, to be simply honest to
the present truth and the present duty, with what results, as
far as the Spiritualist movement is concerned, let the Spirit¬
ualists answer, and blush as they do so.
I trust to your sense of fairness to insert this letter, even
though you may not sympathise with its contents. I most
willingly bear witness that hitherto your spirit of fair play has
been one of deed and truth, and not of name only, and I will
not believe that in this instance you will depart from it.
Fbedebick Rowland Young.
Bose Cottage, Swindon, May 1, 1875.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
Sib,—For the information of many of our readers residing
in Dalston, Hackney, Clapton, Kingsland, Stoke Newington,
and surrounding neighbourhoods, I desire an opportunity of
briefly pointing out, through the medium of your columns,
the advantages offered to intending applicants for membership
of the Dalston Association. In the first place, an opportunity
is offered for social intercourse, enabling inquirers and Spirit¬
ualists to compare their experiences, and to obtain advice on
disputed points. An experimental seance is held weekly,
affording means for obtaining a knowledge of the incipient
phases of the phenomena, which many, desirous of investi¬
gating Spiritualism, are prevented from gaining at home
through various objections raised by their relatives or friends.
On the last public evening in each month special arrange¬
ments are made to provide seances* with fully developed
mediums, through whom may be observed some of the more
marked phenomena of Spiritualism. In addition, papers
upon various topics connected with Spiritualism are read at
these meetings, and discussions invited thereon. Lectures
are also delivered from time to time as opportunity may offer.
Members likewise have the privilege of borrowing books from
the library, which contains many of the best works on
Spiritualism yet published; and they can peruse, at the rooms,
all the current English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines.
Through the liberal concessions recently made by Mrs. Wood-
forde, Mr. C. E. Williams, and Mr. F. M. Parkes, sittings can
be had by members with them at reduced fees. In conclusion,
I may state that all communications, addressed to the Associa¬
tion, will receive every attention. Thomas Blyton,
Hon. iSec. and Treasurer.
74, Navarin6-road, Dalston, London, E.
21st April, 1875.
THE BAZAAR.
Sir,—The letters which you have printed the last two or
three weeks, evince the interest felt in different parts of the
country, in reference to the coming bazaar. There is one fea¬
ture I am very desirous of seeing well carried out, and which
I intend bringing specially before the next meeting of the
May 7, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
227
Bazaar Committee, and that is, that we should endeavour to
obtain the loan of spiritual paintings, drawings, photographs,
speeimens of direct writing, or spiritual curiosities of any kind ;
so that we shall be able, in fact, to invite the public to a small
exhibition of spiritual art.
For a single evening, or a soiree, the labour involved in
moving and fixing a number of articles of this kind, especially
where possession of. the room has to be given up the same
evening, seems hardly worth the effort. In such a case as the
bazaar, however, the risk of damage is far less, and the useful
purpose likely to be answered, far greater.
I would, therefore, on behalf of the committee, ask those
who possess works of spiritual art to be willing to lend them,
as a valuable means of spreading a knowledge of the subject.
Anything sent to the rooms of the Association, 38, Great
Bussell-street, would be taken every care of.
If a few thousand handbills of an inexpensive character
were distributed at some of the large meetings, which would
be held in usual course during the week previous to the
bazaar, they might bring a number of additional visitors.
These handbills should include the mention of an exhibition
of Spiritual works of art.
If the exertions now being made are continued, the success
of the bazaar as to contributions seems assured. But we
must remember that its final success depends on purchasers,
and that for an unpopular subject special means must be used
to attract them. Edwakd T. Bennett.
Betchworth, May 3rd.
CONTINENTAL MEDIUMS.
Sib,—The following is an extract from a letter from the
Baroness von Vay, which she requests that you will kindly
publish in your next number.
“ Now I must tell you bad news. Warned by my guides, we
made the sad discovery that Mrs. Pucher cheated us. You will
remember the accounts of manifestations in the cabinet which
were published a short time back. In the beginning, when the
full form and the arms appeared, she wouldjnot, could not,deceive
us; but later, when we had full confidence in her, she became
possessed by bad spirits, and began to cheat. My guides told
me one evening, that she was imitating the spirit light, simply
by means of a white handkerchief. We immediately tried it;
the room was half dark, and lo, there was the same effect,
but no arms and no figure, only the light beckoning and nod¬
ding. We invited the woman to our house, telling her nothing.
First, we put her into a closed bag; nothing occurred ; we
then tried without a bag, and this light came. My cousin,
Count G. Wurmbrand grasped the light, and held Mrs.
Pucher’s handkerchief in his hand. It is very sad that the
first medium for physical phenomena was so misled by bad
spirits. When she began to cheat, the good spirits left her,
and bad ones possessed her. These bad spirits cannot produce
the physical phenomena; they can do nothing, so they insti¬
gate their mediums to practice deception.
“ There is a committee consisting of the first gentlemen and
professors in Vienna, who would like to see good physical
phenomena. We wish very much that Mr. Williams could
come to us; we are in strong need of such seances as his.”
I cannot refrain from remarking that this incident, in con¬
junction with others which have occurred lately, appears to me
to open up the very serious question of the responsibility of
mediums, exposed as they are to seemingly irresistible influ¬
ences, both from the spiritual and the material side. They
are the sport of the sitters, as well as the spirits, and are besides
susceptible to atmospheric and hygienic conditions. Even the
best guides appear not always to have power to shield their
mediums from evil influences.
What is the power of prayer under such circumstances ?
Does it always avail ? Emily Kislingbury.
38, Great Bussell-street.
Sib,—In my last letter I find a line omitted by the printer
which leaves a sentence unintelligible. After “ both are right
from their point of view,” it should continue: “If Mad.
Huguet had exposed or explained the first part of the seance,
she would indeed have been very clever.”
“M.A.,” in his excellent letter, seems strongly inclined
towards the theory of evil spirits, using mediums as tools for
malicious devices, and asked for more facts bearing on this
now so important and even pressing question. Last year we
had a seance here with a powerful medium, who had gone
previously through such convincing tests that their present
application seemed almost superfluous. But, for truth’s sake,
and to meet objections from outsiders, he was well secured;
that is, he could not leave his chair without interfering with
his bonds. We were, after some preliminary weak, doubtful
manifestations, waiting for the “ form,” when our host sud¬
denly shouted out, “ We are humbugged : it is disgraceful,”
and he struck a light, pushed away the screen, and there sat
the medium apparently in a deep trance, minus boots, and
with the sleeves of his coat pulled back. Judgment and con¬
demnation with most dramatic vigour followed quickly, and I
confess the tableau looked ghastly suspicious, the screen dis¬
closure in the School for Scandal being a tame affair in com¬
parison. Bearing in mind that tlic imagination of a sceptic is far
more creative than that of a believer, the boots seemed at once a
pair of portmanteaus, containing sets of apparatus ; besides,
they showed the possibility of stealing away noiselessly. This
seemed ugly enough, but I venture to state simply, that if the
solemnly-enforced conditions had been observed, the medium
would have been found exactly in the same position as at
first, and the test all right, but the test, in the awful con¬
fusion, had been disturbed or forgotten altogether. The im-
]#ession was decisive, and Spiritualism in toto was condemned
in the same strain of indignation. This, to my mind, turned
the catastrophe into a farce. After some time, when further
crucial tests left no doubt about the genuineness of this
medium, the judgment was modified to this form, that the
medium was, in this instance at least, a cheat. Considering
that his fee was promised, even in case of failure, such an
assumption seemed to me bordering on the miraculous, as the
medium would betray an amount of stupidity which would
make a prize-ass in the agricultural show to blush, therefore
the theory of influence of evil, diabolical spirits, gained in
favour, although I perceived at once the danger of general
acceptance of it. Even phrenology admitted into a court of
justice might cause some trouble. A thief, condemned to
seven years, might step forward, point to his skull, and say,
“ If yer feel my terrible bump of thieving, sir, yer would give
me only seven days, and praise me for my moderation.” If
evil spirits can get admittance to the stage of life, the culprit,
after boldly confessing his black deed, would side with the
judge in condemning his invisible scoundrel, and deplore
that he shows no inclination to materialise for immediate
execution.
But is not the interference of extenuating circumstances in
the present system of law a step towards similar views ? The
responsibility of the medium must be the same, nevertheless ;
he knows that punishment must follow transgression, and it is
his duty and business to guard himself against evil control,
and he should be struck from the list of professional mediums
when found out; but when the “genuine” is found by mer¬
ciless severity, the dishonesty should only be proclaimed after
persevering sounding, guided by charity. 0. Beimers.
9, Eastern-terrace, Brighton.
Sib,—Please publish the following short note about a per¬
son of great interest to Spiritualists here, he being one of the
few public physical media who work out of England.
Since some time Mr. and Mrs. Firman, at Paris, were
attacked by several parties, some of them sceptics and some of
them “ undeveloped Spiritualists.” This was the case also in
our country, where Mr. Firman gave some seances at Am¬
sterdam.
Allow me, in the interests of truth, to tell in a few lines
what I know and what I heard about those persons ; perhaps
this will influence people’s judgment a little, as I am known as
an old investigator, one of the first in this country. At Am¬
sterdam I saw in the light the spirit Kibosh, besides other
faces, while Mr. Firman sat entranced in the cabinet, and Mrs.
Firman quite still with us at the table. The musical box (a
very heavy one) floated, and, while floating, stopped or played
fast and slow as desired. In what I witnessed there was not a
shadow of deception, either in the dark seance or in the light.
In the former Mr. Firman was bound with cords to his neigh¬
bours, while I sat near Mrs. Firman.
Afterwards I received letters from Amsterdam stating that
Mr. Firman had submitted to be undressed, and had put on
the entire dress of another gentleman, yet the spirit showed
himself just as well as usual. On other occasions witnesses
wrote to me that they saw the faces form themselves; that a
kind of white fluidic veil was seen over Mr. Firman before the
full forms developed. Added to this, Mr. Firman was searched
several times. At the last seance at Amsterdam Mr. Firman
was accused of floating the musical box with his teeth, and of
stopping the spring with his tongue. The proof was, that
they pretend to have found marks of teeth on the box, Mr.
Firman saying simply that he knew nothing about it, as is
228
the seihitualist.
May 1, 1875.
quite reasonable to suppose. At once some people forgot all the
remarkable phenomena they witnessed, because of the foolish
suggestions of others ; for such alone, and no 'positive proofs,
were on that occasion brought forward in accusation of the
Firmans. We regretted sincerely that they did not visit the
Hague.
Now I hear that at Paris a sceptical lady pretends to have
exposed them also. After inquiry, I may remark—1. That to
conceal herself secretly in order to play the spy is, to use a
mild term, very unfashionable. 2. The piece of drapery
which the spirit Kibosh, who was seized, left in the lady’s
hand, is no proof of deception ; so know all connoisseurs (it
is too long to repeat here the explanation). 3. They pretend
that Mr. Firman used a mask and black gloves, but nothing of
this kind was ever found. 4. Recently I saw a letter from a
good investigator at Paris, a countryman of yours, who stated
that Kibosh (the spirit) managed to show himself with the
medium together in the light, and had succeeded already to
some extent. I hope he will send you details. A
A. J. Riko.
The Hague, Holland, April 28th.
Snt,—Though Spiritualists should be the first to expose any
attempt at imposture on the part of any medium, it is, on
the other hand, our bounden duty, both to God and man, to
see that mediums are not unfairly dealt with by a very scep¬
tical and hostile public. The late Firman case at Paris offers
a strong illustration of this principle. In weighing reasonable
arguments or probabilities in reference to the charge made
against Mr. Firman by Madame Huguet, to which assent has
been given by several sceptical investigators present, his ante¬
cedents in connection with investigations and experiments
made in company with such excellent and highly intelligent
men as the Count de Bullet and Mr. Gledstanes should be
accepted as one extremely strong plea in his favour, two others
being the excessive ignorance and rancorous hostility usually
exhibited by the public at large, in France particularly,
as to all modern spiritual phenomena, and, lastly, the extreme
self-stultification involved in all such attempts at sham¬
ming, when genuine mediumship, as in this case, is known
to exist.
But, leaving all these considerations aside for the moment,
may I briefly point out one oversight, likely to prove a fatal
one, which his accusers have made in framing their heavy
charge against him. I contend that they failed to show at the
time he was seized anything approaching to a sufficiency of
wearing apparel for disguise, in proximity to his person,
without which any attempt at a sham would be simply incre¬
dible. For no man, not an idiot, would attempt such a thing,
unless able to secrete the requisite paraphernalia. I think
that eventually, what is termed a fiasco, may be shown to have
been on the side of his accusers. That Mr. Firman should
have been on his knees when seized was natural enough; a
little later he might have been found quite entranced and on
the floor, as mediums for materialisation have been repeatedly
found; and if the spirit materialising was the Indian said to be
of only four feet in height, the fact of Mr. Firman being on
his knees may assume some extra significance. After all, the
well-attested phenomena of permanently materialised dra¬
pery aryl flowers, the “ white stuff ” seized, if a torn-
off piece, could be easily accounted for, but in the state
of our present knowledge, a scarf entire, if it was
entire, would present a serious difficulty, but certainly not one
leading to conclusive evidence against the medium. The
absence of other requisite articles would still have to be
accounted for, and his accusers cannot be permitted to amend
their accusation to suit circumstances. Another difficulty to
my mind is this. If Madame Huguet had determined before¬
hand—as she must have done—to test violently the medium’s
integrity, she could have done so as effectually by insisting,
previous to his entering the cabinet, or at the precise moment
of his doing so, upon a search being made of the cabinet and
of his person; and Mr. Firman must have felt, owing to the
hostile scepticism he must have previously been aware of, that
such a search was possible or even probable. The spirits, too,
must have well perceived her determination, but, as probably
she had intended to watch some time before intervening, and
was induced from her cramped position in the press to act
hastily, their possible expectation that she would find the
medium entranced was not quite realised. If an entire scarf
was really found, the spirits should be invited, on Mr. Firman’s
recovery, to materialise permanently a scarf of similar texture.
a
AMBIGUOUS PHEASES IN SPIEITUALISM.
Sib,—It has often struck me how ambiguously the words
“ soul ” and “ spiritual ” are used, in discussions among
Spiritualists especially. From acceptation, the words are
employed to denote the immaterial part of our being, on the
hypothesis that in our total nature some distinction between
that and our so-called material existence actually obtains. In
this sense soul means the bare existence of soul, supposed or
believed. In another sense these words are taken to mean
the attributes commonly imputed to soul and things spiritual,
these attributes usually being of a “ lofty ” and complimen¬
tary description. But used in this sense the words signify
something neither included nor implied in the other. Thus
I have heard in conversation the idea put forth that the souls
of people who lead low and earthly lives might leave their
bodies in disgust, without awaiting the process of death. Such
fancies owe their plausibility to the ambiguity in question.
B. H.
ANSWERS TO COBBESPONDENTS.
0.—We' do not desire to publish anonymous letters about mani¬
festations which may occur in the presence of professional
mediums.
A correspondent informs us that a private medium in Boulogne
is getting spirit, photographs; he is almost always under influ¬
ence, and the spirits will let him have nothing to eat and drink
but rice and pure water.
In two Volumes, with Portrait of the Author. Published at 21s.
THE COMING MAN,
By the late Rev. James E. Smith.
By the kindness of a friend we are enabled to offer the readers of The
Spiritualist a few copies of this remarkable work at half price, namelyt
10s. 6d.
For many years Mr. Smith was Editor of the Family Herald, and in its
columns rendered inestimable service as a liberal theologian and philoso¬
pher. He was one of the first to recognise the importance of mesmerism,
clairvoyance, and Spiritualism, and was the chief contributor to the
Spiritual Herald—the precursor of other world literature in this country.
In the Coming Man are discussed with singular sympathy and intelli¬
gence, peculiar forms of religion, socialism and spiritualism prevalent
between 1830 and 1848, and of which little is known in the present genera¬
tion.
The volumes will be sent to any address on application, with a Post
Office Order for 10s. 6d., to Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s
Church-yard, E.C.
LE MESSAGES,, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la CatMdrale, Lifege
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
"O EYUE SPISITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
iLVi fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. , Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size. 3s.; small size, Is.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEOR&E SEXTON, M.A., l.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, <tc
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by Smart and Allen, London House-yard, Patemoster-row, E.C.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2id. Published on
the 1st of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Hey wood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
Just Published, Crown 8vo, Price 3s. 6d.
SON, REMEMBER,
An Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
BY THE REV. JOHN PAUL, B.A.,
Rector of St. Alban’s, Worcester.
“ NOT SPECULATION—NOT PURGATORY."
London: H. K. LEWIS, 136, Gower-street, W.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-Street, Melbourne, where tfhe
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
May 7, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
111
'ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
- SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIB,V0YANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vemon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 6s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, (will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
"13 OBERT HARPER is now sufficiently free from busi-
JLVi ness engagements to undertake LECTURING and HEALING.—
R. H. has been a close student under many eminent professors in the great
Spiritual University for 14 years. He is willing to communicate what he
has thus acquired, by Lecturing upon the Higher Branches of the Spiritual
Science, to any who may desire his services. The Terms will be made
suitable to the poorest Societies, and may be learnt on application. Address
Soho-hill, Birmingham.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only'. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
.' Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
"R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon [as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. oliye, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
"VTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
JLM of Curative [Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily] from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
FM. PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings d la seance by appointment. Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gay.ies Park Terrace, Grove-road,
JBow, E.
WANTED TO PURCHASE.—A complete Set of bound
volumes of the Spiritual Magazine. Please apply, stating price
and condition of volumes, to X, care of E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
Loudon, E.C.
JOHN'S RAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St, James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid fo r on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fjtz-Gerald,-Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Riehmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blaekheath. S.E. •
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fifz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. TeLE, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
James, Capt. J, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs. F. A., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House,-Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 0, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs .Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal,
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsio
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
Dr. G. L. Ditson, Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town Africa.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because withinitheslast twenty;,years,
it has found its way into all the .ci'^iised countries ori^me'-giobe; it has also
a literature of .thoftsahdsfofevoiubles and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical'Sociely,. Adam-street, Aclelphi,. under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart.! M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-: Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H: R. Fox Bourne, Esq.’; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq-, F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William* Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were Subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported :—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’    
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers.into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of' the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. the first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, fo avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?" Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body. i
9. A powerful physical medium is usually' a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
-spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibl3- at the first sitting, of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
May 7, 1875.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER- ^
A liecordqfthe1 Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marry at); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author qf Unor¬
thodox London-. Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smvrna); Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
A BOOK FOR THE MILLION.
Read the following from “ The London Review."
The Two Discoveries^, or, Key to Pine’s Spiritual Telegraph. By
Clement Pine. London: Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and of the
Author at Bridgwater. Price Is. By post, Is. Id.
Spiritualism has become one of the most absorbing studies of the. day.
Enquiring minds long to pierce its hidden mysteries, and fathom its mys¬
terious depths. Those endowed with the highest attributes have been and
are the most diligent searchers into the veiled and sacred spirit-world.
The author of the above soul-absorbing work claims for it the wonderful
power of unlocking the abstruse labyrinths o'f mathematical science,
enabling everyone, who values the privilege, to converse as freely with
friends in spirit-life as when they were on earth. We must certainly say
that the book is a curious, original, and thoughtful one, which will amply
repay an attentive perusal. It is replete with the most startling evidences
of the truth of Spiritualism, and the author’s spirit of sincerity permeates
every page. The appendix more especially proves the writer to be a man
of deep learning, profound thought, and a most able mathematician; his
facts are incontrovertible, his reasoning sound, and his deductions clear and
logical. We cordially and strongly recommend this, the most original
book of the day, to the perusal of our readers; and congratulate the author
upon producing a work so replete with information, and of such absorbing
interest as the “Two Discoveries.”
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
The spiritual and psychopathic insti-
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.)" J. and L. E. COATES, Principals.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. TYERMAN,
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg : his life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Whereia the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jbens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden,
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of Tht Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions o Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the- Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
