AMD JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.] .
No. 155.—(Yol. YII.—No. 7.) LONDON: AUGrXJST 13, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Contents.
The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism  73
Researches on the Historical Origin of the Reincarnation Speculations
of French Spiritualists. By the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian
Imperial Councillor and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas ... 74
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris   76
The Supernatural Element in Works of Fiction  76
The Spirit of Man in the Fire-Mist  77
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—
New Members—The. Presidency of the Association—Finance Com¬
mittee’s Report—Gifts to the Association—Collection for Mr. Fir¬
man—The Alliance of the Brixton Society with the National
Association—Cheap Spiritual Literature—Dr. Sexton’s Lectures—
The Periodical Soirees—Free Seances—The Annual National Con¬
ference      78
Correspondence A Few Suggestions—Dr. Test’s Departure for
America—National Association Elections—Vegetarianism and
Spiritualism—Spiritualism in Germany—Spiritualism and Ma¬
terialism     80
Provincial News:—Liverpool—Newcastle-on-Tyne—Leicester   81
Observations on Mediums. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory  82
Spiritualism in America     ■  82
A Sketch in Light Colours        83
Mr. Dale Owen’s Insanity ...    83
The Latest News from Paris     84
An Apparition   ...    84
Paragraphs:—Levitation of a Baby Medium,75; Sunday Services at
the Cavendish Rooms, 83-; The Evidence in the Leymarie Trial,
84; Psychic Phenomena, 84; M. Leymarie and the Kardec
Society      ...      84
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
EIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
* J Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits,
i ; Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Offlhe hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and ail inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russel 1-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly-supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 6s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 80s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
. SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
WORKS BY THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
, THE GREAT REPUBLIC: a Poem of the Sun. 6s. ■
THE BREATH OF GOD WITH MAN. Is. 6d.
ARCANA OF CHRISTIANITY; The Apocalypse. Vol. I. 6s. 6d.
THE MILLENNIAL AGE. 2s. 6d.
LONDON SERIES OF SERMONS. Is.'
Wholesale and Retail by John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow.
Sold also by MRS. Connor, 15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The- Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on pplication.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blaclmell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th, 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 13, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, .Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, tipper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Q-erald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwiok-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.O.
Eamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin E, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Ed ward-street, Ltverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Eeigate. .
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Huteheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Eev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook/Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, B., Yienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, E., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G„ M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Bye-terrace, Peckham Bye, S.E.
Gale, Bichard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Bobert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W,
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O,
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Bichmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.B.C.8., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Begent’s-pk.. N.W.
Pearce, Bichard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Bogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Bogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Bev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
■ Tapp, G. B., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, B. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal), H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq.,Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq,,38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Eussie, Nieder Walluf on the Bhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Pacha Ahmed Bassim, Khande Bassim Pacha, it Bahdje Capousson, Con-
• stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.’
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris-
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles. Esq., Hammontou, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Bue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bail way, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York,
U.S.A,
A. J. Biko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
C. Constant, Esq., Hotel St. Marc, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Hussell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
Epos' Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Bace-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., II, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Bev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chauss6e St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Bue du Midi, Brussels,
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Bue de Vienne, Brussels.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Eue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS, Professional Medium, is at
present on the Continent. Letters addressed to him at 61, Lambs
Conduit-street, Holborn, London, will be forwarded.
RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
Jl-TjL MESMEBIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Eussell-square. W.O.
PROFESSOR REGAN, ELECTRO-MAGNETIC
HEALEB, is now open to give treatment to Patients at his resi¬
dence, or their own, by appointment. Fee, One Guinea. Address 69, Fin-
boro’-road, Betcliffe-gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
BUBBEB, AND MEDICAL CLAIBVOYANT, 1, Bobert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon las engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E. .
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
k3 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. olive, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STBEET, CHALK FABM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily; from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
Le messager,
the 1st and 15th of
a fortnightly Journal, published on
every month, at 36, Bue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
r
VOtUJVIE ^EYEJ^. ^UJVIBER ^EVEjNf.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 13th, 1875.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS : — Half-a-crown
for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for
every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one
word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms
for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Cobrbspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
communications for the Literary Department should be addressed to the
Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the branch office, of
Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. O. F. Varley, O.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. H. G. Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
The religious aspects of Spiritualism may be viewed
by those within the movement from' two different points.
In the first place, there are those who look upon
Spiritualism as a new revelation from on high, who
consider that it opens the gates of the eternal world
so that they can gaze into the land beyond, and who
believe that it establishes free communication with the
spirits of those whom they have loved and lost—as they
once thought—for ever. Those who thus believe are
raised spiritually in consequence of their adoption of
this view, because the hold upon their minds of some of
the more irrational orthodox dogmas is loosened, free¬
dom of thought is encouraged, and altogether they are
the better for the change which Spiritualism has wrought
in their inner nature. The other point of view is that
which may be taken by more trained and critical
minds, who inquire into the subject with a desire that
the views of their more easy thinking brethren may
prove to be correct, but who see that those views do
not meet all cases. Remembering that it is a fact
that several new discoveries in the realms of physical
nature made by men in their normal condition are
brought up every Thursday evening at the Royal
Society, and that every now and then one of these
new discoveries of the laws of God is of such an im¬
portant nature that the whole world is benefited by it
within a very few years, one cannot but be struck by
the circumstance that although professed revelations
from spirits about the physical realms of nature are
often given through unconscious trance mediums, the
statements are frequently not only inaccurate, but the
reverse of truthful. The fact remains that no new dis¬
coveries in physics have been made either by trance or
clairvoyance from the first day that modern Spiritualism
dawned upon the world, whilst three or four discoveries
in the realms of nature are brought up every Thursday
evening at one scientific society alone. The alleged
clairvoyant discovery of Neptune by A. J. Davis will
not bear critical examination, as already proved in the
columns of The Spiritualist. Spiritualism could not
help presenting its own physical phenomena to the
world, but does not unravel the philosophy even of
these to any great extent.
Although in certain instances, as in Mr. Livermore’s
seances with Kate Fox, the personal identity of departed
spirits has been proved in the most convincing manner,
yet good tests of spirit identity, as all experienced
Spiritualists know, are few and far between, especially
those which are attested by reliable and recognised
observers. - In this manner the argument might be
continued and other illustrations drawn from other
branches of Spiritualism, but enough has been said to
prove the point sought to be established by the preseut
argument, namely, that a proportion of unreliability
in spirit-messages is clearly visible to trained minds.
Now remains the question, What religious influence
does Spiritualism exert on the latter order of mind. In
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 13, 1875.
the first place, imperfect as the evidence is at present,
there is sufficient to give those who search for it con¬
clusive evidence of the reality of the existence of
invisible intelligent beings, free from the trammels of
the physical body; thus strong presumptive evidence of
the reality of immortality is obtained. Secondly, it
demonstrates very clearly that if any of us wish to become
angels both in love and wisdom, we can only do so by self-
improvement and hard work. “ As the tree falls, so does
it lie,” and when freed from this body of clay we shall
rise in the next world neither spiritually better nor
spiritually worse than we are at present, and shall
attain no place which we have not earned by work. In
all this there is deep religious teaching. Then again:
the doubts, the difficulties, and the troubles of Spirit¬
ualism, which are best understood by those who have
the deepest acquaintance with its facts, have to be
solved by close study. These difficulties teach the
student to be patient under misconception, to pay no-
blind respect to that authority which denies the exist¬
ence of truths which are written in letters of light
before the eyes of those who will search for them;
it teaches him independence of character; trains him
in habits of self-reliance; makes him careless of public
opinion and of anything the outside world may unjustly
say or do. In all this there is a deeper and more real
religious teaching than is gained by those who accept
only the surface aspects of Spiritualism, who make no
question as to the stability of the foundations, and
who do not apply much mental labour to the subject.
The one class of mind is in a state of repose and com¬
parative happiness; the other is in a state of activity;
and although for a time it may be more cast down by
troubles and perplexities, when its time of rest comes
its happiness is deeper, because it has been earned by
hard work. The child of nature who plunges into the
sea, who does battle with its storms and its breakers,
although he may be surrounded by dangers for a time,
becomes a more independent and manly character than
his neighbour who sits idly basking in the sunshine
upon the beach. The object with which these remarks
are made is to call attention to the circumstances that
those persons who search out the real facts and philo¬
sophy of Spiritualism, although they may not at
present preach it from platforms as the regenerator of
the human race, may yet receive the deepest and most
enduring religious education that Spiritualism can give.
RESEARCHES ON THE HISTORICAL ORIGIN OF THE
REINCARNATION SPECULATIONS OF FRENCH
SPIRITUALISTS.
BT THE HON. ALEXANDKE AKSAKOE, RUSSIAN IMPERIAL
COUNCILLOR AND CHEVALIER OP THE ORDER OE ST.
STANISLAS.
In view of the approaching publication of translations
in the English language of the works of Allan Kardec,
of which the principal volume, The Spirits' Boole, is
already out, I feel it my duty to lay before the English
public the result of my researches in the direction of
the origin of the dogma of Reincarnation. When “ Spi¬
ritism,” newly baptised with this name, and embodied in
form of a doctrine by Kardec, began to spread in
France, nothing astonished me more than the diver¬
gence of this doctrine from that of “ Spiritualism,”
touching the point of Reincarnation. This divergence
was the more strange because the sources of the con¬
tradictory affirmations claim to be the same, namely,
the spirit-world and communications given by spirits.
As Spiritism was born in 1856 with the publication of
the Boole of Spirits, it is clear that to solve this enigma
it was necessary to begin with the historical origin of
this book. It is remarkable that nowhere, either in
this volume or in any of the others, does Kardec give
upon this head the slightest detail. And why was
this ? the essential point in all serious criticism being
to know before all things how such a book came into
existence? As I did not live in Paris, it was difficult
for me to procure the necessary information; all that
I could learn was that a certain somnambulist, known
by the name of Celina Japhet, had contributed largely
to the work, but that she had been dead for a long
time. During my stay in Paris in 1873,1 explained
to a Spiritualistic friend my jegret that I had never met
this somnambulist in life, to which he replied that he
had also heard that she was dead, but he doubted
whether the rumour was true; also that he had reason to
suppose that this was nothing but a rumour spread abroad
by the Spiritists, and that it would be well if I made
further personal inquiry. He gave me a former address
of Mme. Japhet, and what was my astonishment and
joy to find her in perfect health! When I told her of
my surprise, she replied that it was nothing new to
her, for the Spiritists were actually making her pass for
a dead person. Here is the substance of the informa¬
tion which she was obliging enough to give me.
Madlle. Celina Bequet was a natural somnambulist
from her earliest years. At sixteen or seventeen years
of age, while residing with her parents in Paris, she
was mesmerised for the first time by Ricard, and three
times by him in all. In 1841 she was living in the
provinces, and was attacked with a serious illness;
having lost the use of her legs, she was confined to her
bed for twenty-seven months; afterwards, having lost
all hope of relief from medicine, she was mesmerised
and put to sleep by her brother; she then prescribed
the necessary remedies, and after treatment for six
weeks she got out of bed and could walk with the aid
of crutches, which she was obliged to use for eleven
months. At last, in 1843, she had entirely recovered
her health.
In 1845 she went to Paris in search of M. Ricard,
and she made the acquaintance of M. Roustan at the
house of M. Millet, a mesmerist. She then took, for
family considerations, the name of Japhet, and became
a professional somnambulist under the control of M.
Roustan, and remained in that position till about 1848.
She gave, under her assumed name, medical advice
under the spiritual direction of her grandfather, who
had been a doctor, and also of Hahnemann and of
Mesmer, from whom she received a great number of
communications. In this manner in 1846 the doctrine
of Reincarnation was given to her by the spirits of her
grandfather St. Theresa, \ and others. (As the som¬
nambulic powers of Madame Japhet were' developed
under the mesmeric influence of M. Roustan, it may be
well to remark in this place that M. Roustan himself
believed in the plurality of terrestrial existences. See
Cahagnet’s Sanctuaire du Spiritualisms—Paris, 1850—
page 164: since dated August 24th, 1848.)
In 1849 Madame d’Abnour, on her return from
America, desired to form a circle for spiritual phe¬
nomena, of which she had lately been a witness. For
this purpose she called upon M. de Giildenstubbe, by
whom M. Roustan and Celina Japhet were asked to
become members of his spirit-circle. (See the German
THE SPIRITUALIST. # 75
Aug. 13, 1875.
edition of Pneumatologie Positive of the Baron de
Giildenstubbe—Stuttgart, 1870—page 87.) This circle
was also joined by the Abbe Chatel and the three
Demoiselles Bouvrais ; it consisted therefore of nine
persons. This circle met once a week at the house of
Madame Japhet, 46, Rue des Martyrs; afterwards,
almost up to the time of the war of 1870, it met twice
a week. In 1855 the circle was composed of the fol¬
lowing persons : M. Tierry, M. Taillandier, M. Tillman,
M. Ramon de la Sagra (since dead), Messrs. Sardou
(father and son), Madame Japhet, and M. Roustan,
who continued a member of it until about 1864. They
began by making a chain, American fashion, in form of
a horse-shoe, round Madame Celina, and they obtained
spiritual phenomena more or less remarkable; but
soon Madame Celina developed as a writing medium,
and it was through that channel that the greater part
of the communications were obtained.
In 1856 she met M. Denizard Rivail, introduced by
M. Yictorien Sardou. He correlated the materials by
a number of questions; himself arranged the whole in
systematic order, and published The Spirits' Boole
without ever mentioning the name of Madame, C.
Japhet, although three-quarters of this book had been
given through her mediumship. The rest was obtained
from communications through Madame Bodin, who be¬
longed to another spirit-circle. She is not mentioned
except on the last page of the first number of the
Revue Spirite, where, in consequence of the number of
reproaches that were addressed to him, he makes a
short mention of her. As he was also attached to an
important journal, L'Univers, he published his book'
under the names which he had borne in his two previous
existences. One of these names was Allan—a fact
revealed to him by Madame Japhet, and the other name
of Kardec was revealed to him by the medium Roze.
After the publication of the Book of Spirits, of which
Kardec did not even present one copy to Madame
Japhet, he quitted the circle and arranged another in
his own house, M. Roze being the medium, ^hen he
thus left he possessed a mass of manuscript which he
had carried otf from the house of Madame Japhet, and
he availed himself of the right of an editor by never
giving it back again. To the numerous requests for
its return which were made to him, he contented
himself by replying, “Let her go to law with me.”
These manuscripts were to some extent useful in the
compilation of the Booh of Mediums, of which all the
contents, so says Madame Japhet, had been obtained
through medial communications.
It would be essential in order to complete this article
to review the ideas on pre-existence and on reincarna¬
tion which were strongly in vogue in Trance just before
1850. An abstract of these will be found in the work
of M. Pezzani on The Plurality of Existences. The
works of Cahagnet should also be consulted. As I am
now away from my library, it is impossible for me to
give the relative points exactly.
In addition to the foregoing, supplementary details
bearing upon the origin of The Book of Spirits, and the
different points connected therewith, can and ought to
be obtained from living witnesses to throw light upon
the conception and birth of this book, such as Madame
Japhet, Mdlle. de Giildenstubbe, M. Sardou, and M.
Taillandier. The last continues up to the present time
to work with Madame Japhet as a medium; she is still
in possession of her somnambulic powers, and continues
to give consultations. She sends herself off to sleep
by means of objects which have been mesmerised by
M. Roustan. I think it a duty on this occasion to
testify to the excellence of her lucidity. I consulted
her about myself, and she gave me exact information
as to a local malady, and as to the state of my health in
general. Row is it not astonishing that this remarkable
person, who has done so much for Trench Spiritism,
should be living entirely unknown for twenty years,
and no notice or remark made about her ? Instead of
being the centre of public attention she is totally
ignored ; in fact, they have buried her alive! Let us
hope that the reparation which is due to her will be
made one day. “ Spiritualism ” might, in this matter,
offer a noble example to “ Spiritism.”*'
Now to return to the question of Reincarnation. I
leave it to English critics to draw their deductions from
the facts which I unravelled by my researches, incom¬
plete though they be; I will do no more than throw
out the following ideas: That the propogation of this
doctrine by Kardec was a matter of strong predilection
is clear; from the beginning Reincarnation has not
been presented as an object of study, but as a dogma. To
sustain it he has always had recourse to writing
mediums, who it is well known pass so easily under the
psychological influence of preconceived ideas; and
Spiritism has engendered such in profusion ; whereas
through physical mediums the communications are not
only more objective, but always contrary to the doctrine
of Reincarnation. Kardec adopted the plan of always
disparaging this kind of mediumship, alleging as a pre¬
text its moral inferiority^. Thus the experimental
method is altogether unknown in Spiritism; for twenty
years it has not made the slightest intrinsic progress,
and it has remained in total ignorance ef Anglo-American
Spiritualism ! The few Trench physical mediums who
developed their powers in spite of Kardec, were never
mentioned by him in the Revue; they remained almost
unknown to Spiritists, and only because their spirits
did not support the doctrine of Reincarnation ! Thus
Camille Bredif, a very good physical medium, acquired
celebrity only in consequence of his visit to St. Peters¬
burg. I do not remember ever to have seen in the
Revue Spirite the slightest notice of him, still less any
description of manifestations produced in his presence.
Knowing the reputation of Mr. Home, Kardec made
several overtures to get him upon his side; he had two
interviews with him for this purpose, but as Mr. Home
told him that the spirits who had communicated through
him never endorsed the idea of Reincarnation, he
thenceforth ignored him, thereby disregarding the value
of the manifestations which were produced in his
presence. I have upon this head a letter from Mr.
Home, although at the present moment it is not within
reach.
In conclusion, it is scarcely necessary to point out
that all that I have herein stated does not affect tho
question of Reincarnation, considered upon its own
merits, but only concerns the causes of its origin and
of its propagation as Spiritism.
Chateau do Krotofka, Russia, July 24th, 1875.
Levitation of a Baby Medium.—In a letter written on
Friday last Mr. H. D. Jencben says: “ Only fancy, last night
little Ferdy was taken out of his crib and carried across the
room into his mother’s arms, so gently that even our exclama¬
tion of surprise did not wake him. They then rapped out on the
down pillow—‘ We moved him to break the influence / ’ ”
* The address of Madame Japhet is Paris, Rue des Enfants Rouges, 6.
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Am 13, 1875
THE PERSECUTION 0E SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.,,
Sib,—M. Leymarie’s trial itself was not a new trial, as I had
been led to expect, with a fresh examination of witnesses, the
old ones and the new. It was simply a review of the former one.
A report upon it (including the original instruction) was made
by one of the judges, who had been designated as the “ con-
s'eiller rapporteur ” for that purpose. As hard upon the
accused as possible, of course. Then followed a little further
interrogation of the accused, Buguet and Leymarie, by the
President. Then the speeches of the lawyers, namely, the
prosecuting Avocat General (Benvist), and Craquelin for
Buguet, and Lachaud for Leymarie. And then the President
announced that the sentence of the Court would be pronounced
at twelve o’clock on the day but one after, viz., Friday. And
that I telegraphed to you.
I am told that Lachaud’s argument of two hours’ length
was magnificent, though I was unable to stay to hear it,
having a higher duty to a very sick and suffering friend whose
sole nurse I happened to be. The Prooureur had made
statements which had no foundation in evidence, and were
contrary to the truth, and ascribed to Leymarie things he had
never said, and Lachaud’s rebuke to him, to which he made
no reply, was withering, as. I am assured. His general argu¬
ment was mainly directed to the point of Leymarie’s good
faith in his belief in Buguet’s photographs. Of course he
referred to the hundreds of cases in which different persons
had attested the likenesses of their deceased relations—to the
-care with which Leymarie had over and over again subjected
Buguet’s performances to the test of inspection by competent
scientific investigators besides himself—to the abundant and
conclusive proof there was of what an utterly unbelievable
liar Buguet, his accuser, had shown himself to be—and he
read a letter from an American physician of distinction (in
court and ready to be examined), setting forth all about
Mumler’s trial and triumphant acquittal with the full ap¬
proval of the presiding judge in 1868, after a trial which
lasted about three weeks, in which it had been abundantly
proved that a great number of his likenesses produced were
recognised, and that he never hesitated to go to the ateliers of
other photographers, or to allow them to come and conduct
the whole work themselves at his, with their own instru¬
ments and glasses. To this letter of Dr. Locander’s I
had added a short general confirmation — a mention
of Hudson’s success in London as attested to me
by various friends who recognised the likenesses obtained
by them; and a reference to Gurney, the head of the photo¬
graphic art in America, as having endorsed, after the closest
scrutiny, the honesty of Mumler’s operations. These testimonies
of course were directed by Lachaud, not to the point of proving
the true reality of spirit photography, but to that of showing
Leymarie’s good faith in his confiding acceptance of Buguet’s
pictures when he had before him not only Buguet’s pro¬
fessions and successes, and the investigations he had sub¬
jected him to, but also those American and English experiences
in the same matter. Lachaud also pleaded powerfully Buguet’s
own letters to Leymarie, which were conclusive as to Ley¬
marie’s innocence of any connivance with him, or any suspicion
that there was any trickery; and also the declarations of two
of Buguet’s own employes, to the effect of Leymarie’s ignorance
of it, and of pains having been taken to keep him in ignorance.
These witnesses were in court, ready to be examined if called
upon by the court; but in these appeal trials counsel have no
power to introduce fresh witnesses. And it is the rarest
of occasions that the court itself calls upon them.
Nevertheless, to the general surprise, the court on Friday did
allow three witnesses who presented themselves to testify in
Leymarie’s favour. These were the well-known Orientalist,
Jacolliot, formerly a magistrate himself in Pondicherry, and
Dr. and Mme. Huguet, who had been to the President in pri-
va)te, to ask to be heard. They could only give their con¬
victions, without having any specific facts to testify. This
looks very like an attempted show of fairness put forward,
when the judge’s mind and resolve were made up, and when,
after Lachaud’s speech, he had a very flimsy case of reasons
in support of the determined sentence. M. Jacolliot said,
that having met Leymarie at Dr. Huguet’s, they had discussed
together the soul, the spirit, the belief of antiquity, and espe¬
cially the relations existing between modern Spiritism and the
Hindoo faiths, dating back to over 20,000 years ago. That
after this interchange of ideas they had talked of spirit-photo¬
graphs and of their possibility, and that it had been agreed
between them that every fortnight they would make experi¬
ments together at Buguet’s, as was done; and that it had also
been agreed that they and Dr. Huguet should some day take
Buguet in a carriage, blindfold, to some chance photographer’s,
there to make trials, which, however, was never carried into
effect. He declared that he had always found in Leymarie a
conscientious thinker and seeker, resolute to detect and expose
fraud wherever it should exist, and that he honoured his
character and entire good faith. After they left the court
room, M. Jacolliot observed to Leymarie that a hundred years
hence (he might have said much sooner) his trial would rank
with the one which took place a hundred years ago, at which
the tribunal of Aix, in Provence, sentenced a sow (truie) to be
hung for the crime of having devoured a consecrated wafer
(hostie), a sentence which was solemnly executed.
Were not this letter already so long, I could show the
flimsy character of the “ eonsid&ants," or grounds, on which
the confirmation of the former sentence was sought to be
justified—grounds which were either trifling or untrue, and
against which stood opposed such a mass of various proofs of
Leymarie’s innocence. But of what avail was it ? It is some
indication of conscious weakness in his case that the judge
did not in this case add any aggravation to the former sen¬
tence. Did a certain latent conscience forbid it to the tri¬
bunal which had just raised a sentence of six days and a fine
of 2,000 francs, to one of six months and 4,000 francs, for the
offence of a mistake perhaps committed in marking two wrong
trees for the axe ?
I am glad to say that Leymarie has determined to appeal
further to the Court of Cassation, where he hopes to have
this judgment quashed. I do hope that English and American
Spiritualists will help him in his gallant and resolute struggle,
not so much for himself as for the common cause.
As soon as the judgment was rendered, Colonel Devoluet, a
retired colonel of artillery, commander in the Legion of Honour,
a man of the noblest appearance, tall as Saul, and of highly
dignified and intelligent countenance, came forward, and in
full view of the court and spectators embraced Leymarie, who
is very small, kissing him, French fashion, on both cheeks,
and saying aloud, so as to be heard by everybody in the
court-room, that he was happy to embrace a man who had
been adjudged an escroc (swindler), but whom he was proud
to esteem and to honour. This was a noble protest of human
nature against the French judicial nature, and of as fine a
specimen of the former as you will meet in the longest of
summer days. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris.
P.S.—Little Mrs. Firman, who is living quietly with her
mother, is developing in a very promising manner with Comte
de Bullet as a materialising medium. Hands and arms have
been well formed, and once a brief glimpse of an imperfect
head. Bullet had been directed by his spirits to sit with her
for this purpose.
THE SUPERNATURAL ELEMENT IN WORKS OF
FICTION.
The World, a weekly journal little more than a year old,
has attained a high reputation for its fearless denunciation of
religious fanaticism, and the worldly vices and follies of the
age. As Spiritualism has not come under the ban of this
clever paper, we may assume that the editor has discovered his
error in attacking in another journal those excellent mediums
the Davenports several years ago, and that a healthful “ change
has come o’er the spirit of his dreams ”—especially as in ful¬
filment of his promise to give a series of original stories by the
most popular writers, he introduces last week (August 4th)
one from the pen of Mr. Wilkie Collins, which from its open¬
ing would appear to be more adapted to these columns.
The story is called “ The Clergyman’s Confession.”
A brother who had been for many years in India returns
home, and finds the clergyman oppressed with a sad secret,
which he has never confided to any one :—
“ ‘ But you can trust me ? ’
“ * Yes,’ he said, ‘ I know I can trust you.’ He waited a
moment, and then he surprised me by a strange question.
“ ‘ Do you believe,’ he asked, ‘ that the spirits of the dead
can return to earth, and show themselves to the living ? ’
I answered cautiously, adopting as my own the words of a
great English writer, touching the subject of ghosts.
“ * You ask me a question,’ I said, ‘ which, after five thousand
years, is yet undecided. On that account alone, it is a question
not to be trifled with.’
“ My reply seemed to satisfy him,” etc., etc.
This savours, in the skilful hands of the celebrated novelist,
as the commencement of an interesting ghost story.
Atjg. 13, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
THE SPIRIT OF MAN IN THE FIRE-MIST.
We have received the following letter from Dr.
Gully on the above subject. Dr. Gully’s letters are
always welcome and interesting, hut in this case he
should have twice read thei article he criticises, for
his letter is full of misquotations:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist”
Sib,—Pardon me if I say that I am at a loss to see any use¬
ful end to Spiritualism in the article of last week’s Spiritualist,
entitled “ The Spirit of Man in the Fire-Mist.” The apparent
object is, first, to rebuke those who call Mr. Tyndall and his
scientific fellows atheists and materialists; and, secondly, to set
forth the reasonableness of the theory propounded by that gen¬
tleman, that the spirit of man is only one of the outcomes and
forms of the fire-mist, on which he builds his entire edifice of our
planetary system. With regard to calling of names, I agree
that it is better not to do so, even though the scientific gen¬
tlemen loudly avow their belief in the sufficiency of matter
to explain itself and the human thought as well; but you
must allow something for the natural man’s weakness when
he finds himself stigmatised by those very gentlemen, whose
feelings we are called on to respect, as an “idiot,” a“ drivelling
fool,” a “ victim of arrant cheats and rogues,” a “ deluded,
half-witted poor creature,” and such like flowers of epithet.
To call a man an “ atheist ” who studiously avoids all refer¬
ence to a Deity in his speculations on existent things, and a
“ materialist,” when he asserts that there is no power save in
matter, seems to me a very mild, not to say reasonable, form
of vituperation, compared with the names which have been
bestowed on Spiritualism and Spiritualists at British Associa¬
tions of Science. Still, I think you are right in advising your
readers not to call names—to, in short, let the scientific gen¬
tlemen have all the Billingsgate to themselves.
But I can by no means join you in recommending to your
readers to ponder on the logical reasonableness of the fire-mist
theory of man’s immortal spirit. I always thought that The
Spiritualist journal was established to promulgate the investi¬
gation of the subject of the spiritual man as having an existence
apart from the chemical, material man when the latter shall
have become disintegrated ; and, unless I am much mistaken,
Spiritualism takes no note of when and how the spiritual body
joins the chemical body, and confines itself to the proof that
the former lives and moves and has its being when the
latter is no more. We have not a few facts, proofs of this sur¬
vival, but we have nothing but the merest speculative assertion
regarding the origin and junction of the spirit with body ; and
of all the speculative statements on this matter, this of the
fire-mist seems to me the wildest that could well be propounded.
To dignify it with the name of “ theory ” is absurd ; it is the
veriest hypothesis, the purest speculation. If such be “ sci¬
ence,” and if science means “ accurate knowledge,” let us go
back to Plato and his dreams, and leave Bacon and even
Aristotle on the roadside, not troubling ourselves to hold
seances for facts nor reading journals for the record of them;
we can make things just as well “ out of our interior conscious¬
ness.”
For, taking your exposition of the fire-mist speculation, on
what does it all rest ? On the increase of the heat of our
planet’s interior as we descend into it, only a “ portion ” of the
truth of the speculation being sustained by geological facts.
The argument of sequences, as you have it, is something like
this—The interior of the earth being progressively hotter as
you descend, the surface of it, which is now cooler, must at
one time have been as hot as the interior : if it was once as
hot, then there must have been a mist of fire (whatever that
may mean—I am duirenough not to comprehend it), and that
mist must have extended over the whole space now occupied by
our planetary system (why it should not extend beyond that
our ingenious speculator says not); by some means or other
not stated by the speculator this mist began to cool, and cooled
into a planet here and there in the fire space, and plant¬
bearing and animal-bearing surfaces gradually were formed on
them until the stratum on which man with his spirit ap¬
peared ; therefore, man’s spirit is evolved out of the fire-mist,
if there was such a mist, and the heat of the earth’s interior
proves there was!
Surely, Sir, you cannot be in earnest in presenting this in¬
tellectual food for the digestion of painstaking Spiritualists,
who, after twenty-eight years of numberless seances only pre¬
tend to have discovered satisfactorily that a spirit body survives
the flesh body, with its attributes of intelligence and certain
powers over inanimate nature ? You surely cannot expect we
should leave our small but sure proofs of spiritual existence
beyond carnal existence for such moonshine science
(called “ accurate knowledge ”) as this arrogant settlement
of planetary creation and spiritual commencement, this huge
house of cards founded on a huge if! I would beseech
you not to occupy pages wherein we seek for further light oh
our subject of spirit-life hereafter, with such “ accurate know¬
ledge ” as Mr. Tyndall’s speculations on the origin of spirit in
a fire-mist. The “ lower literature ” of Spiritualism may call
names, but I doubt whether it would venture to treat
Spiritualists with a dissertation on fire-mist and the soul,
emanating from men who call Spiritualists idiots. We hear
from the world of science that a new religion,, the religion of
science, is to be the religion of the future. Aye, truly, and the
men of science have a mind to be the popes and high priests
of the new religion, promulgating dogmas, hurling anathemas,
and treating with the inquisitorial fires of contumely and
abuse all who dare to think for themselves, and refuse to
accept their charlatan speculations for orthodox and irrefrag¬
able truth.* I am not one of those who are frightened by
their anathemas, or stand in awe of the “ intellects ” which
you tell us we cannot comprehend. I believe that intellects
and moral notions as narrow and commonplace as are to be
found in any class of men are to be found in the speculators
who are called men of science, and who give us hypotheses
like the above as “ accurate knowledge.” J. M. Gully.
Dr. Gully’s statement that the article called upon us
to respect men who stigmatise Spiritualists as “idiots,”
“ drivelling fools,” “ victims of arrant cheats and
rogues,” is an error; there was no such remark in it/
We are not aware that more than five or six scientific
men of note, have expressed any opinion about Spirit¬
ualism at all, and if one of them—which is doubtful—
ever used such abusive epithets, the rest are not
responsible. Nature is the chief recognised weekly
organ in which English men of science record their
opinions; it has not printed a word of abuse of
Spiritualism; on the contrary, the only article it has
published on the subject was one of the fairest and
most gentlemanly every written by a disbeliever; there
was nothing offensive in it, and it urged inquiry.
Dr. Gully’s argument that Spiritualism should deal
only with where the spiritual body goes to and not
where it comes from, will probably not be endorsed by
Spiritualists at large. Should a man who studies
horses ignore the existence of ponies ?
Then Dr. Gully calls the fire-mist theory “our”
theory; in the first place we did not even endorse it,
but have no objection on the present occasion to
characterise it as about the best one- in existence
relating to fhe physical origin of the solar system. La¬
place originated the nebular theory of the origin of our
solar system, and in all recent text books of astronomy,
and in all the schools of physical philosophy in England
and in intellectual Germany,. it receives the most
serious consideration. If our respected friend Dr.
Gully thinks it to be ridiculous, let him fight the point
out with the scientific world, not with “ us.”
By means of the telescope nebulae extending over
areas larger than our solar system can now be seen,
and really there appears to be no special reason why
they should not cool anjd condense. What is there to keep
them eternally hot? Dr. Gully says: “ By some means
or other not stated by the speculator [that means
“ us ”] this mist began to cool.” If Dr. Gully holds
a red hot poker in the air it will begin to cool, and
why, pray, in the course of an argument should
* There is nothing of this sort either at Section A. of the British Asso¬
ciation, the Royal Society, the Royal Institution, or the columns of Mature,
but a gentlemanly, refined, thoughtful atmosphere, in which Dr. Gully
would feel quite at home, and would feel such hard words to be out of
place. The article did not say or imply that Dr. Gully, or any educated
Spiritualists, “could not comprehend ” their intellects.—Ed.
78
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 13, 1875.
anybody pause to explain why a hot body cools in
space ?
One chief object of the article was clearly stated,
namely, to point out how commonly from our platforms
the word “science” is used in mistake for “ material¬
ism;” science means “ accurate knowledge,” and any¬
body who says Spiritualism is not a science con¬
demns it, because he virtually alleges that Spirit¬
ualism is unreliable. Then again; it is a perfectly
legitimate thing to record various 'speculations as to the
development of the human spirit, especially as nobody
knows it§ origin. In nature we see “continuity”
everywhere, and it is very questionable whether those
who arbitrarily divorce matter and spirit are in the
right. As a great philosopher has said, matter is at
the root essentially spiritual and transcendental.
We have also received the following letter on the
same sqbject:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sib,—I was much gratified to find by the tone of your last
week’s leader that you are not one of those who claim to have
gained at a cheap cost, that is, for ;the mere asking from the
spirits, that knowledge which the accumulated efforts of
centuries of scientific research have not yet revealed to the
earnest and reverend student of natural phenomena. Though
the man of science learns more surely than the man of creeds
to “ look through nature up to nature’s God,” yet he does not
venture to speculate on the nature of Him who, in the
Psalmist’s metaphor, “ holds the worlds in the hollow of His
hands,” and whose minutest work it often requires a lifetime
of careful study to analyse and comprehend. How much
more of reverence and purity dwells in the heart of one who
sits conning like a child the fairy books of nature, thinking
no one of her wondrous volumes unworthy of his devout at¬
tention, who is never weary of following her lead, holding on
to her hand, and listening to every sound that falls from her
lips, than in one who, being momentarily arrested in a life of
open immorality, or roused from a state of lethargic indifference
to active duty, confidently asserts that he has found “ the
Lord!” Is it any wonder that the earnest student of natural
science -should shrink from the vulgar handling by the
Moodys and Sankeys of the day of subjects which he feels to
be so grand, mysterious, and sacred ? How can he stand by
and patiently hear them glibly tell off in one chapter the
whole story of creation, which they have received at second
hand from an Eastern writer’s poetic imaginings some three
thousand years ago, and then hear them praise God for having
revealed the truth to them ?
And there are those in the Churches who, although pro¬
fessing themselves “ miserable sinners ” and “ vile creatures,”
yet claim to know all about their Almighty Creator—His place
of abode, His method of working, His secret counsels, and His
vast designs. It seems to me to have been in a far truer
spirit of humility, born of that knowledge which teaches man
his own ignorance, that the grand old Greeks raised an altar
to the “Unknown God.” Even the Jews, whose conception of
Him was narrow and anthropomorphic, did not suffer Him to
be named in the great congregation ; whereas the narrow
orthodoxy of the modern Churches would explain all His
ways, and use His name with a vulgar familiarity in their
vain repetitions. And so among us Spiritualists there exist
those who think they can learn of Him by questioning the
“ Johns ” and “ Peters ” of our spirit circles, who occasion¬
ally, with more wisdom than their interrogators, confess that
they have not seen Him, neither know Him any better than
some on earth. In a communication professing to have come
from the spirit of Socrates, that remarkable sage was fain to
own that whereas on earth he had thought to know some¬
thing of the Highest, he now, after two thousand years of
progression towards Him, felt himself further than ever from
the Source of all Life and Light, and from any definite know¬
ledge of His Inner Essence.
So far from proving an advanced religious state, the desire
to “ explain ” and account for everything now argues a want
of faith, a narrow conception of Almighty power and of the
future capabilities of the human race. Spiritualism should
surely teach us, among other lessons—in the presence of the
stupendous facts which it reveals—more humility, and more
appreciation^ of those who, if they have not been led to our
facts, have taught us the only true method of investigating
them, and have supplied us with others with which to compare
and correlate our own. Student.
Had it not been for the discoveries and influence of
the scientific world, wo Spiritualists should now be
all roasting at Smithfield as witches an d warlocks, Dr.
Gully included, so we trust he feels a little gratitude
on that account.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday evening a Council meeting of the British
National Association of Spiritualists was held at the Rooms
of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, London, under
the presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The other members
present were Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
Keningale Cook, Miss Houghton, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. George
King, Mr. Morell Theobald, Mrs. Everitt, Miss Withall, Mr.
E. Parkinson Ashton, and Mr. H. T. Humphreys.
NEW MEMBEBS. ' •
The following new members were elected: Mrs. Edmands,
Mr. A. M. Hart, Mrs. A. F. Bellingere, Dr. T. L. Nichols, and
Mr. J. T. Rhodes.
Colonel P. Jacoby, of Brussels, was elected a honorary
member, and the following letter from him was read:—
“Bruxelles, 21 Juillet, 1875.
“ Chore et Honoree Dame,—J’ai 1’honneur de vous informer
que j’accepte avec plaisir la proposition que vous me faites
1’honneur de me transmettre par votre lettre du 17 courant,
d’etre 41u membre correspondant honoraire de votre grande
Association Spiritualiste, dont j’apprecie la grandeur et le
noble but.
“ Yeuillez, je vous prie, agreer pour vous, Madame, etpour le
Commits, mes remerciments bien sinceres, et 1’assurance de
mon profond respect. P. Jacoby,
“ Lt.-Colonel, Bue de Vienne, 11, Bruxelles.’’
The following ladies and gentlemen were then invited to
become honorary members of the Association: Mr. Z. Test, M.D.,
of Cayuga County, U.S.A.; Mdlle. Huet, of Paris; Professor
Butlerow and Professor Wagner, of St. Petersburg; Mr.
O’Sullivan and Comte de Bullet, of Paris.
There were no resignations.
THE PBESIDENOY OF THE ASSOCIATION.
The Secretary then read the following letter from Mr.
Martin R. Smith:—
“ Heathlands, Wimbledon Common, S. W.,
“ 26th July, 1875.
“ Dear Miss Kislingbuey,—I cannot but be deeply sensible
of the honour which has been done to me in offering to me the
Presidency of the National Association of Spiritualists.
“ Howeverunworthy I may feel of such a post it is one which
I would gladly have accepted,'in the hope that I might have
been enabled to render some service to the cause which we
have at heart; but, after much consideration, and with much
regret, I am obliged to decline the honour which has through
you been made to me.
“ No man has a right to consult his own feelings and wishes
alone with respect to his course in life. Nay, more, he is often
obliged to act directly at variance with them. It is so with me
in this case; and in deference to what I conceive to be my duty
to others I must at present refrain from taking any public
position with regard to Spiritualism.
“ I beg you to convey to the Council my thanks for the great
honour it has been their intention to confer upon me, and to
express to them my hope that I may be, in a private capacity,
as useful as I could possibly have been as president of the
Association.—Believe me, very truly yours,
“Martin R. Smith.
“ To Miss Kislingbury,
“Secretary, British Nat. Assn, of Spiritualists.”
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that he knew that Mr. Smith did not
accept the Presidency because it would deeply grieve some
of his nearest friends if he took that position.
Mr. Ashton deeply regretted that Mr. Smith could not take
the position, because his work in connection with the Asso¬
ciation had endeared him to all Spiritualists.
Other speakers made remarks to the same effect.
FINANCE COMMITTEE’S REPORT.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the Finance Committee’s Report
to July 14th, which showed a balance in hand of £88 4s. 7d.,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
Aug. 13, 1875.
and recommended bills for payment to the amount of £20;
it estimated the outstanding liabilities of the Association at £5.
GIFTS TO THE ASSOCIATION.
The Secretary announced the gift to the Association of a
portrait of Mr. D. D. Home, by Mr. Piokersgill, E.A.; also a
portrait of the late Robert Owen, taken in his younger days,
by the same artist, both presented by Mr. Alexander Oalder.
She also reported the presentation of a handsome marble clock
by Mr. Martin Smith; a framed portrait of Mr. S. 0. Hall,
presented by himself; a copy of Allan Kardec’s Spirits’
Book by Miss \Blaokwell, and all the works on Spiritualism
published by M. Aksakof in Russia and Germany, presented by
himself; none of the books have yet come to hand.
A vote of thanks was given to the donors.
COLLECTION FOR MR. FIRMAN.
The Secretary announced that the sum collected by private
subscription for Mr. Firman amounted to £16 16s. 6d.
THE ALLIANCE OF THE BRIXTON SOCIETY WITH THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
Miss Kislingbury itad the following letter:—
“22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.,
August 4,1875.
“ Dear Madam,—I am requested by the members of the
Brixton Psychological Society to ask you to inform the
British National Association of Spiritualists that it is their
wish to be considered in alliance with that Association. I
have also the pleasure of informing you that at our last
Council Meeting you (as Secretary of the British National
Association ofg Spiritualists) were unanimously elected a
honorary member of the Brixton Psychological Society.—I re¬
main, madam, faithfully yours,
“ H. C. Frances, Hon. Sec.”
It was moved by Mr. E. P. Ashton, seconded by Mr. Rogers,
and carried unanimously, that the proposed alliance be entered
into, Mr. Rogers remarking that he was glad to see the friends
in Brixton working in harmony with the Association.
The Secretary reported that she had been elected a hono¬
rary member of L’Union Spirite et Magnetique at Brussels.
CHEAP SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
The following letter from Mr. Harrison was then read :—
“ August 10,1875.
“ To the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
“ Ladies and Gentlemen,—As there is a demand in the
movement for cheap and useful literature for distribution, I
am preparing tracts and information for inquirers, which may
either be given away or in the case of tracts sold for a half¬
penny or a penny each. I shall be very glad during the
present year to advertise the National Association in them
without charge, and to supply the Association with them at
only ten per cent, over what they cost me, in order to cover
risk of possible loss over the remainder.
“ The paper I read before the Dalston Society will be pub¬
lished in a few days in the form of a neatly printed little
book, which will be circulated, not only in this country, but
by Messrs. Colby and Rich in America. As no Council
meeting was held about the time it went to press, I took the
liberty of writing out a short advertisement about the Asso¬
ciation, and have published it at the end of the book.—Very
truly yours, William H. Harrison.”
DR. SEXTON’S LECTURES.
The sum of £2 2s. was voted in aid of Dr. Sexton’s lecture,
at the Cavendish Rooms, on the motion of Mr. E. T. Bennett,
seconded by Mr. K. Cook, who both spoke highly of the work
Dr. Sexton was doing.
THE PERIODICAL SOIREES.
It was resolved that the next soiree should be held on Wed¬
nesday, September 1st, and it was announced that M. Aksakof
would reach London at the close of September, and Mr. Morse
early in October, it having been suggested that they should
be received at a subsequent soiree.
The question of the cost of soirees was gone into to some
extent, and it appeared that by the purchase of permanent
property they would probably become self-supporting. The
Finance Committee was asked to draw up a report on the
receipts and expenditure..
A letter from Mr. Morse was read, asking whether the Asso¬
ciation would engage him for certain Sunday lectures during
his short stay in England. It was resolved that the Secretary
should enter into correspondence with him for the purpose of
negotiating for a series of weekly seances to be given on the
premises of the Association.
The following motion by Mr. George King was then read :
“ That a committee be appointed to make arrangements for
holding at the rooms of the Association a series of meetings at
which lectures could be delivered, papers read, and discussions
carried on, on subjects connected with the objects of the Asso¬
ciation.” Mr. King argued that meetings ought to be held on
the premises of the Association, to discuss matters connected
with Spiritualism, just the same as other learned societies dis¬
cussed subjects in which they were interested.
Mr. E. T. Bennett seconded this, saying that it was a very
important and beneficial motion.
Mr. Humphreys said that it was one of the best practical
steps which had yet been taken towards carrying out the objects
of the Association.
A committee was then appointed, consisting of Mr. George
King, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. T. Humphreys, Mr. E. P.
Ashton, Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, with
power to add to their number.
FREE SEANCES.
Mr. G. R. Tapp reported that Mr. E. D. Rogers had been
elected permanent chairman of the Free Seances Committee.
He also stated the regulations under which inquirers would
be admitted to the said seances. He said that the committee
had resolved not to hold any materialisation. seances for the
present: there were doubts and difficulties in connection with
them, and such seanees should be attended only by Spirit¬
ualists and by persons who understood conditions, for it was a
fact that the mental nature of the sitters had an influence
upon the manifestations, and antagonistic persons were likely
to obtain suspicious results which others would not.
THE ANNUAL NATIONAL CONFERENCE.
In the absence of Mr. Everitt, Mr. E. D. Rogers moved that
the Annual National Conference of Spiritualists be held in the
rooms of the Association towards the close of the month of
October. He said that it Was almost guaranteed at the start¬
ing of the Association that they should have a Conference every
year, and the possession of rooms would render the heavy
expenses of the last one unnecessary. He did not know that
much publicity was desirable over the next Conference, for
there had been unpleasantnesses in the spiritual world of late.
If the Council desired more publicity, it might advertise in
other than spiritual papers.
Mr. Keningale Cook seconded the motion.
There was a division as to the month in which the Con¬
ference should be held, November gaining the day by the cast¬
ing vote of the chairman.
Mr. E. P. Ashton asked whether it was desirable that emi¬
nent men in literature and science should be invited to attend
the Conference.
Mr. Tapp said, “ You may call spirits from the vasty deep,
but will they come ?” I think they will not, but some of
them may write unpleasant letters, and the Council should
only give a general invitation.
The Conference Committee was then appointed, consisting
of Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. Humphreys, Mr. E.
T. Bennett, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. Withall, and Mr. R. Pearce.
It was further resolved that the Conference should sit for
two days, holding two sittings upon each day.
Mr. E. P. Ashton gave notice of motion that at the next meet¬
ing he would raise the question of the desirability of inviting
eminent men to come to the Conference.
Mr. Tapp gave notice of motion that no person should be
elected a member of the Council until he had been an ordi¬
nary member for a period of not less than three months.
Printed copies of the new rules were laid on the table; Mr.
Tapp said that he had examined them thoroughly, and thought
them to be faultless; they did great credit to Mr. Rogers,
who had done such a large proportion of the work of drawing
them up.
The proceedings then closed.
In a private letter to a friend, dated Hammonton, New
Jersey, U.S., July 21st, Mr. J. M. Peebles says: “ I was very
nearly jumping on to the steamer a few days since and running
over to Liverpool and London for a week or ten days, but
finally put it off till next year. I am exceedingly busy lec¬
turing and writing. This fall I am going to attend a course
of medical lectures to post myself up in physiology and
anatomy.”
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
(KoTOspminence.
[Qreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
A FEW SUGGESTIONS.
Sib,—Several gentlemen, and ladies also, who were some
time ago led to the study of Spiritualism, and have been
greatly assisted therein by the perusal of the varied contents
of The Spiritualist newspaper, have expressed a desire “ to
interchange right hands ” with you. As they have received
help through the organ of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, they are desirous to do something to help the
circulation of that organ, that it may become more widely
known and appreciated, as it deserves to> be. The idea sug¬
gested is, that the various circles and local societies through¬
out the three kingdoms should in some way become allied to
the British National Association, and contribute a regular
yearly or half-yearly subscription to its funds. Then, for the
purpose of keeping themselves well acquainted with the pro¬
gress of Spiritualism, that they adopt The Spiritualist news¬
paper as the recognised paper of the local society, procuring
copies both for distribution to strangers, and also as their own
“ household weekly.” L may say that to my own knowledge
several persons have given orders for The Spiritualist, because
theyfeltthey could, withoutfear ofrevulsion,lendorgiveitaway
to their neighbours and friends. Should other local societies
have seen, or be led to see, the necessity of adopting such a
course as has been suggested, I trust they will be encouraged
to take immediate action. Could not the National Association
Library be made available for local societies, and books be lent
’jput if due security were given, and carriage paid? Are
printed catalogues to be had ?
Nonno Bissolum.
[The writer of the above letter makes a mistake in supposing The
Spiritualist to be the organ of the National Association. The Association
and this journal both believe in friendly union among Spiritualists, in or¬
ganisation, in elected representatives, and in published and properly cer¬
tified accounts. So in the bonds of principle and of spirituality of charac¬
ter, the Association and this journal work very harmoniously together.
"We have struck out from the above letter some complimentary remarks
about The Spiritmlist, and some uncomplimentary remarks about our neigh¬
bours.—Ed.].
DB. TEST’S DEPABTUBE FOB AMEBICA.
Sib,—On the eve of my departure for my native land, I wish
to acknowledge the pleasure and satisfaction I have derived
during the weeks of my stay in this city, in visiting—as I
have done almost daily—the reading-room of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street.
Every one coming, like myself, an entire stranger to the great
city, must fully realise and appreciate the privilege and im¬
portance of the opportunity here afforded to Spiritualists from
abroad of becoming acquainted with each other and with
leading English Spiritualists, to say nothing of the liberal
supply and attractive variety of reading matter, both Spirit¬
ualistic and miscellaneous, which the shelves and the table
of the room so abundantly furnish, among which, from the
first, I have hailed with especial interest and pleasure the
weekly appearance of The Spiritualist, with its full record of
Spiritualistic news and doings, its able and impartial discus¬
sion of the latest facts and phases of the movement*, and its
instructive array of things “new and old.”
Bidding you and the Association a hearty God-speed in your
noble aims and endeavours, I remain faithfully yours,
Z. H. Test.
London, Aug. 5th, 1875.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION ELECTIONS.
Sib,—As one of the members of the National Association
of Spiritualists, I should like some information upon the fol¬
lowing point, if any one will kindly furnish me with the same.
As I understand it, it was found necessary, in order to comply
with the requirements of the Board of Trade in the event of our
enrolment, to introduce the proxy voting system at the annual
election of Councillors, in order to enable those members to
vote who could not attend the meetings. But the Board of
Trade not having enrolled the society, I wish to know whether
a better mode of electing officers has been replaced in the
rules. I believe the original plan was to send round a paper
to all the members, containing the names of the Spiritualists
recommended by the Council for election, and that each
member was at liberty to strike out any or all the names, and
to insert the names of any other person or persons if he
Aug. 13, 1875.
pleased. This is a much better plan than that of giving my vote
to some one else, and permitting him to vote for me by proxy ;
first of all because he might vote for some one I did not like,
unless I previously made a special arrangement with him to
the contrary; and secondly, because he might vote upon other
matters in a different way to that which I desired, and which
I would rather have left to the decision of the individuals
present at the debate, without any one of them having extra
influence by means of proxies. This matter deserves atten¬
tion, since one of the greatest benefits of the Association
is the extra freedom which it gives to its members, because its
accredited representatives have first to be invited and elected
to come to the front, and cannot appoint themselves. X.
VEGETAEIANISM AND SPIBITUALISM.
Sib,—A year or two ago I raised some questions in your
columns which I wish had been more fully answered by those
who possess information upon the subject, namely, What is
the influence of an exclusively vegetable diet upon medium-
ship and upon health ?
Since that letter was written to you so many cases have
passed under my notice that I know for certain that there are
many individuals, also some parents and their whole families,
who never touch animal food, yet are healthy and strong ; so
when doctors say that animal food is absolutely necessary for
man, the remark is probably due to want of thought, and to
the influence upon their ideas of prevalent social habits. In
the days of the Georges, when some of our gentry vied with
each other to see how many bottles of wine they could drink
before they fell under the table, it was a bad time for either
doctors or individuals to say a word in favour of teetotalism.
I have tried going without animal food for three or four
days at a time, and the effect upon me was that I could think
more clearly, and was better fitted temporarily for mental
labour; but at the end of a few days I found myself getting
weak, with a strong desire for meat growing upon me. This
antagonistic influence may have been from hereditary bias,
from the influence of which it is much easier for some people
to take a certain line of action in life than it is for others to
do the same thing; and the mistake is, that the former
sometimes arrogate to themselves superior virtues, without
taking differences of constitution into account.
I have a friend with feeble medial powers who tried a
vegetable diet, but the experiment did not succeed. He grew
weaker and weaker, but had the most beautiful visions of the
world to come. Although he was perfectly happy in this
experience, he thought it was not his duty to enter that world
before his time for the sake of abstaining from mutton chops,
so he seceded from the vegetarian faith.
Putting these slender experiences together, it seems that
vegetable diet will do for some people, and will not do for
others. Perhaps investigation will show that the children of
large meat-eaters would be killed if they were forced to live on
purely vegetable diet.
Sir John Lubbock’s little daughter once remarked to her
brother—“Johnny, if you eat so much goose you will go
silly.” Savages and children think very much alike. No
doubt the child came to this conclusion by the same process
of reasoning which induces some savages to think they can
make themselves warlike and fierce by eating the flesh of the
tiger. These ideas I take to be false, because some of the
vegetarians I know are among the most impracticable and
pugnacious individuals to be found anywhere; cabbages and
watercregses are not pugnacious, so if animal food caused the
pugnacious qualities of these men, their temperaments pro¬
bably originated from their accidentally eating earwigs in a
cabbage. One of your Manchester correspondents who op¬
posed me furnishes an instance in point. He gave me, quite
unnecessarily, some hard knocks for writing anonymously.
Now, anonymous arguments stand upon their own merits ; for
instance, supposing this letter to be written by the Prince of
Wales—and I do not say that it is not—it would carry undue
influence; but, under the present circumstances, the argu¬
ments in it go for exactly what they are worth. Your corre¬
spondent on that occasion being the leader of a local society,
no doubt his utterances carried immense weight with his
regular followers, who listen with open mouths to the words of
wisdom which flow from his learned lips. Now, had he
written anonymously, his arguments would have carried
neither more nor less than their proper weight among his
people.
There is a large amount of phosphorus in a combined state
in different parts of the human body, and I am told by medi¬
cal men they are puzzled to know whence a vegetarian gets
Aug. 13, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
81
enough phosphorus to build up his frame. Perhaps some of
our correspondents can explain this.
There is another point. Floating in the air are myriads of
small organisms, living and dead ; these become visible when¬
ever a sunbeam passes into a dark room through a hole in the
shutter. The little motes of organic matter floating in the
air then reflect the light of the sun in all directions, and
become themselves visible; hence every vegetarian takes
into his body a quantity of uncooked live animals every time
he breathes. I point this out for the benefit of those excep¬
tional vegetarians who attack all who do not agree with them.
Thus the only way to avoid animal food is to stuff the nose
with cotton-wool, to tie a bag over the mouth, and to breathe
through a tube also plugged with cotton-wool. X.
SPIBITUALISM IN GERMANY.
Sir,—Spiritualism in Germany in general shows very little
progress since last year. Every account of positive fraud is
eagerly taken up by the papers and breaks the power of
advance from other quarters seriously. The Paris scandal
has of course done its work, and the lamentable insanity of
Mr. E. Dale Owen is put down as in close connection with the
American “ imposture.” In my native town, Altona, I found
a little more inclination to listen to reports supported by
scientific names, but one sarcastic or jocular remark is suffi¬
cient to neutralise all. In Leipzig, too, the want of mediums,
and consequently facts, prevents success to a great extent. I
felt, however, great delight in making the acquaintance of
Count de Poninzky, whose youthful vigour and energy com¬
mand admiration and respect, and every step towards recog¬
nition of the fundamental facts, his labours as a lecturer will
turn to great account; at present his assertions have to stand
a considerable amount of opposition and ridicule.
In a conversation with a learned friend in Leipzig, I learnt
that Mr. Crookes was condemned to oblivion on account of his
being a Spiritualist (I hope Mr. Crookes will not break down
under this sentence), but I was startled further to hear that
Professor Tyndall shared the same fate, he having turned a
Spiritualist too. I suggested that this “ miracle ” was quite
of new date, but was informed of its being an old story, so I
gave up all attempts to trace out this amusing misunder¬
standing. It smacks of fanatical materialism, which stamps
every sign of religious sentiment as a confession of Spirit¬
ualism.
An indication of decided progress I found in three leading
articles in the Mclrkisclic Kirchenzeitung (clerical paper).
Here the phenomena were fairly admitted to be genuine, and
not all done by tricks, but the “ devil ” is the culprit. Now,
as the new truth cannot as yet be introduced by the hand of a
learned professor of science, let us be thankful that his
majesty undertakes the ceremony, for he, too, has many
friends and admirers, and interest will be increased ; at all
events it is refreshing to see the stupid theory of conjuring
put aside, and the juggler sent back to his own proper field of
action. In conclusion, here, in my present abode, I meet
people from different parts of Germany, and must confess
I find a very marked improvement in the disposition to look
at another side of the question than that afforded by fashion
and by newspapers. No lectures, no theories, but mediums—
this is what we want. Chr. Eeimebs.
Pontresina, Switzerland, Aug. 5th,
SPIRITUALISM AND MATERIALISM.
Sir,—Some time ago you said you agreed with the opinion
expressed by so many of your correspondents as to the pro¬
priety of keeping the pages of The Spiritualist free from
theological disputations. I have certainly no wish to trans¬
gress that rule, and only wish to say that if the pure and
simple materialist doctrine advocated in the long quotation
from “ The author of Charlie Lufton, Appleton Wiske,” with
which you favour your readers in your yesterday’s number, be
true, Spiritualism is a mere absurdity. He says, “ What we
call mind is developed along with the growth of the body,
decays as it decays,” and—as we are bound to suppose he also
believes—dies when it dies. If this be so, what, then, becomes
of all the spirits of the dead theory and belief of which we
hear so much from week to week ? Possibly, even supposing
the materialist doctrine to be accepted as true, there may still
remain some little interest for a limited number of people in
the investigation of what is presently called Spiritualistic
phenomena, but most assuredly the spiritual theory par excel¬
lence must be held as the dream of fools, and all this mighty
business of National Association of Spiritualists and agitation
of two Continents to be on account of a thing of no more
general interest than the discovery of a new snail, or of a
recently discovered weed. 1 need scarcely add that the argu¬
ments used by “ Appleton Wiske ” have been answered a
thousand times. A. T.
Peebles.
[We entirely agree with the contents of this letter, and quoted the article
to show the kind of opposition Newcastle Spiritualists have to meat—also
in accordance with the usual habit of this journal of hearing both sides of
every question.—Ed.]
LIVERPOOL.
The Liverpool Psychological Society is making arrange¬
ments for another visit from Mrs. Tappan.
Mr. Taylor, trance medium, of Keighley, occupied the
platform of the Psychological Society on Sunday afternoon
and evening, Mr. J. Coates in the chair.
Mesmerio seances are conducted by Mrs. Meredith at the
Psychopathic Institute every Tuesday evening at 8 p.m.
These are fairly attended.
Open-Air Mission. — The Liverpool Psychological Society
has recognised this effort by voting that 1,000 of Mr. J. J.
Morse’s lectures be given to aid Mr. Coates in his open-air
work'.
The Psychopathic Institute. — Mrs. Hardy’s seances gave
universal satisfaction to over eighty visitors, received by her
during a short stay at the Psychopathic Institute. On Sunday
and Monday evenings public sittings were arranged, the com¬
pany sitting in two circles around the cabinet table. Mrs. Hardy
sat at the table with the rest of the sitters. There was sufficient
light to clearly distinguish every person and thing in the room.
Spirit-hands darted rapidly in and out of the aperture in the
centre of the table, answering questions, gripping hands, and
making friendly gestures. Large hands, white and black, came,
also little children’s; one hand without a thumb, also one with
three fingers. Mr. John Lament received correct answers to
questions in the Gaelic language, whilst Dr. Hitchman had
ample demonstration of jthe presence, power, and intelligence
of spirit-friends who had gone over to the other side. The
seances were attended by the most prominent Spiritualists of
this town.
Mrs. Hardy's Seances.—“ To the Editor of the Spiritualist.—
Sir,—During Mr. and Mrs. Hardy’s stay with us in Liverpool,
we had the privilege of being present at a most marvellous
seance, quite impromptu in fact. I do not know whether any
of the readers of The Spiritualist have been equally fortunate.
We had just sat down to breakfast, the party consisting of
Mr. and Mrs. Hardy, Mr. Mahoney, and Mr. Smith, of
Birmingham, Mr. Isaac, Mrs. Coates, and myself, enjoying the
good things provided, and having a little social chat (Mr.
Hardy and I talking over our experiences during the civil war
in the United States), when lo ! the table began to move, first
in one direction and then in another, and for a short time
defied the law of gravitation by remaining suspended in the air
from four to six inches from the floor, sufficiently long for
every person present to take distinct notice of it. Then fol¬
lowed a volley of raps, joyously indicating the presence of our
spirit-friends, and that they were taking an interest in our con¬
versation. They seemed apparently unhampered with con¬
ditions ; the breakfast cloth at its deepest, being a foot over
the edge of the table, gave a little subdued light underneath,
but even this did not seenfrequisite. All of us who sat round
the table were touched by something like hands or fingers, and
that j below the shade of the cloth. Mr. Isaac asked if the
spirits present could shake hands with him ; immediately raps
answered yes: putting his hands under the table he had a
hearty grip and a jolly shake hands. All this time the beams
of the morning sunlight streamed in through the window, and
my legs, from their position, were frequently touched in the
light. The power at last seemed exhausted, and with raps
and movements our good spirit-friends bade us good morning,
after a truly enjoyable sitting, quite as unexpected as it was
profitable, being, as well, an evidence of the genuineness of Mrs.
Hardy’s unique mediumship. Short as was her stay at our
house, it was long enough to endear her to us. On Tuesday
the 3rd inst. she sailed for Boston in the steamship Batavia,
and was accompanied to the landing-stage by Captain and
Mrs. Waterman, who saw Mrs. Hardy and her good husband
off. I sincerely wish them a safe journey home, continued
success, and speedy return to renew the acquaintance so
82
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 18, 1875.
happily begun.—Jas. Coates, .74, Queen’s-road, Everton,
Liverpool, August 7th, 1875.”
• NEWCASTLE - ON-TYNE.
A Seance with Miss Wood.—Last Sunday evening about
twenty members of the Newcastle Psychological Society met at
their rooms in the Freemasons’ Old Hall,Weir’s-court,Newgate-
street. Miss Wood was present, and was placed in a chair ;
her wrists were fastened by straps to its arms; two paper
tubes, a concertina, handbell, and tambourine were placed
underneath, after which the members formed a circle round
her with joined hands. On the light being put out, one spirit
spoke through her, and another through Mr. Crawford, one of
the circle. Judging from the exclamations of those present,
the power was very strong, as taps upon various sitters fell
thick and fast; the touches from hands and the playing of
instruments on the heads of those present following so rapidly
the humorous remarks from one of the spirits, left no room
for doubt as to the genuineness of the manifestations.
LEICESTEB.
The Useof Spirit Communion.--A Leicester gentleman writes:
“ A remarkable private seance was held a short time ago at the
house of a gentleman in Leicester, who, with his wife, is an
earnest and sincere inquirer into the wonderful verities of
spiritual phenomena. Previous seances had been held, and
startling and undeniable manifestations, both physical and
otherwise,, had been obtained. But the old and pardonable
query, ‘ What good ?’ was agitating the mind of the lady of
the house, though unknown to others. Secretly and within
herself she asked—‘ Does not sitting create morbid excite¬
ment ? Does it not unfit us for the daily routine of duty ?’
We met at eight p.m., and were in number three ladies and
five gentlemen, including two mediums, one a lady and the
other a gentleman. Being seated round the drawing-room
table, various raps were given in answer to questions, and
ultimately the table was raised from the floor without contact.
The lady medium on becoming entranced gave most remark¬
able proof of spirit identity ; her body and arms Were strangely
contorted, portraying most accurately the affliction of a
relative of some of the sitters, who died some time ago, and
who was at once recognised. Other tests or identifications
were" also given to other sitters. The other medium being
entranced, gave the following address on the Cui hono query
so aptly, that it seemed, as the hostess said, as if her mind and
thoughts had been laid bare to the speaker:—
' “ ‘ Dear friends,—It is well that you should seek for tests and proofs un¬
deniable of the truth of spirit existence. These are a real primary neces¬
sity—a necessity both for individuals and the world at large; as without
these tests none but those who possess faith in a very high degree, and
those who are peculiarly susceptible to mesmeric influences, would ever
accept the truth of spirit communion. I say spirit communion in contra¬
distinction from the so-called angelic communion which is admitted to be
recorded in the Word of God! Yet when these tests have been obtained
and duly applied, you should also then seek for that counsel and instruc¬
tion which shall enable you better to think and to live here and hereafter.
By seeking for these the whole moral tone of your earthly life will be
raised, the spiritual faculties quickened, and the intuitions of the soul
deepened: so that you will be enabled to understand in its inner depth of
grander beauty the life and death of Him who is the great Saviour of men.
You will receive- purer and holier conceptions of God, and of the truer
reality of your duties and relationships to the spirit world. Excitement
will pass away, and a holy peace and calm shall rest upon your souls,
which you will know and feel to be no morbid excitement but an inward
living truth. E. N.’
“ Shortly after this address, so weightily delivered, our
seance was brought to a close. The initials given purport to
be those of Eliphalet Nott. Can your readers give us any in¬
formation respecting the person ? Clericus.”
M. Aksakob informs us that, as the Conference of
Naturalists at Gratz, in Styria, Austria, will be sitting from
the 18th to the 25th of September, he and Professor Butterof
cannot reach London till towards the close of that month.
A new monthly journal devoted to Spiritualism has
appeared at Ostend, called De Rots (The Bock) and is written
partly in French and partly in Flemish, so as to reach both
classes of the Belgian population. Ostend has also an active
Spiritualist society.
In an article on Australia contained in Fraser's Magazine
for May, 1868, is the following passage: “ In Victoria and
Tasmania the Government contributes aid to every church
that chooses to claim it, in the ratio of the numbers belonging
to the several sects, audit also subsidizes the Jews, who declare
all Christians to be blindly labouring in superstition and in¬
sanely misreading the Scriptures they pretend to have built
upon.”
OBSERVATION'S ON MEDIUMS.
BY LISETTE MAICDOTJGALL GREGORY.
The time appears to have arrived when it may be
useful to analyse and distinguish between mediumship
and Spiritualism.
The first may be the means of manifesting wonder^
ful and startling phenomena, without imparting any
spiritual life, or even aspiration for it, but the true
Spiritualist is polarised to God, and is filled with a
Divine power which interpenetrates his whole being,
influencing his life and actions, yet he himself may be
powerless to produce any outward manifestation of
mediumship.
These thoughts have been suggested to my mind by
the shallowness and worldly nature of some of the
messages given, even when they have not been alto¬
gether false. Bearing this fact in mind, and having
my feelings much exercised on account of a friend
who, I feared, did not realise the great gulf which
too frequently divides these two natures, I requested
a lady who combines in herself largely these qualifi¬
cations, and whom Providence seemed to have cast
in my way, to obtain from her spirit-guides some
message of instruction upon this subject. The fol¬
lowing was the result:—
Let mediums ask themselves, what motive guides them in
their mediumship.
Let them ask themselves, what are the feelings left after¬
wards on their own spirit.
Sometimes mediumship is caused by the influence of low
spirits, who work their earthly mediums as machines, without
caring what becomes of them, until the hour arrives when
they have used out of them all they care for, and leave them
as an empty wreck stranded on a desert shore; there is no
vitality to quicken and bring life into their minds. But
spiritual mediumship is this : high, and holy, and honourable
spirits hold converse with an earth-spirit; they treat him
always as a free agent; they consult his good; they instruct
and teach him. If he is obedient, and understands what true
humility means, they speak or write through him living words
of spirit-life, that quicken other souls to life. This life
stretches on through the endless ages of eternity, creating
life in all who come in contact with it.
The first of these is a mirage of the desert, the other a
spring of never-failing water.
Therefore, let mediums of the first class take heed, and be
warned, ere it be too late.
SPIRITUALISM IN AMERICA.
The remarks of Mr. Epes Sargent published in this journal
last week, and the contents of the American spiritual news¬
papers which came to hand a few days ago, show that Spirit¬
ualists on the other side of the Atlantic are in a disturbed,
unhappy state, and the cause of this tribulation becomes
apparent after a little thought. Spiritual phenomena, more
especially the physical manifestations, have been developed
year after year in all directions. Miscellaneous circles of
spectators have observed them in leisure hours in an idle way,
very little money, time, or intelligence being systematically
and regularly expended to ascertain the nature and
the dangers of mediumship, or the best means of keeping off
bad influences from the mesmeric sensitives in whose presence
the manifestations are produced. Until Spiritualists devote
the same time and study and funds to this subject that the
learned societies do to other branches of science, very
disagreeable things will occasionally occur until the trouble
thereby caused forces the seeking for a remedy.
Mrs. Holmes has again been charged with imposture, but to
test her there were antagonistic influences, including a jealous
medium, in the circle, and one sarcastic lady amused herself
by aping the manifestations. Now anybody who has had
experience at such seances knows that with such a circle with
almost any medium questionable manifestations result; why
this is so we do not know: it may be that the sitters bring
low spirits with them who operate upon the medium, or it
may be that their sarcastic and bitter state of mind irritates
&tjg. 13, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
83
some of the lower spirits who ordinarily produce the manifes¬
tations, and who perhaps take a pleasure in increasing the
discord. These remarks are made with no desire to screen
the medium in question, who is known to be untrustworthy,
but taking this particular seance upon its own merits, all the
results may quite possibly have been brought about because
those who made up the circle did not understand conditions.
For some reason or other there is a strong reflex action be¬
tween the sitters and the manifestations, and unless every one
of the'sitters and the medium are spiritually joined together—
if not by affection at least by strong good-will—disagreeable
results are likely to follow. At the same time, it must be
admitted that there are some exceptional mediums and spirits
who will play tricks when there is no fault in the circle, and
when all the sitters have a strong antipathy to anything dis¬
honourable.
The question of the amount of moral responsibility of
powerful mediums requires to be well argued out; it is quite
certain that while in the trance state they are helplessly under
the control of an unseen power ; it is equally certain that
when awake and apparently in their normal state their pas¬
sions, their words, their thoughts, and their actions are very
commonly more or less stimulated by the same power, so
that the problem whether a medium so much under the con¬
trol of spirits that they are able to free him from sealed bonds
in the twinkling of an eye is at any time responsible for his
acts, remains to be solved.
Intelligent and experienced persons ought also to meet and
consider such questions; also to what extent Spiritualism
would be affected by discouraging professional mediumship;
the best methods of keeping away bad spirits from all mediums
at all times should also be ascertained. At present, real ex¬
perimental work, on which a sound philosophy can be built up,
has not often been carried on to a useful extent, so that to
multiply manifestations without understanding those already
evolved, and to carry on proselytising work without possessing
a good philosophy on which the facts already known can be
arranged, and by means of which dangers can be avoided, are
sources of weakness to the movement, and every now and then
will result in troubles analogous to those which have recently
tried the Spiritualists of America and of France.
A SKETCH IN LIGHT COLOURS.
One of our constant duties in this sphere is to go to the
Fields of the Shades, where multitudes flock from your world
in their rest-homes, tp learn of those above them, and in sym¬
pathy with them, or to gaze on such spiritual sights as their
vision is capable of. We teach them very much by flowers—
those of the sweeter and more childish nature. The flowers
are willing messengers from one mind to another. The more
intellectual of our visitants form parties of exploration or
spend their time here as much as they do on earth, in abject
humility before one great teacher or leader of their class.
I should like to give you a picture, if I can find words to do it
with, but the beautiful in this world finds but a brief vocabu¬
lary in yours.
An angel—by which we mean the perfection of what you
call a pair—star-crowned and winged as with beams of light,
leaves his dwelling to go forth with other angels to his labours.
Before I proceed let me apologise already, not for what I have
said, but for your “ words.” “ Star-crowned ” and “ winged ”
sound unreal, and possibly trivial to you. When your soul-
eyes have once beheld these images or signs, you will know
the grace they possess. The star is worn by the Teacher.
The wings are the appanage of the mission-angels, who, with
these wonderful flashes of light, cleave the atmosphere, speed
through repugnant surroundings, and bear themselves swiftly
to that place where they are needed.
The angel on the threshold of his door — adorned and
glorious with his love, taking form in flowers and birds—and
with a glance of affection to all surroundings, opens those
flashing wings and in an instant (not that wondrous thing
which you call an instant, but one of our instants)—in an
instant has vanished. Meantime, in the field of the shades
a dim and doubtful crowd are gathered together waiting in
wishful hope for their Teacher. He is there. They see but
the gleam of light that shoots from his rapid movement, and
he stands in their midst, calm, tranquil, loving, star-crowned.
How they crowd to him, these faint and feeble forms. How
they touch him and gain brighter life in the contact. How
they clasp him and grow strong, he all the while drinking
draughts of divine life from the angelic atmosphere with which
to All and gladden them. Ho turns to them now, fatherly and
motherly friend. He asks their troubles and listens to the
piteous recitals of travail on the earth of misery and dulness
from exclusion from the heavenly spheres—of craving and
thirst for better things not to be reached, with many more
such complaints easily imagined by you, yet perhaps not, for
these are the complaints of the spirit out of its bonds, not of
the spirit while actually in earth-life, and the spirit is in very
different states in the two cases.
And now ho speaks and holds the heart of each in his hand,
touching it with benign and soothing touch. He shows them
the life they must aspire to ; he teaches them to aim at the
next step in the ladder, to climb with patience, not to desire
to jump. He shows them how they must cultivate their own
souls within the narrow limit allowed them with the utmost
care and diligence, looking upwards all the while for that
smile of God which is constantly upon them. How can I tell
you his teaching, for it lies principally in influence, in the
power of contact, in strengthening and binding closer the
link between them through which he is to them the messenger
of God, and the true channel of the Father.—Through the
mediumship of Mrs. K. C.
MR. DALE OWEN’S INSANITY.
The following letter from New Harmony is published by the
Evansville (Ind.) Courier, and we learn it is pronounced “ cor¬
rect in the main,’’ by Mr. Owen’s son, Ernest Dale Owen:
“ Mr. Owen has not been kept confined to his residence, but
has spent most of his time on the streets. When he met his
old friends he would recognise them, and greet them sanely,
but if they called him Mr. 0 wen his unsound mind would soon
display itself by his informing them that his name was not
Owen—he was now Lord , giving himself a lordly title.
One of his sons invariably accompanied him in his rambles
through New Harmony, and the embarrassment and affliction
of the entire family was painful to behold.
“ Mr. 0 wen labours under no particular hallucination, but
always believes himself to be a powerful English nobleman,
with unlimited wealth. The philanthropic plans he has pro¬
posed with his imaginary wealth would make Peabody’s head
swim. Sometimes he imagines he is a great horseman, and
during these moments his mind wanders to wonderful turf
displays, and he then proposes to buy the whole State of Ken¬
tucky for stock-raising, and offers 100,000 dols. therefor. At
other times he will remain in one chair and in one spot for
hours, believing that if he stirs therefrom he will be
assassinated. His children are naturally sensitive regard¬
ing their father’s affliction, and do not allow him much
conversation with persons outside of the family, but some¬
times this cannot be helped. Those who have talked with
the old gentleman say his memory has not deserted him,
as he frequently refers to minute matters which they supposed
were forgotten. What is equally strange is that, since his
insanity, he has not referred to his connection with Katie
King, or to that individual at all, and in no other way except
by prayer has he ever spoken of Spiritualism.
“ During the past two or three days he has become exceed¬
ingly troublesome, and made threats of a murderous nature.
Yesterday his son filed affidavits before John Kilbinger and
Joseph A. Barrett, two life-long friends of the venerable man,
charging their father with insanity, and affirming that he
cannot be allowed to go at large without risk. In the after¬
noon the Justices held an inquest at his residence, at which
Mr. Owen, the physicians, and others were present. The pro¬
ceedings were very quiet, and during them the old man babbled
incoherently all the time, intermingling his talk with fits of
weeping. He was adjudged insane, and the proper papers
were sent to Mt. Vernon to the County Clerk, who will make
application for his admission to the State Lunatic Asylum at
Indianapolis.”—Banner of Light.
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—On Sun¬
day evening last Dr. Sexton was unavoidably absent from
Cavendish Rooms, having received the sudden and unexpected
intelligence that his father had passed away from this life on
Wednesday, the 4th instant, and being therefore compelled to
leave town to be present At the funeral and to attend to the
last wishes of his parent. His place, however, was admirably
filled by Mr. Thomas Shorter, who delivered an interesting and
instructive discourse on “Religion.” Next Sunday, Dr.
Sexton will give the lecture announced for last week, entitled
“ Sacred Things,” when it is to be hoped as many friends will
rally round him as can make it convenient to attend. The
services commence at seven o’clock.
84
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 13, 1875.
THE LATEST NEWS FROM PARIS.
Mb. J. L. O’Sullivan, in the course of a letter containing
the latest news about the persecution of Spiritualists in Paris,
writes to us: “ The police are giving signs of being
down on the Revue Spirite, with a view to its suppression.
It has been published regularly for four years, and the
question is now raised whether all the forms required
by the numerous laws on the press were duly com¬
plied with when it was established. Leymarie is busy
on that question with the police at this moment. Likely
enough that ground enough for its suppression will be found
(especially under the. Etat de Siege'), and Leymarie will be
lucky if he escapes some further penalty for some possible
neglect of all the forms. And so we go, in this nation at the
head of civilisation, and in this Republic ! ”
The former sentence upon M. Leymarie of one year’s imprison¬
ment has been confirmed by the higher court, which would
not hear some of his witnesses, as stated in Mr. O’Sullivan’s
letter in another column.
AN APPARITION.
*51)16Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.) of July 31st, says :—
While certain Spiritualists are unduly exerting themselves
at this time to prove mediums unreliable and the materialistic
manifestations in their presence false, new mediums are being
almost daily developed in the families of respectable people
who are not and never have been Spiritualists. Here follows
an account of the visible presence of a spirit, which we copy
from a secular print, going to prove beyond doubt, as was told
us long ago by spirit-friends would be the case, that within a
few brief years spirits of the departed would bodily walk the
earth and be palpably seen by mortal eyes :—
“ For the last four or five nights the men working at the
New Caledonia shaft have seen a female figure in and around
the works, from one o’clock till three o’clock in the morning.
Several of the men made attempts to get near enough to talk
to and discover who she was, but could not succeed in doing
so. One man, in going home about three o’clock in the
morning, two or three days ago, passed her at the powder
magazine, a short distance away from the mine, and was fol¬
lowed by the figure until he came to the old works of the
Caledonia, when it suddenly vanished from his sight. He is
firmly persuaded that no live woman could have kept as close
to him, at the rate he was going, as the figure did. It will be
remembered that a man met with a violent death at the shaft
some time ago, and this fact, together with what is stated
above, leads some of the men to the conclusion that the figure
is not that of a material woman. Some people may scoff at
the idea of spirits revisiting the earth, but it would be hard to
convince the men at the mine that it was a live woman who
made the unseasonable visits referred to.”
A Spiritualist picnic will take place on Wednesday
the 18th inst., at High Beech. Persons wishing to join the
excursion party should communicate with Mr. R. Cogman, 15,
St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, E., before Sunday the 15th, in order
to allow time for the necessary arrangements to be made.
The Evidence in the Leymarie Trial.—The Secre¬
tary of the National Association has received a copy of the
Proces des Spirites, edited by Mme. Leymarie. It is a volume
of 256 pages, and contains a verbatim report of the Paris
trial, all Buguet’s letters to Leymarie, dating from March,
1874, down to that written from the Prison de Mazas, and
letters attesting to the reality of spirit-photography from
recognised spirit-likenesses. Among the writers are the Comte
de Bullet, Prince Emile de Wittgenstein,. the Countess of
Caithness, M. T. Jauberd, Vice-President of the Civil Tribunal
of France, and the Due N. de Leuchtenberg. M. Devoluet
writes some notes on the manner in which the trial was con¬
ducted, with remarks on the distinction between true and
false spirit-photographs. Mr. Maxwell writes what he would
have said in answer to the President, if he had not been cut
short. In addition are all the carefully drawn-up attestations
of English Spiritualists to the reality of spirit phenomena,
including those of Messrs. B. Coleman, W. H. Harrison,
T. Slater, R. Cooper, C. Blackburn, E. Dawson Rogers, C.
Reimers, P. L. Ronalds, Miss Douglas, and others, which have
been translated into the French language. The volume is
well worth perusing, and will one day be of great historical
interest.
Mrs. C. L. V. Tappan’s address during this month is
13, Lune-street, Saltburn-by-the-Sea, Yorkshire.
Next Wednesday evening, at eight o’clock, Mr. Joseph
Freeman will deliver a discourse at Tarlington Hall, 90,
Church-street, Paddington, on “ The Present Aspect of the
Spiritual Movement.” Discussion is invited. Admission free.
Psychic Phenomena.—Leave not unnoticed the psychic
phenomena in man while you bestow so much attention on the
electric actions of a frog’s muscles. Are there no infusoria
because we cannot see them with the naked eye ? Is the clear
drop of water unpeopled because it appears so to the
unassisted vision ? Roll there no more orbs in the universe
beyond the range of our telescopes ? And now comes the question,
Shall we say thefe is no spiritual organisation because it is
too finely constructed for our senses to apprehend?—Count
Szapary.
M. Leymarie and the Kardec Society.—At a meeting
of the Society for the Continuation of the Works of Allan
Kardec, held in Paris, July 1st, 1875, the conduct of M. Ley¬
marie being approved, he was confirmed in his post as admin¬
istrator of the society. Should the judgment of the Appeal
Court be unfavourable to him, on the 4th August next, he
will remain administrator of the society all the same. The
members, one and all, will stand by M. Leymarie, who pos¬
sesses their entire sympathy and confidence as a sufferer in
the cause of Spiritism.—Messagin’, Aug. 1st.
QOWERBY BRIDGE.—On Sunday, August loth, Mr.
to ROBERT HARPER, of Birmingham, will LECTURE twice at the
Lyceum Hall. At 2.30 p.m. the subject will be “Nature’s Gospel upon
Money, Rent, and profit; ” at 6.30, “ Salvation by Growth.”
Brighton spiritual union rooms, 82, st.
James’s-street, Brighton. Open daily. Seances free on Sundays,
Monday and "Wednesday evenings. As there is no Subscription for Mem¬
bership, the Secretary claims the privilege of each Member being known to
him personally before nomination. All Spiritualist publications on sale.
JOHN BRAY. Hon. Sec.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement J. Coates, Principal.
QOUL READING; or, Psychometrical Delineation
lO OF Character.—J. MURRAY SPEAR announces to his numerous
English Friends that by the aid of Spirit-Intelligences he delineates cha¬
racter, describes mental and spiritual capacities, and sometimes indicates
their future and best vocations for health, business, and harmony. Persons
desiring information of this sort should send him their autograph, stating
age and sex, and forward by Post-office Order Nine Shillings; or for three
delineations. to one address, a Guinea. Address: 2,210, Mount Vernon-
street, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J.Tyerman,
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
nd all Australian Booksellers.
THE SOUL OF THINGS;
OK, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES,
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition.
By William and Elizabeth M. f. Denton.
“ We have here a marvellous book. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet ip makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of anything
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these revelations, it would be
impossible to estimate the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geology as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“ In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar and intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state.”—Norfolk County Journal?
“ There is much extraordinary matter in these pages. It is a volume em-
ph atically deserving of the reader's choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
‘‘ Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of fiction. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
fiction, written in the vivid style which is a part of Mr. Denton’s remark¬
able power.”—American Spiritualist.
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-st., London W.O
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Aug. 13, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. iii
BOOKS ON spiritualism:, psychology mes¬
merism, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Gd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD, ;
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM,’ by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s. ; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN TRE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. Gd.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Od.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraitbs, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diaboiical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by tho Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents : The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Science!and the Supernatural: Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit: The ■ Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit1 and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings:
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit: the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old'Testament and the New: the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo„ 600 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrroundedL The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn hy the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of aT-eview of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
‘ clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and- sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions Illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—"Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the -light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive tbeir instructions.”
6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth. Best edition. Gilt, 10s. Gd.; cheap edition, 7s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT ; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
THE CELESTIAL TELEGRAPH, OR SECRETS OF THE
LIFE TO COME. Proved by many years experiments by means of eight
ecstatic somnambulists. Cahagnet, 10s.
HOW AND WHY 1 BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY ACH8A W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. 0. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. Gd.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. Gd.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. Gd.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. Gd.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. Gd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. Gd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. Gd.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM,
7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. Gd.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. Gd.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P.
Barkas
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd. .
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s..
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By C. M. Burnett. M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1766. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOPATHY; OR, THE TRUE HEALING ART, by
Joseph Ashman. Is.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Aug. 13, 1875,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMEEISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOL0GY.—Continued.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
, of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith.- This work gained the prize
„ >• offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 3s. 6d.
THE COMING MAN.' By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia ' .
The Teacher. „ II. „ . ■ • • •
The Seer. • '„TII,' - „ • • -■.-■* , . • .
The Reformer. . „ IV. , „ - • • • • •
The Thinker. „ V. ‘ . , , . ,
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . . .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . .
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . . ,
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . ...
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People. . . ,
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . ,v .
Death and the After-Life . ’ . . . . . ,
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , ; - ' ' . .' ...
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age .....
Events in the Life of a Seer.. (Memoranda.) . . .
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion. ■ . . ,,
Penetralia; : Containing Harmonial Answers . ’ .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse. .- . . . • . '
The Inner Life', or Spirit Mysteries Explained . . . .
The Temple—on'Disease of Brain and Nerves ....
The Fountain; with Jets of New Meanings . .
Tale'of,a Physician,' or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . ,
Conjugal-Love; Truth v. Theology ,
Morning Lectures ... ...
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 4 0
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 4 0
. 4 0
. 7 6
.■4 0
. 7 6
. 3 0
. 4.0
. 8 0
. 6 6
. .7 6
. 7 6
.60
. 6 0
. 2 6
.30
.76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson). . . . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The.Spiretualist NewspapGr. . . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . • . . . 6 O’
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
Three -Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel)' - . . . . .60
History of;.American Socialisms (Noyes) . .. . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . , . 12 6
Catena of,Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . . .76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 A.D. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B. A.', Trin. Coll., Cam. ? . . . . . . . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre¬
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese •
Classics.Jby James Legge,'D.D., LL.D. ' . . . . . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of'Modem'Spiritualism, Dreams,'Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Bobert H. Collyer, M.D. . . , .20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople . - .12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . . ’ . . ' >.. • .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe.' In three vols. . . . . : v. . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed." Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools . . . ...... ... 1 0
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM ? by . Thomas; Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OE ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
' and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS • HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s, . . .
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY T AM NOT
ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of. this little pam¬
phlet: “There.is in it a good, deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by ■ Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.-
CARTE. DE ' VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling. Each. .
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther'Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J.-M. Peebles-; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
• BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each. 4'i _ • .. . -"
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875. ’
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of. Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
’ Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the 'discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
Experiences of hafed, prince of Persia:
Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The Subscriber, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last five
years, so soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted by
the Spiritual community.1
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 550 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contain,
besides the Experiences of Hafed, about 500 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the greatest interest; ■ Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus ;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory informa ■
tion, an account of the Mediumship . of Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interesting
communications from Ruisdal and Steen, the old Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English—and a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediunlship.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fac¬
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe¬
cially appointed for their production. (For specimens of these see Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) Various ' facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also be given in the body of the work and in the copious
appendix.
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial style,
will be sent to subscribers free for 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive.? copies for the price of 6.-
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without delay to Mrs. Everitf, Lillian-villa, Hen-
don, N.W; - or to Mr. T. Blyton, 74,.Navarino-road,'Dalston.
In the Press and will be shortlypublished in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on tomed paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in th
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of. God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.y—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, II.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron's Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 1?.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of-the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume Gs., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. -T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; And
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O.;
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the,same.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn. in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.O.
