AND JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 130.—(Yol. VI.—No. 8.) LONDON: FEBRUARY 19, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
OTontents.
■Women’s Occupations    85
The Mediumship of the Eddy Brothers   86
Review:—Women’s Labour, 86; The Pet of the Household and How
to Save it  ...       87
House Spirits, Past and Present    .'  87
The Electricity of the Human Body   ... ... ... ... 88
A Trance Address oh Parentage   89
Private Seances:—Seance at Miss Douglas’s—The Mediumship of Mr.
Williams—The Sitters Tied by Spirits—Seance at Mr. George
Neville’s—Mrs. Fay’s Mediumship—Remarkable Manifestations—
Literary Observers—Seance with Mrs. Fay in the Presence of Mr.
Blackburn and Friends     90
Poetry:—Bought and Sold...      92
Correspondence:—Spiritual Manifestations in Newcastle; Organisa¬
tion; Spiritualism and Christianity: Theological Objections to
Spiritualism; The Queen’s Speech; The Real and the ideal; The
Sleeping Girl of Turville   ... 92
The Happiness of True Religion   ... 95
Spirit Hands       96
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism and Anthropology, 90; Spiritualism and
Capitalists, 90; Spiritualism in Dalston, 91; The National Associa¬
tion of Spiiitualists, 91; Mrs. Tappan’s Lectures, 95.; Passed to
Spirit Life, 96; Spiritualism in East London     96
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 187 0.)
President-,
Henry D, Jencken, Esq,, M.R.I. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council:
Mr. A. Ferguson Black,
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Corner.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Eon. Sec. and Treasurer—l/Lr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . tThe collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to a better understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations [vide Rule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the first Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Rooms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope suould be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Pros oec'us, Rules, Circle Regulations, and directions “howto form Spirit
Circles,” with any further information, to be obtained on application at the
Rooms as above.
PERSONS in Oxford interested in Spiritualism are
invited to call upon Mr.' Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigation of phenomena and the discus¬
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects.
Eparkes, spiritualist photographer.
• 'Sittings a la seance'hy appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used'in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sittinsr. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E. , - '
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence.. To be h ad of W. H... Terry, 96, Russell- street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers. '
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association or Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road. Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application,
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month, until further notice.
THE NEXT SOIREE WILL BE HELD ON WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3RD.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 6.30 to 10 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets, Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub =
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Nqtting-hill, Mr. J- W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAX
EVENINGS.
Commencement of the Second Course
UPON THE “ SOUL AND SPIRIT OF MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.” /
AT THE .CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening.
Doors open at 6.30, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors.
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr. Webster
Glynes, 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. 6r 12s.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and en Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing fall particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent cost free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15tli of every month, at 36, Rue .de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Pricb 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
R
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiqueif,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. : Price,
1 franc. Published by the .Societe Anonyme, !, Rue de Lille, Paris, Post
Office orders payable to M. Lbymarie. "
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 19, 1875.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beakers foe 1874.
President.—James 'Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bnssell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest'
E. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G-
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation,
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUEES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Jot (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campdeu-hill, or from
Bailliere & CO., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbiudiog, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
moiiern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. T iree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRV, 96, RUSSELL-STREET, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. fid, Single copies may be ordered.. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
N e wcastle-on-T y ne.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE THIRD ANNUAL EVENING CONCERT
OF THIS SOCIETY WILL TAKE PLACE IN
QUEBEC HALL, LOWER SEYMOUR-STREET, PORTMAN-SQUARE,
ON
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22ND, 1875.
Artists.
Miss Malvina Claxton. The Misses Maltby. Miss Annes.
Miss Lizzie Clarke. Miss D’Arcy.
Mr. Robert Castelden. Mr. F. Tindall. Mr. J. Claxton.
Messrs. W. and H. Griffiths. Mr. Arthur Russell, &c.
See Programme.
Doors open at 7. 30. To commence at 8 o’clock. Reserved Stalls 2s.;
HallTs.; Balcony 6d.
Admission by Ticket, to he obtained at the Hall, or of the following
gentlemen:—Mr. Cowper, 388, Edgware-road; Mr. Friehold, 9, North-
street Manchester-square; Mr. Griffiths, 36, Abbey-garden^, St. John’s-
wood; Mr. Whittingham, 27, Warren-street, Fitzroy-square ; Mr. Maltby,
8, Hanover-place, Regent’s-park; Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove; Mr.
Cain, 12, Oak-villa, Kentish-town; Mr. Hooker, 33, Henry-street, St.
J ohn’s Wood; Mr. Draisey, 64, St. Ann’s-road, Notting-hill. and of Mr.
Bums, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row.
Charles.I.|Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
aOSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.—IN¬
STRUCTIVE LECTURES to HUMANITY, are delivered every
Sunday evening, by Trance, Inspirational and other Mediums. Doors open
at 6.30, service at 7 o’clock. Admission Free.
INSTRUCTIVE LECTURES TO HUMANITY are
Delivered every Sunday Evening at Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road,
E O.—Dr. G. SEXTON, L.L.D., F.Z.S.. &c., Editor of The Spiritual Magazine
and of The Christian Spiritualist, will deliver a discourse on the 14th of
February, and Mr. R. Cogman (of the Spiritual Institution, Mile-end), on
the 21st of February, 1875. Various Trance, Inspirational, and other
Mediums will occupy the platform every Sunday evening. Service at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free;
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
, London.—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Mesmerism, electro-biology, fascination.
How to produce sleep upon any person with certainty. Why do
Mesmerists fail ? &c. M. Bigg, Teacher of Mesmerism, &c., by post or ap¬
pointment. How to produce all those curious stage phenomena, he can
teach efficiently by post.
M. Rigtr, practical mesmerist, 17, Pakenham-street, London, W.O.
Advice in all cases of disease. Pamphlet, &c., gratis, by post, Id.
stamp.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
The spiritual magazine. edited by george
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row, E.O.
IMPORTANT TO INVALIDS!!! -
’MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS BY LOCK OF HAIR!!!.
MR. AND MRS. E. H. GREEN, TRANCE SPEAKERS
AND CLAIRVOYANT PHYSICIANS.
For Medical Diagnosis send lock of Hair, well enclosed in oiled paper,
stating sex and age of patient. Prescriptions carefully compounded, under
spirit-control of “Professor Hare’’ and the Indian Chief “Blackhawk.”
Fee to accompany the Hair, 10s. 6d., by post office order on Brotherton
—Address, Marsh House, Brotherton. Ferry Bridge, Yorkshire.
eJMj
(T?
ifpiiaiif.
eJWs gjwa
jt n\ [frxijrm $1} nt& uf
VOJLUJVIE ^IX. JHUJV1BER EIQHT.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19th? 1878.
€{j* Sjlntelhl Itttosppr*
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR AHYERTISEMEHTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publishery Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 1S4, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. E. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street. j
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street,
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. PauTs-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most pf the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
C1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—1, Fitzroy-square, W.
WOMEN’S OCCUPATIONS,
In these days, when the independence of women is
not a mere sentiment, but is becoming a hard fact,
based on stern necessity, it is useful to learn what new
paths of labour are being opened to them, and to observe
with what success each new experiment is attended.
One of the most recent is that of “ house decoratresses,”
and from the great scope afforded for the display of
taste, and the want of it in ordinary interiors, the
public may look forward to a happy era of comfortable,
inexpensive, and tasteful domestic arrangements, such
as the heart and hand of unaided man could not be
expected to devise or execute. Two of the Misses
Garrett (sisters of the physician, Mrs. Garrett-Anderson,
and of the political economist, Mrs. Fawcett) were the
first to enter on this line of business; their example
has since been followed by the Misses Townshend,
whose offices are at No. 12, Bulstrode-street, Manchester-
square, London, and who are earning a good livelihood
at this kind of work. The decoratresses may likewise be
consulted on matters of upholstery and general fur¬
nishing, and keep samples of materials for drapery and
other coverings. Such things have hitherto been left
by supine or ignorant mistresses of households to “first-
rate upholsterers,” whose sole'ideas are fashion and
expense; and husbands are presented with ruinous
bills for furniture, remarkable alike for discomfort and
ugliness, and which has not even the redeeming quality,
fortunately, of durability. This profession may be
strongly recommended to young women who may excel
in taste, but who have not the opportunity to devote
themselves to the cultivation of art, which is “ long,”
while time is “ fleeting.”
A profession suitable for ladies is that’of nursing; in
particular monthly nursing. At a time when love and
sympathy are as much needed as care and skill, it
must be trying to an invalid who is not too ill
to enjoy a little society, to be thrown entirely upon that
of a woman inferior in intellect, manners, and often of
feeling. Facilities for training in the duties of nursing
and in medical knowledge are now offered by the South
London School of Pharmacy, 325, Kennington-road, S.E.,
by the Deaconesses’ Institutional Tottenham-green, and
by other training institutes.
Shorthand and law-copying are also remunerative
and suitable employments for women. At the Law¬
copying Office, 12, Portugal-street, Lincoln’s-inn, num¬
bers of girls and women earn from £1 10s. to £2 per
week. Strict attendance and neat work are, of course,
a sine qua non to regular employment and promotion.
Shorthand writing being at present an uncommon
acquirement even among men, offers a fair field to
women, who may3 if they seize the opportunity, mono¬
polise the ground, and insist upon good pay. The Vic¬
toria Discussion Society, are taking up the subject, and
a paper was read thereon at their meeting on Tuesday,
Feb. 2nd, by Mrs. Rundell, whose own system of phono¬
graphy is a modification of former methods.
SB
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 19, 1875.
Information on the subject of -women’s occupations
may be gained from JVomen and Work, edited by Miss
Faithfull, issued weekly at the Victoria Bureau, 85,
Praed-street, W., several columns of which form a
guide to employments for women.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF THE EDDY BROTHERS.
For a long time past we have been critically watch¬
ing the various reports in American Spiritual and other
periodicals which have given details of the remarkable
manifestations which take place in the presence of the
Eddy Brothers, at Chittenden, Vermont, U.S., our
desire being to discover what is exaggeration and what is
fact;
Dr. Ditson, of the Banner of Light, went to see the
manifestations, and appears to have been considerably
disappointed, the amount of light permitted at the
seances being so small; and this important point is
kept in the back-ground by most of those who narrate
the wonders they have seen there. The observers sit in
one or more rows, at some distance from the cabinet,
the door of which opens upon a platform, and, as a
general rule, the sitters are dependent upon two of the
sitters for all information about the features of the
spirits, two genial and friendly Spiritualists, Mr. Prit¬
chard and Mrs. Cleveland, being specially favoured in
this respect. It is the old story of affectionate and
spiritually-minded people getting better manifestations
than others, because the mediums and the spirits feel
more at home in their presence. Occasionally, but
rarely, other spectators have had light enough, or have
been invited near enough to the cabinet to see the
features of the spirits, the most noteworthy case being
that of Colonel Olcott, the special correspondent of the
New York Daily Graphic and the New York Sun; he
testifies that beyond all doubt a little baby, carried by
one of the spirits, was,, for the time being, a living
human child, certainly not a doll or wax figure.
As the Eddy’s are on their own premises, and have
their own cabinet, just as was the case with the
Holmes’s, who recently perpetrated so daring an
imposture, Col. Olcott wished the test conditions to be
increased to a reasonable extent, consequently he asked
William Eddy to give him a seance in another part of
the house, and he selected as a cabinet a room with
whitewashed walls, and no entrance but the door
through which the materialised spirits came out; the
manifestations went on as usual. Disbelievers who
have attended one seance only of the Eddy’s, and who
were disappointed by the bad light, and who at the out¬
set were not favourably disposed, in consequence of their
preconceived opinions, have sometimes left abruptly
after the first seance, convinced that the whole was an
imposture, but all who gave time and attention to the
subject became satisfied that the manifestations were
genuine. The most puzzling part of the matter, from a
thoroughly sceptical point of view, has been the
enormous number of dresses shown from time to time
at the seances. The largest theatre in New York could
not furnish dresses enough to clothe all the materialised
spirits who have appeared through the mediumship of
William Eddy. Turk and African, Arab and Hindoo,
courtier and peasant, and persons belonging to all
grades composing the civilised countries of Europe,
have appeared in their proper costumes, and are said to
have spoken in their native languages, although the
evidence on this latter point is meagre. Mrs. Cleve¬
land and Mr. Pritchard, who see these spirits face
to face, state unhesitatingly that they have not the
features of William Eddy, and that they have clearly
seen their own departed relatives come out of that
cabinet. If this testimony could be set aside, and
if these two witnesses should be included among those
enthusiastic people who would recognise a handkerchief
as their uncle or their grandmother if it were held
in front of a cabinet, the question would remain
whether those spirits who can carry objects from place
to place bring the dresses and take them away again,
and use the organism or double of the medium on which
to display them to the spectators.
Has any information been collected by those most
familiar with the seances, about what is taking place
inside the cabinet during the occurrence of these mani¬
festations? Has any witness ever been inside the
cabinet with the medium during the manifestations,
or have electrical currents been used as in England to
ascertain the condition of the medium in the cabinet
while the materialised forms are outside ? Something
should be done to throw more light on the nature
of the manifestations.
Sftebteto.
Women’s Labour.—The Englishwoman's Review,* a
monthly journal devoted to social and industrial ques¬
tions, in their bearing upon the interests of women,
opens its January number with an article on “ The
Position of Women Engaged in Handicrafts and other
Industrial Pursuits.” The writer says: “In some of
the best paid employments, in which both men and
women are engaged, women may manage to obtain
nearly a third of the wages of men, but in other trades
they earn considerably less than this. ... It is said
that men are paid higher wages than women because
they have families to support, but no one ever proposes
to pay single men lower wages than married men. . .
The low rate of women’s wages has long been a subject
of remark. Yarious causes have been assigned for it,
those most frequently urged being the absence of skilled
work among women, their inability to do as much work
in a day as men can perform, and the superabundant
supply of labour in employments open to them.” The
last of these reasons we believe to be at the root of the
matter, but Miss Emma A. Paterson proceeds to pro¬
duce evidence intended to show the invalidity of all of
them, except inasmuch as they apply equally to men
and women, and intended to prove that the real cause
of the evil is that “ women have made no permanent
united efforts to protect themselves by union. Attempts
at trade combinations have already been made with
some success in America. In New York, in 1871, the
reduction of the wages of women employed in umbrella
and parasol making led to the formation of a woman’s
union in that trade; nine hundred women joined,
under a president of their own sex, a former worker in
the trade, and the reduction was successfully resisted.”
A* simultaneous movement in this direction has been
made during the last few months in London, Bristol,
and other parts of England. In July last a conference
held in London on the “Need of Union among Work¬
ing Women” led to the formation of a “ Women’s Pro¬
tective and Provident Committeeamongst the mem-
* Trubner and Co., office of the Englishwoman's Review, 22, Berners-street,
Oxford-street, W.
I
Feb. 19, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
87
bers of which are ladies and gentlemen well known for
their disinterested efforts to improve the condition of
the working classes.
Other events interesting to women who work are
noticed in the Review, and in particular the establish¬
ment of the London School of Medicine for Women,
30, Henrietta-street, Brunswick-square, W.C., where
ladies who have passed the examination in arts at
Apothecaries’ Hall can enter as medical students, or
attend separate classes for the study of anatomy,
physiology, and chemistry. These latter do not receive
certificates of attendance. A list of institutions for the
benefit of women is given, and among these are the
Society for Promoting the Employment of Women, 22,
Berners-street, Oxford-street; the Law Copying Office,
12, Portugal-street, Lincoln’s-inn, where female clerks
are exclusively employed; the Women’s Club, 9, Berners-
street, W.; College for Men and Women, 29, Queen’s-
square, Bloomsbury, W. C.; and others of like nature.
Those interested in women’s occupations should consult
the Review, as well as Miss Faithfull’s most useful
Women and Work, published weekly, at the Yictoria
Bureau, 85, Praed-street, Paddington, price Id.
The Pet of the Household and How to Save it. Com¬
prised in Twelve Lectures on Physiology. By Mrs.
Lydia F. Fowler, M.D., of New York. London:
Wm. Tweedie.
This useful book is full of sound advice relating to
the training and rearing, clothing and physiology of
children. Such books are more plentiful in America
than in this country, and lectures on such subjects are
more numerous there than they are here, yet both
ought to be warmly welcomed and encouraged by those
who believe that a pure mind can best exist in a pure
body, and that it is easier to educate a mind encased in
a healthy body than one imprisoned in a body enfeebled
by disease. The book treats of the wants of childhood,
tells how to secure good lungs and good bones,’ a
healthy spine and vigorous muscles ; it gives informa¬
tion about teething and learning to walk, and in deal¬
ing with the diseases of children explains how to pre¬
vent or to cure croup, diphtheria, whooping-cough, and
measles. Mrs. Fowler tells how much depends upon
good nurses, for by bad nursing ailments may be caused
which will last throughout the whole life.
Mrs. Fowler says that the natural deductions from
the whole body of facts which she places before her
readers are—“ That parents are responsible in a great
degree for the physical, mental, and moral condition of
their children; secondly, that the laws of develop¬
ment and hereditary descent are fixed, and that per¬
fection in children is the result, in proportion as
parents understand and comply with the laws of de¬
velopment ; thirdly, that physical and mental stamina
depend upon the right observance of the laws of
dietetics, respiration, nutrition, and exercise; fourthly,
that as all the world declares that the mother is the
prime mover in exerting an influence over the earlier
years of children, therefore the education of woman
should be more thorough and scientific, and should
embrace at least a greater knowledge of the laws of
life. "Whoever will advance the education of woman,
then, is really a benefit to the race.’’
A hew spiritual periodical has been ' issued at Cape
Town, South Africa; it is a wretched thing.
HOUSE SPIRITS, PAST AND PRESENT.
Readers of The Spiritualist will be familiar with
the name and performances of “ Peter,” who speaks
through the mediumship of Miss Showers, and several
may have heard and wondered at the loud ringing voice
of that quaintest and most vociferous of spirits. The
circumstance of his first appearance will be found de¬
tailed in Nos. 73 and 74 of The Spiritualist. Many
may know, too, that he continues in full force, ajid is
daily at hand with his jokes, strange sayings, exhorta¬
tions, and harangues, and never backward in displaying
his vocal powers in songs, both secular and spiritual.
It may not be uninteresting to bring forward an in¬
stance or two of house-spirits remarkably similar, whose
pranks and characteristics were recorded long before
the Spiritualism of to-day came into notice.
“ Teigue of the Lee” was a house-spirit well known
in the south of Ireland in the first quarter of the pre¬
sent century, and haunted the old manor house of
Carrigrohane, in County Cork. His voice was heard all
over the house, both inside and without, and oftener by
day than night, teasing and frightening servants, jeer¬
ing guests, and addressing them at times in as uncom¬
plimentary a style as Peter often does. His voice is
described as exceedingly hollow and hoarse, resembling
that of a man speaking with his head in an empty
cask. He was always heard when guests came to dine
or stay, and would generally accost them very courte¬
ously, and often surprise them with the knowledge he
showed of their domestic affairs. Sometimes he would
amuse himself with chaffing and flouting any very
“ stuck up ” or irascible visitor, and allowing him to
run out and chase the mocking voice all round the
house, the visitor being always persuaded he would
catch “ the impudent rascal that was trying to impose
on the company ” round the next corner. Teigue, for
so he named himself, would generally ask for a glass of
whisky and a plate of food, which on being put outside
the window, were cleared in a moment, when by some
device he had turned away for an instant any eyes that
might be watching, in this differing from Peter, who
has not as yet, the writer believes, partaken of earth
food; but resembling him in love of music, always
asking the musician to play or sing. A young lady
having once, at his request, favoured him with a tune
on the piano, he in return said he would sing her a
song, and accordingly sang “ with a most tremendous
voice, “ My name is Teigue, and I lives in state,” a then
popular composition. Those who have heard Peter
sing would describe his voice in much the same way.
Many devices were used to detect this strange being,
but he was never seen, nor any discovery made of his
character.
In the year 1584 a wonderful house-spirit haunted
the old castle of Hudemuhler, in the country of Lune-
berg. A history of him was written by a pious minister
named Feldmann, in a volume of 379 pages. First he
ratified his presence by knocking and making various
noises, but soon began to converse with the servants in
the daytime, just as in the case of Peter. He said his
name was Hinzelmann, and would carry on conversa¬
tions either with strangers or with the family; and
when all fear of him was gone became quite friendly
and intimate, sang, laughed, and went on with every
kind of sport—again just like Peter. He delighted in
setting servants and workmen by the ears whilst they
sat drinking, giving one a box on the ear from behind,
and another a pinch on the leg, so that each would
88
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Feb. 19, 1875.
accuse his neighbour, and fall to scuffling, which de¬
lighted Hinzelmann, who, however, always took care no
ill should result. Like Feigue he would eat and drink,
and had a dish full of sweet milk and crumbs 'and a
glass of wine set for him daily. When the minister
who writes his history first heard him, he was singing
and shouting so in the castle hall that the minister
thought a whole company was making merry there.
He resented any insults, and contrived that they who
offered them should suffer, and when an exorcist tried
to banish him, snatched the book out of his hand, and
pinched and beat him till he ran away, frightened out
of his wits. Hinzelmann complained greatly of this
treatment, and said, “ I am a Christian, like any other
man, and I hope to be saved.” He vehemently dis¬
owned any connection with evil spirits and “ devil’s
spectres j” in proof of this he once repeated the Lord’s
Prayer, but murmured the last petition, "Deliver us
from the Evil one,” quite low. Mr. Eeldmann relates
that he heard Hinzelmann sing the beautiful hymn,
“ Nun bitten wir den Zeiligen Geist ” in a very high
voice, resembling in this the other two spirits ; he also
sang several other spiritual songs. Hinzelmann was
particularly attached to two young ladies at Hude-
miihler, named Anne and Catherine, and would converse
with them continually, and bring all his complaints to
them; he was so jealous of them that he frightened
away all wooers, and a usual way with him was to
make a writing appear before their eyes on the oppo¬
site wall in fiery letters, " Take maid Anne and leave
me maid Catherinebut if any one came to court
Lady Anne the fiery writing changed all at once, and
became, " Take maid Catherine and leave me maid
Anne.” This is curious, because Peter employed the
same device in making known his wishes, causing a
threatening command to appear in writing on the wall
Vide Spiritualist, Ho. 73).
Hinzelmann departed of his own accord after he had
stayed four years. • Unless the present writer mistakes,
Peter has announced his stay will be limited. Before
going he gave the master of the house three things—a
little silken cross, a straw hat very ingeniously made
by himself of variegated straw, and a leather glove set
with pearls, informing him that so long as those things
were kept unseparated the family would flourish. Those
three objects were seen by the minister Feldmann, and
the straw hat afterwards was given to the emperor
Ferdinand II., who regarded it as something wonderful.
Hinzelmann never, allowed himself to be seen by adults;
many schemes were used to catch him, but only
glimpses were obtained, given apparently in mockery, of
a black cat, or a snake, but he would often play with
innocent little children, who described him as a beauti¬
ful little boy, with long yellow curls, and dressgd in a
red silk coat; in this respect differing from Peter, who
has rarely shown himself to only two or three persons,
and then in very unspiritual and unromantic attire.
Other differences between him and the other two
spirits are that the latter spoke freely in the daytime
to all persons indifferently, and always direct; but he,
though voluble enough by day to his own household,
speaks to strangers only in the dark, and through his
medium. X.
Mr. W.D. Hull, editor of IlulVs Crucible, 24, Uewcomb-
street, Boston, U.S., writes:—“Although our paper is con¬
sidered the most radical of any paper in America, it affords us
a pleasure to say that no organ in the world appeals so to the
Bible in support of its theory.”
THE ELECTRICITY OF THE HUMAN BODY.
Ox Thursday last week Professor Tyndall delivered a
lecture on " Electricity,” at the Royal Institution, in
the presence of a large body of listeners, and in the
course of his remarks said :—
In Silliman's Journal for 1837 there is a description of a
lady whose body was frequently charged with electricity, so
that when she touched her friends she greeted them with an
electrical spark. It was thought that this had something to
do with her health, which in consequence was (very properly)
minutely described; but since then all that we have learned
goes to prove that this electricity which some people evolve, and
which can be obtained in dry atmospheres by rubbing the
backs of cats, and by combing dry hair with an india-rubber
comb, is all produced by the same cause. There is no doubt
on the part of scientific men that electrical effects in the
human body, such as I have described, are due to the friction
of the clothes against a dry skin.
Professor Tyndall here made an insulating stool by
placing a square board on the top of four dry hot glass
tumblers. He then put on a macintosh coat, and in¬
structed his assistant, Mr. Cottrell, to brush this india-
rubber coat with a fox’s tail tied at the end of a cane.
Four or five strokes with the fox’s brush produced
enough electricity to cause some of Professor Tyndall’s
hair to stand on end, and a few more strokes generated
so much that when he brought his knuckle near the
knuckle of Mr. Cottrell a spark passed between the
two, with a snap which was heard all over the theatre.
We have received the following letter from Dr.
Hitchman, of Liverpool:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—In your journal of the 5th inst., you state (p. 68) that
Mr. Yarley and others show, with exquisitely delicate
apparatus,” that electricity is not given out from the hands
and different parts of the human body! I beg to dissent
from that scientific opinion, in the strongest manner possible,
more especially as I am one of those persons who not only
have made, but shall continue to make contrary state¬
ments. Provost, Dumas, Faraday, Matteuici, Du Bois Ray¬
mond, Davy, Holland, Edwards, and a host of other {British
and foreign philosophers, have placed upon record, in various
academies of learning, the most unquestionable examples of
“ exquisitely delicate instruments,” in form of human dynamic
bodies, which totally disprove the accuracy of your recent
ex parte statement. It would indeed be a facile process to fill
a column of The Spiritualist with mere references alone to
detailed cases in “ Transactions,” &c., in which such unequi¬
vocal development of human electricity has taken place
in presence of competent witnesses, as to show itself
invincibly in sparks from every part of the surface of
the body. My late friend, Professor Sheridan Muspratt,
once challenged certain conclusions of mine, in a public
debate with me in Liverpool, of long duration, more espe¬
cially in respect to the alleged efficacy of magnetised
water, and homoeopathic medicines, mainly on the ground
that no demonstrable element of cure was discoverable in them
by exquisitely delicate apparatus in the Royal College of
Chemistry, “ or elsewhere.” This latter place, however, proved
fatal to his gratuitous assertion, as not impossibly may happen
likewise, mutatis mutandis, with regard to yourself and Mr.
Yarley on the question of electricity. Dr. Muspratt accepted
my invitation to “walk the hospital” for a time, under
the strictest rules of mental and physical science, and the
result was, as he himself often declared, “ that unseen agencies
have remedial power over intractable disease,” &c. Why
should the phenomena of animal magnetism or human elec¬
tricity be more incredible than the action of infinitesimal
doses ? In the pursuit of truth, whether in spirit or matter,
the scientist can do nothing but follow in her train and pay
due homage, not hoping for what should be in the nature of things
eternal, but devoutly satisfied with what 4s. If we act otherwise
in Spiritualism or materialism the beautiful goddess will frown
rather than smile upon us, and we shall be very deservedly
cast aside as disarmed, worthless, treacherous, and con¬
temptible. Relative weights of atoms in our bodies and their
chemical equivalents, though expressed by the same numbers,
do not explain the continuity of life, or the whole philosophy of
Feb. 19, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
89
celestial and atomic dynamics exhaustively. I hold the same
opinion with reference to the exquisite galvanometer, and the
facts and phenomena of organic electricity. Let justice prevail
everywhere.—I am, &o., William Hitchman, M.D.
February 10th, 1875.
This letter does not give a single experiment stating
when and where electricity has been obtained from the
bands or head of the human body. The last half of
the letter is wide of the subject altogether, and so far
as its meaning can be made out, he mesmerised patients,
and demonstrated “ that unseen agents have remedial
power,” which no one denies, but what has this to do
with electricity ?
The experiments of Du Bois Raymond and others
show that there is plenty of electricity at work in
closed circuits in the human body, but we do not know
of a single experiment made by any competent man
tending to prove that electricity is given out by the
hands or head, when such electricity has not been pro¬
duced by friction. Half-informed people have some¬
times taken the terminals of an ordinary galvanometer
in their wet hands, and obtained a deflection, making
them quite positive that their bodies gave out electricity.
But the effect has been due to chemical action set up
when their wet hands held a piece of brass connected
with the galvanometer. Deflections due to polarisation
have likewise been obtained. The competent man of
science of course knows how to escape these quick¬
sands, and Mr. Yarley, in inquiring into this matter,
employed an apparatus infinitely more sensitive than
any in common use, namely, one of the reflecting
galvarfometers used in working the Atlantic Cable.
These instruments are so exquisitely sensitive that the
weak current produced by a piece of zinc wire placed in
a percussion cap filled with a drop of acidulated water
has been sent through the whole 3,000 miles of the
Atlantic Cable, and made to produce a deflection of the
sensitive galvanometer at the other end. These
galvanometers are mounted upon pillars of masonry
which come up through the floors of the Atlantic
Telegraph huts, and the wood of the floors does not
touch the masonry, by which means vibrations produced
by persons walking about a room are not communicated
to the instrument. When a very sensitive galvanometer
is used in an ordinary dwelling-house, cabs passing in
the street outside will disturb its indications. With
apparatus like this, Mr. Yarley obtained feeble deflec¬
tions, which he ascertained to be due to the chemical
substances contained in the perspiration of his skin. If
he washed one hand in weak alkali, and the other in
weak acid, then wiped his hands dry, he obtained .a
feeble current in one direction, and when he reversed
the process by making his right hand acid instead of
alkaline, and his left hand alkaline instead of acid, then
dried his hands, he obtained the current in the opposite
direction.
If Dr. Hitchman can show or quote any experiment
showing that electricity not due to friction, has in any
case emanated from the human fingers, we shall be
glad to print it, for this is a matter to be decided by
experiment and not by talk, and we must request him
to confine himself to the subject, which he does not do
in the last half of the above letter. At all events, the
powerful forces which move tablesfand produce raps in
the presence of media are not magnetism and are not
electricity, and have not yet been proved to be connected
therewith, but appear from their effects to be of another
nature.
A TRANCE ADDRESS ON PARENTAGE.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, “ under the influence of her
spirit guides,” delivered a lecture on “ Parentage and its Con¬
sequences,” at the Town-hall, Brighton, on Friday evening,
February 5th. Mr. J. Bray, the secretary of the Brighton
Spiritual Union, presided, and among the audience, which
was small, were Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, Mrs. Martheze, Miss
Martheze, the Hon. Mrs. Hugh Rowley, Colonel Dixon,
Captain and Mrs. Weatherley, Mrs. Catherine Berry (a paint¬
ing “ medium”'), Mr. and Mrs. Colen, Mr. W. Gill, Mr. C.
Jackson, and Miss Poole. Mr. W. Devin presided with
customary ability at the harmonium, playing an overture
before the proceedings commenced, and a march after they
were concluded.
Immediately after the Chairman had uttered one or two
preliminary sentences, Mrs. Tappan rose, and at once explained
in fluent speech and clear language, which were maintained
throughout the address, that a lecture upon the advertised
subject had been requested in consequence of some ideas
which had been prevalent in the public mind recently,
touching an unfortunate class of children, and particularly
because it had been confessed that the condition of these
hapless ones and its causes belong to one of the inscrutable
mysteries of Divine Providence.
Whenever any human misery was pronounced incurable, it
must indeed, she said, sound strange to the ears of an'
almighty and beneficent Father, who had provided means for
the cure of every human ill. In the opinion of the speaker,
those means were conveyed in the one word knowledge, and
whenever the knowledge of any evil should have been properly
considered and conveyed to the human race, the suffering and
misery must inevitably depart. It was, therefore, argued that
there was not one of all the unfortunate waifs cast on society
—the maimed, blind, deformed, or idiotic from birth—that
was not so because of the lack of proper knowledge and the
appliances thereof; and affirmed that nearly all those diseases
which afflicted humanity might be avoided if as much atten¬
tion were given to the cultivation and perfection of humanity
as was usually given by the scientific world to the understanding
of' any subject. In order that this attention might be given,
no one, it was pointed out, should enter upon the sacred office
called parent, in the highest and divinest sense, if there were
a physical or mental imperfection which was liable to taint
humanity with crime or disease; and in further support of
this injunction, the responsibility of human beings in this
matter was set forth. Attention was directed to the facts pre¬
sented by statistics that nine hundred criminals, imbeciles,
and outcasts had descended from a single |unfortunate pauper
child cast adrift but a century ago, and that the degraded
portions of our cities and tqwns were the results of two or
three such incidental and seemingly accidental waifs, who
perpetuated their kind, and engrafted upon human society
that which was worse than any mere physical disease—moral
and physical infirmity.
As the primal condition of human life was perfection—that
whatever Deity had placed upon the earth should represent its
highest possible type of expression—it was maintained that a
full knowledge of the responsibility defined should be possessed
by every individual who should assume the sacred office and
trust of giving to earth an expression of the soul of man in
human form; and that, whenever a crime, infirmity or de¬
formity was to be perpetuated by the neglect of this knowledge,
it was the duty of society to interfere, for the purpose of sav¬
ing mankind the unnecessary sympathy and absolutely wasted
philanthropy which now took place in the world. It should
not be possible in this age of civilisation and culture that such
a spectacle as they would witness in any hospital or asylum
for orphans, and the diseased and infirm, should exist. There
could by no possibility be anything in this matter that was
inscrutable, it belonged to that special class of human investi¬
gation which patience and careful study and an earnest desire
to arrive at the wish and the will of the infinite Purpose could
and did make manifest to humanity. Physiologically and
scientifically speaking, it was not only absolutely true, but it
was a fact that if that which was sanctified and held sacred as
marriage, should be made still more sacred from the con¬
sciousness that no persons should ever set themselves apart
from their kind as married, except they wished to present to
the eye of the heavenly Father, who had consecrated their
union, the highest types of humanity; and if, added to this,
there should also be the knowledge that should render that wish
possible of fulfilment, then they would have arrived at the
root of the difficulty. But so long as young and inexperienced
persons rushed into that sacred relation without a knowledge
90
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 19, 1875.
of the responsibility they incurred, so long as Society santioned
and would sanction those convenient unions that were for the
perpetuation of estates and titles instead of the highest types
of humanity, so long as physicians and sometimes spiritual
teachers insisted that these unions should take place, regard¬
less of the physical or moral consequences, they must not fail
to expect those imperfections that were now visible in society.
If, however, one waif left upon society uncared for caused
the Government to expend millions of money annually, as the
result of that one misfortune, then it behoved all right-minded
persons to set to work to form schools of instruction for the
young, providing for those thus left without early culture and
instruction, not only education, but every means of support
and proper protection from crime, penury, and want. And it be¬
longed to all the great sisterhood of women in all places of
worship to see that there were no unprotected and uncared-for
girls, left to the temptations of external life; and it belonged
to all men, brothers in Christian society, to consider every
young woman as they expected other men to consider their
wives, daughters, or sisters—objects of protection. And this
state of society would bring about that radical change which
now seemed so far away, and which the good and wise vainly
attempted to solve by curing the surface and not probing to
the centre the evils that afflicted humanity.
At the close of the lecture, several questions were asked by
two gentleman, but they elicited nothing in addition to what
had been stated, except the confession that, like the question
of intemperance, or other social questions that involved indivi¬
dual responsibility in complication with legislation, the subject
considered could not be one of human legislation at the pre¬
sent day, as it had been in the days of the Spartans, but it
could be made the subject of training, so^that there could be
such a moral and social opinion created that it would be im¬
possible in society to do that which would perpetuate a wrong
without the condemnation of mankind; that it was believed to
be possible for human science to be so perfected that the
hereditary tendency to insanity or consumption could be
readily detected, not only when active, but also when inactive;
and that the hereditary transmission of criminal tendencies
could be remedied in the same manner as that of physical
disease. An impromptu poem was also delivered on “Death,”
a subject chosen by the audience out of the following other
four submitted by individual members:—“Flowers,” “ Love,”
“ Moses in the Bulrushes,” and “ War.”—Sussex Daily News
Spieitttaxism and Anthropology.—Mr. A. L. Lewis,
of 151, Church-road, Essex-road, N., secretary to the new
Anthropological Society, which branched off a year or two
ago from the Anthropological Institute, writes :—“ I should
be glad if you would announce by authority in your paper that
we are willing and even anxious to receive papers on psycho¬
logical subjectSi”
Spiritualism and Capitalists.—Among the workers
who are helping to forward the great movement of modern
Spiritualism, capitalists can do much, and some of them who
are well known to the readers of these pages have done their
duty in a liberal and kindly manner for many years. The
disorganised state of the movement until about a year ago was
an impediment to the efficient and economical expenditure of
capital for public (purposes. But now that there is a good
working organisation in the hands of educated and reliable
people, who are resolved not to let the Association get into
debt, a means has been provided whereby all funds can be
usefully expended under the public eye, and by the public
vote. In the hope that there may be some ardent capitalist
somewhere in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ire¬
land, who has been anxiously watching for an opportunity to
aid the movement to such an extent as to amount to self-
sacrifice, which after all is the only measure of true liberality,
we desire to point out that an acceptable boon at the present
time would be the presentation to thei movement of a plot of
freehold land alongside one of the main thoroughfares in
London, for the erection of a public building. The practical
effect of this would be that the building would be reared at
once, since, with no rent to pay for the land, the building of a
hall would be certainly remunerative in itself. There is
already a good working organisation to use the premises when
completed, and, as its funds would not be drawn upon to
meet the great expense of rent, it could use its income for
public purposes. The land being freehold and the property of
the movement, the “ powers that be ” would not be able to turn
out the occupiers'; at present a potent engine in the hands of
influential opponents, is that of giving notice to quit either
to objectionable individuals or to objectionable organisations.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
SEANCE AT MISS DOUGLAS’S—THE MEDIUMSHIP OE MR.
WILLIAMS—THE SITTERS TIED BY SPIRITS.
Last Tuesday morning a private seance was held at 81, South
Audley-street, the residence of Miss Douglas, a lady whom the
late Dr. Robert Chambers, of Chambers's Journal, states
that he was accustomed to consult upon his experiences re¬
lating to Spiritualism, at a time when the unpopularity of ihe
subject deterred him from introducing it generally to his less
thoughtful friends.
At the seance Mr. C. E. Williams was the medium, and“his
hands were held during the dark seance by two of the guests
on either side of him. Materialised spirit hands took a long
piece of tape and tied it round one or other of the hands of
all the sitters at the table, one young lady excepted, the tape
not being long enough to include her. Next, a heavy chair
was heard moving about the room; it crept noiselessly up
the back of a noble lord who was holding the hands of Mr.
Williams, then was placed lightly on the centre of the table,
without breaking the chandelier glasses above, or injuring any
of the sitters. Afterwards there was a cabinet seance, and
John King was faintly seen once or twice; Mr. Williams had
been tied in his chair by Mr. Harrison before this took place;
and one end of the chief piece of tape holding him was fas¬
tened to the upper bar of the grate in the room used as a
cabinet. The two terminal knots of this piece of tape were
sealed with a signet ring. The knots and seals were intact at
the close of the seance.
SEANCE AT MR. GEORGE NEVILLE’S—MRS. PAY’S MEDIUM-
SHIP — REMARKABLE MANIFESTATION S — LITERARY
OBSERVERS.
Last Sunday night a seance was held at the residence of
Mr. George Neville, 9, Regent’s-park-terrace, Gloucester-gate,
London. Among the guests present were the editor and sub¬
editor of one of the most powerful daily newspapers published
in London, as well as several other ladies and gentlemen of
literary note. The medium was Mrs. Fay, who had never
entered the house before, and who came to it alone.
The greatest disbelievers present fixed two screws, with iron
loops at their heads, into the wood-work alongside one of the
windows of the first floor of the house, high up over the street.
They bound her hands together with strips of calico in the
way so often described, then tied them behind her back; after
which she took her seat upon a camp stool, when they tied her
hands to the iron ring. Another piece of calico was tied
round her neck, and fixed to the upper iron ring. Her feet
were tied together with a rope by one of the ladies, and the
long end of the rope was brought out into the room. A large
shawl was nailed by one corner to another portion of the
wood-work of the window, so that when it was held up at the
opposite corner against the side wall of the room, Mrs. Fay
was hidden from sight in the angle formed by the corner of
the room. For more minute particulars as to the way in
which the medium was secured, see The Spiritualist of Feb. 5.
Every now and then the curtain was raised for the space of
about half a minute, during which time several manifestations
took place as so often described. Musical instruments were
played; a nail was hammered with considerable force into a
piece of wood ; a basket was placed upon the top of her head;
a glass of water was raised to her lips and found sticking between
her teeth, and so on. After most of these manifestations the knots
and fastenings were examined by those who tied them. One
of the unbelievers inquired into the matter thoroughly; he had
the window-shutter opened to see that the window overlooked
the adjacent gardens. He examined the floor to see that it
was carpeted in the ordinary way, and he had the window-
curtains moved; he frequently examined the knots, most of
which he had tied, and which held the medium, and said that
he could swear that they were as he had left them.
Mrs. Fay, when questioned as to what she saw while the
manifestations were going on, said that she saw nothing, for
directly she opened her eyes the phenomena stopped, and the
instruments fell to the ground. That there is some power
connected with the human gaze, which tends to weaken physi¬
cal manifestations, is certain, which is why Messrs. Crookes,
Huggins, and Cox, after they had made a test basket, in
which an accordion was to play keys downwards when held at
the upper end by one of Mr. Home’s hands, were obliged
to place their basket under the table instead of on the
top thereof before they could get the manifestatibn, which
was thus favoured by partial darkness, and by being screened
THE SPIRITUALIST.
91
Feb. 19, 1875.
from their eyesight. Sometimes they let observers for a
minute or two watch such phenomena as these, so that the
spirit-hands can be seen doing the manifestations, but the
spirits say that the human glance causes a burning feeling
while it lasts. When materialised spirits show themselves,
and the gaze of the observers becomes too intent, they often
ask them not to stare too fixedly, as it begins to burn them.
Mrs. Fay says that the occasions on which she has seen spirit-
hands through her own mediumship, have been few and far
between.
Four pieces of paper were placed in Mrs. Fay’s lap with a
pair of scissors. The signatures of three of the observers had
been previously placed upon three of the pieces of paper ; the
fourth piece was a leaf of a letter. The curtain was raised,
and immediately the scissors were heard At work cutting the
paper, and it sounded as if a pattern were being cut out of all
four pieces at once, that is to say, as if the scissors were
cutting something thick. In a very short time, probably less
than a minute, the curtain was dropped by request, and four
different patterns were found cut out of the four different
pieces of paper. One of them was cut rather curiously, the
edges of the figure being so sharp everywhere that it could not
be seen where the scissors first entered the paper, and the
paper did not appear to have been folded in such a way that it
would have been possible to have cut out the figure, without
first making a hole with one of the points of the scissors.
After the light seance, was over, it was put to the company,
as usual, whether those who had tied the medium should cut
her free from her bonds, or whether the spirits should do it.
On this occasion, unlike the last one reported in these pages,
it was resolved that the spirits should do it. They accord¬
ingly freed her hands, but not her neck, with a small knife
given to them for the purpose.
Afterwards there was a dark seance, during which Mrs. Fay
sat in the middle of the guests, who were arranged round her
in a circle. Musical instruments floated about in the usual
way, the sitters were touched by materialised hands. Mr.
Harrison’s necktie was taken off and given to somebody at
the other side of the circle. One of Mr. Seville’s boots was
pulled off, and various other physical manifestations of the
usual nature were obtained.
The lady from Dublin who had passed through the strange
experiences described in Mr. Dunphy’s article, recently pub¬
lished in The Spiritualist, entitled “ The Mysterious Man,”
was among the guests present, and after Mrs. Fay’s short
dark seance was over she went into a trance. She said that
she saw an elderly man with a perfectly bare face and a little
moustache standing near one of the sitters, who said that
this description tallied with that of her departed father. The
spirit who made this statement gave the name of “ Oliver
Goldsmith,” and said that he had been with his medium, a
few days ago, to a playhouse, and his opinion was that to
produce good dramatic results the players should be inspired
as much as the writers of the plays. He did not like to see
the play which his medium had attended [“ The New Magda¬
len ”], he thought it was investing with too pleasing an
interest a subject which should have been kept out of sight,
and that the whole play was founded upon erroneous views of
true morality. The public sometimes liked plays which they
would not select to read at home.
At this moment one of the sitters touched the hand of the
entranced medium; she gave a violent start, and uttered a cry
of pain, an effect often seen under similar conditions in
mesmerism when a third person touches a sensitive while
asleep under the control of a mesmeric operator. In this case,
however, a spirit out of the body instead of a spirit in the
body, was controlling the medium.
Next the medium was controlled by “ Abraham Sarson,”
who described himself as a dwarf who lived in the days of
Elizabeth; he complained that the medium had driven her
‘first band of spirits away from her for a week. Next the
medium was controlled by a spirit who gave the name of
Father C , who claimed to be a priest who lived in Ireland
eighty-eight years ago. He said that in his present state he
did not think much of any Of the churches, one being about as
good as another, but that if men would try to do what was
right to the best of their ability, and to carry out good principles
in their lives, that was all they need do. If the medium tried
to send away her own spirits, she . would be surrounded by
worse ones, who had the power to produce illness. He said
that Dean Swift appeared to his medium the other morning;
if she had had pluck enough to speak to him he would have
answered.
It was here explained that one morning recently, the curtains
of her bed were opened, and she saw the spirit of Dean Swift
standing there gazing at her.
Some conversation about Darwinism followed, upon which
the communicating spirit said, “ There is one life of the tree,
another of the animal, and another of the human being. God
made man in His own image, and breathed into his nostrils
the breath of life.” It was difficult to conceive the greatness,
and the glory, and the majesty of the primitive man. The
diversity of the different kinds of life was shown by the
plant breathing what is death to the creature, and the creature
breathing what is death to the plant. How could the image
of God be evolved then from anything base and ignoble ?
Shortly afterwards the seance closed.
SEAHCE WITH MRS. EAT IN' THE PRESENCE OE MR. BLACK¬
BURN" AND FRIENDS.
Last Monday morning a seance took place in the rooms of
Mrs. Fay, 27, Princes-street, Hanover-square, W., in the pre¬
sence of Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester, who had
brought with him two friends from Scotland, and others from
London. Mrs. E. Corner (Florence Cook) and Mr. Harrison
were among the observers. The manifestations were much
the same as those described in the preceding seance held at
Mr. Neville’s. There was no dark seance; Mrs. Fay had just
taken the rooms, and it was found on trial to be impossible to
block out the daylight effectually.
Newspapers of a certain stamp publish articles from
“ loungers,” “ramblers,” “ idlers,” and other Eichard Swivel-
lers. A new journal, called The Pictorial World, has a con¬
tributor who gives himself the honourable title of “ a loiterer
he abuses Spiritualism, then prints how he once sat down to
dinner with a marquis and tasted salmon. Poor fellow!
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Next Thursday a paper will
be read before the members of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism and their friends, by Mr.
W. H. Harrison, on his early experiences in Spiritualism.
Many of these were gained at the residence of Mr. Cromwell
Yarley, long before The Spiritualist newspaper was started,
and have never been published, although they include a
large number of seances with remarkable mediums. Mr.
Yarley has given his consent to their publication, conse¬
quently the facts will be stated at the meeting next Thurs¬
day, which will be held in the rooms of the Association, 74,
Navarino-road,Dalston, E. At the last meeting of the Council
of this Association, held on the 11th instant, Mr. Henry D.
Jencken, M.E.I., barrister-at-law, was formally elected presi¬
dent, and Mr. Thos. Blyton honorary secretary and treasurer.
The revised prospectus, rules, circle regulations, and directions
“ How to form Spirit Circles,” were finally approved and
adopted. Miss Kislingbury and Mr. James Webster were
elected honorary members, and it was resolved to invite Mr.
and Mrs. Bassett, Mr. and Mrs. Parkes, Mrs. C. Woodforde,
Miss Lottie Fowler, Mr. and Mrs. Towns, Miss Keeves, Mr. 0.
E. Williams, and Mr. F. Herne to accept honorary membership.
The National Association oe Spiritualists.—One '
of the effects of organisation in Spiritualism is to educate some
of our most active workers in the duties of public life, and
those members of the Council who for more than a year have
gained experience in public duties are now better fitted for
their work by far than those who have not passed through the
difficulties of the position. A new phase of legislative expe¬
rience is cropping up, namely, the appointment of permanent
salaried officers. At meetings of country boards of guardians,
sometimes there are full attendances when an officer has to be
appointed, and the reading of the credentials of the candidates
is a mere farce, the guardians having attended with their votes
pledged beforehand to the man who has ‘canvassed them most
actively, or to a personal friend. More important public
bodies, such as well managed town councils, get over this dif¬
ficulty by declaring any applicant who directly or indirectly
asks any member of the Council for his vote, to be ineligible
for the appointment, and this ought to be a standing rule of
the National Association of Spiritualists. Now that an Assis¬
tant Secretary is to be appointed, probably candidates will
spring up, never heard of in the Spiritual ^movement before
the fact of a regular salary was presented. The secretaryship is
the most vital point of any organisation, and should be filled
only by those in whom the whole movement has confidence,
and who have become noted during years of trial for their dis¬
interested love for the cause. Fortunately, the National
Association has two splendid honorary secretaries, whose
1 arduous labours have done much towards placing the Asso-
i elation in its present good position.
92
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 19, 1875,
BOUGHT AND SOLD.
I stood to-night in my foam-white iace,
•With pearls in my shining hair,
And I hid my heart with a smiling face,
And the gazers said, “ How fair—
How blithe and bright is the maid to-night,
Who stands at the altar there.”
And I heard them praise the costly things
That purchased my nuptial vow;
Praise the jewel that clings and stings
And burdens my finger now;
The milk-white pearls that twine in my curls
Like a burden on my brow.
Praise as we praise the frozen tree
That the hoar-white frosts begem,
But the cold cuts keen ; for we only see
The glittering diadem;
And the leaves beneath, in the cruel wreath,
We’ve never a thought for them.
Bought with a heap of shining gold!
Bring hither a red-hot rod,
Brand on my brow the warning*1 Sold,
And lost to Heaven and God;”
Tet, weak heart, wait! you chose your fate,
All jewelled and golden shod.
From “ Common Sense ” {San Francisco).
(Kotreaponiieitce*
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and itsreaders.']
SPIETTUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN NEWCASTLE.
Sir,—Beferring to your visit here at the latter part of last
year, and the state of our mediums, and the phenomena
occurring through them at that time, it will be interesting to
you as well as to your readers, to learn a few details of what
has transpired since, more particularly as to the present state
of the manifestations.
The society here has become better organised, and the com¬
mittee have arranged a course of lectures, the first of which
was given by Mr. Barkas last week; the next will follow
shortly, by Mr. Hinde, of Darlington. Misses Wood and
Fairlamb, physical mediums, are being successfully controlled
for materialisations, and we expect soon to be allowed to
see medium and spirit at the same time. The nearest approach
to a test has been presented by the photograph of the spirit
Sissy,” taken under the magnesium light. The little intel¬
ligence appears to have moved, and hastily passed a hand¬
kerchief or some drapery to her face, thus preventing a good
likeness, but the attitude shows conclusively that “ Sissy ” is
a child, and not the medium. Another experiment, carrying
with it indisputable evidence of the reality and identity of
these little spirits, has been ingeniously concocted and
carried out by Mr. Blake. The medium being in the cabinet,
her hand has been wrapped in a piece of the curtain, then
covered with a white handkerchief, and afterwards tied securely
round the wrist. The string can be held by one of the sitters.
Under such conditions, and with a fair light, the little child
came out of the cabinet, and saluted the whole circle. The
photograph by magnesium light is to be repeated, with a pro¬
mise of better results.
The society has entered into a contract with some gentle¬
men of position in the world of letters and science, who are
anxious to investigate the phenomena through Misses Wood
and Fairlamb; they have seen other phenomena, and appear
more struck with what they have met with in this town than
elsewhere. Personally I have been a good deal away from
circles owing to business calls, but have just started a private
circle to meet twice a week for three months, the media being
Willie and Joseph Petty, sons of Mr. Petty, whom you will
remember as being surrounded with a mediumistic family.
The last sitting I had with these lads (one of them about
seventeen, the other fourteen years of age) commenced with a
dark circle, when, under test conditions, a violin and banjo
were brought from the wall outside the circle, and played
upon; a bell on the table in the centre of the circle was lifted
and rung vigorously; at the same time several of the sitters
in the circle were touched. The table was lifted over the
heads of the sitters and placed outside the circle, and during
these powerful and simultaneous manifestations several lights
were seen in the room. While these manifestations were
going on, the fire, which had been supposed to be extin¬
guished, brightened up a bit, and, being just behind me, I
looked round and distinctly saw the play of what ap¬
peared to be a black foot over the glimmer of the fire ; at the
same, time my ear was pulled: one of the media became
entranced, and we were told to put out the fire. The
dark circle was declared a great success by all the sitters,
and we then had a recess, during which little Fanny
Petty, about seven years of age, was controlled and gave
a short address, one part of which was quite beyond
her years. The interest of it was centred in the fact that
she purported to be controlled by a young woman, who will
give her history, and points to her being developed as a
test medium. The programme was first to sit for materialisa¬
tions with Willie, then with Joseph, but “ Chicho,” who is an
African, and controls Willie, was so anxious to please that it
became too late to sit for the materialisation of Jack, another
of the negro race coming through Joseph Petty.
The first figure was a tall lady form, veiled with copious
drapery, said to be a sister of one of the sitters, who came out
several times, and spoke to her sister. Her object seemed
principally to be to show us the medium, which she accom¬
plished quite satisfactorily to some of the sitters who sat in
the front. Much time was spent in trying to show myself and
others the same longed-for marvel, but the light had been put
down since the first attempt, and although we thought we saw
the form and face, we must wait another opportunity to be
sure. Another object seemed to be to bring out two figures
at the same time. This did not come off, but the tran¬
sition from one to the other was very quick. The
second figure was said to be my mother-in-law, who
came out and went to Mrs. Hare, kissed her, [and nodded.
Her face was exceedingly like that of the old lady just before
she quitted this earth a few weeks ago; but the light was at
its lowest point. She went into the cabinet, soon again
emerging, coming straight to me, and I could see the very fac¬
simile of the full-bordered cap which she used to wear; but
could not see her features; the outline, breadth of face,
attitude, and general gait were exact. Her robes differed
from those of Anne, the other form, and her figure also. After
the seance, Mr. Barkas and I searched Willie, and there was
not the slightest trace of any concealed robes, nor was there in
the cabinet. We expect to get likenesses of all these forms in
time, and to be allowed more light as they get greater power.
The mediumship of Mrs. Petty has been suspended on ac¬
count of illness; but her control has ordered her to sit again
very soon, when we expect more marvellous manifestations
than those I have faintly and imperfectly described. Sum¬
ming up, it is a great satisfaction to feel that we have in New¬
castle an array of phenomena second to none in the world,
and the indomitable perseverance of her sons and daughters,
coupled with the willing and all-important aid of the spirit
world, will carry investigation to its legitimate issue—absolute
and incontrovertible proof of the reality of the phenomena,
and we fondly hope and believe that the spiritual cause of it
will also be upheld.
If psychic force is the agent, I confess for one I shall grope
in darkness and land in despair. J. Hare.
15, Chester Crescent, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Feb. 8th, 1875.
ORGANISATION.
Sir,—When Mr. and Mrs. Everitt were on their late provincial
tour, the writer incidentally met them at Darlington ; and as
organisers and non-organisers are very closely allied, that sub¬
ject soon became the topic of close conversation, whenjthe
writer learned that Mr. Everitt and the friends of organisation
generally looked on him as an advocate of disorganisation.
Mr. Everitt was at once informed that it was a mistaken view.
The writer has been a consistent advocate of organisation
relative to Spiritualism since 1849. Space will not permit, or
I might refer to my advocacy of organisation in The New York
Spiritual Telegraph, and to other writings since published in
England. Beference was next made to my papers published,
in The Medium, Aug. 21st and Sept. 11th of last year, in which
I endeavour to sustain a view of Spiritualism independent of
all secondary or man-made organisations, or organisation
additional to that of the Spirit itself, and of the offertory and
voluntaryism which flows directly from the Spirit of God and
that of created beings. But I claimed the indulgence of Mr.
Everitt, and stated that that is not the whole of the subject;
and that my view of organisation and how to organise was not
stated in those papers. I was at once invited to give expression
to my views, he (Mr. Everitt) stating that he had no doubt but
my views would find expression for the consideration of the
friends of organisation through The Spiritualist. I think it
desirable that this paragraph should preface my views of or¬
ganisation, and how to organise.
Feb. 19, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
93
Organisation necessarily implies the existence of more ele¬
ments and subjects than one : for instance, there is law
unchangeable, and therefore absolute; there is gospel—the
messenger and the message—something to be received morally,
and which demands absolutely that it be received, or the
rapport with the sender, also the moral relation of the mes¬
senger to those to whom the message is sent is not established;
and thirdly, there is in this our day a renewal of the action of
a sensuous tangible power and substance called spirit,—the
fact of this renewal is as absolute as the law and the gospel.
Fourthly, the entities of mortals to whom these three abso¬
lutely appeal are immortal beings, and must equally be recog¬
nised as absolute existences. These are the four elements,
then, and they must co-exist in harmonious relation each one
with all the rest, or, there is some defect and consequent
inharmony.. It is a fact that all of these orders, as they
have been successively planted in the earth or mortal exist¬
ence, have each had an infantile spiritual existence; and
secondly, a societary or organised existence.
According to Scriptural history (or according to the natural
history of a single family of to-day) the human kind had its
period of minority and the spiritual family altar at which
both the firstborn (Cain) and the second born (Abel) made
their spiritual offerings until their majority ; at which period
the societary, or the organisation of the family as equal in
majority, commenced. The order of Israel commenced with
the patriarchal and the tribal, then the national and the
legal. The order of Christ commenced with the apostolic
fatherhood and the adopted children, and next the communal
and churchal, afterwards the national. “ Modern Spirit¬
ualism” has also begun with the adopted of the spirit, and
with the patriarchal. Here I might cite many fathers in
Spiritualism who have taken the adopted by the spirit under
their paternal care, providing for them a home, house of
worship, in which is placed the family altar, on which all
might freely make their spiritual offerings, but space will not
permit. One of the first of these patriarchal homes was
planted on Armory Hill, Springfield, Mass., U.S., America,
beginning in 1849. And the first in England was at Keighley,
in Yorkshire, England, beginning in 1858.
Now, the first period of each of these four dispensations of
God, the creation of man, the Israel and the law, the gospel
by Christ, and “ Modern Spiritualism,” may with the strictest
propriety be called “ The Spiritual Institution.” And hence,
as the adopted by the spirit attain to their majority, the
second* or the societary, or the organisation period commences;
but not in the home or house of worship, nor by the
annihilation or the absorption of the same; it must be an
additional order, neither compassing nor being compassed by
the Spiritual Institution. The latter after the period of
organisation had arrived, would be called “The Church,”
and the societary development might be called “ The National
Order of Spiritualism ; ” and the national ought to work for
the promotion of the spiritual church, since its true subjects
must come by the chur ch and its spiritualising power and
means. And secondly, the national order must see to the
further education of the spiritual Israel.
I think I have now come by a very short route to the
question of “ How to Organise,” with harmony, efficiency, and
certainty, the additional order of “ Modern Spiritualism.”
But as my paper seems to be full, perhaps I had better forward
the remainder in another short paper as soon as I can
conveniently do so. D. Richmond.
18, Chapel-street, Darlington.
SPIBITfJALISM AND CHMSTIANITY.
Sib,—As a Spiritualist renounces adherence to the use of
Spiritualism upon the ground of its anti-Christian teachings
and unsatisfactory results, as developed in its professors, I
venture to offer a few reasons from one in a measure in
harmony with her views, as to why he also, after some years’
trial and investigation, does not turn his back upon the sun in
which he sees a few spots. Spots may grow, and the sun, as
foretold, be turned into darkness, and the moon, as reflector
of the sun’s brightness, may not give her light, but He who
made these great lights, is a guardian in whose hands we may
safely trust their preservation.
The Bible reflects the glory of the Sun of Righteousness: any¬
thing that lessens the glory of that Sun dulls the brightness
reflected on the written Word ; those who believe that Word
are taught therein to expect this ; materialism is much more
to be credited with this work than Spiritualism. The one
may dim the Sun, the other ignores its existence.
Gold is not the less gold because it is found mingled with
common clay. It is, when found, of no use to the ignorant,
but a means of evil in the hands of those who habitually
abuse its use. It is idle to despise the advantages God places
in the possession of wealth, because we see those advantages
turned by the defects of the possessor into a curse where they
should have been a blessing.
Brought up in the Christian religion as taught by the
Church of England, accepting its teachings as those most in
accordance with the Bible, and considering that book as the
one most replete with divine wisdom, in spite of all apparent
contradictions, inconsistencies, and obscure passages which
prove stumbling blocks to many, I have always weighed
Spiritualism, its facts, and revelations, by the light which I
find in the written Word: “ If they speak not according to the
law and testimony, there is no light in them,” has been my
motto.
More than six years ago, I found myself suddenly, to my
amazement, a writing and a drawing medium. Spiritualism
I regarded with shuddering horror. I thought it terrible, and
could never speak of the subject, but on one occasion I could
not avoid the presence of a Spiritualist, and was told through
him that I possessed powers of which I had never previously
heard. These powers were then and there developed. Since
then they have been carefully and prayerfully exercised, and I
feel therefore that being able to say something good for Spirit¬
ualism, from what is called in these days an “ old-fashioned ”
Christian point of view, I ought to say it, if not for the con¬
vincing of those who cannot accept in its fullest degree the
idea of the divinity of our Lord Jesus Christ, for the sake of
those who deem that all Spiritual teachings are of necessity
anti-Christian.
Some of my reasons for adherence to Spiritualism, are as
follows:—
I am thereby made to realise the presence of the cloud of
witnesses. The Bible led me to believe this, Spiritualism has
made me realise it. I see in spiritual mediumship a power of
communicating with, and receiving communications from
them; I see a chance therein of communion with the com¬
munion of saints. Once convinced that a devil can manifest
his presence, I am satisfied that God will not withhold the
counterbalancing influence of angelic ministration. “ e
they not all ministering spirits sent to minister to such as
shall be heirs to salvation ? ”
I see a door opened by these means between the seen and
the unseen worlds, leading to a treasure-house of knowledge,
wisdom, and power.
Since I cannot prevent the visits of evil messengers, I find
it best to open this door as widely as I can, that angels also
may see how much their visits are desired. I do not see that
consciousness of the presence of enemies increases the danger
to be dreaded from them, whilst I am certain of the comfort
produced by the realisation of the presence of all-powerful pro¬
tectors commissioned by the Lord of Hosts.
I am strengthened in my love, reverence, and obedience to¬
wards the Father of the Spirits of all flesh, and in watchful¬
ness against the subtle devices of the power of evil.
Through the teachings of those invisible guides that surround
me I learn to comprehend and esteem the inspired writings
accepted by the Christian religion in a higher degree, and
find their pages flooded with light; the inspiration seems
more inspired, and the truth more true. Spiritualism reflects
the Word and the Word illustrates Spiritualism.
I learn hereby the meaning of “ inquiring of the Lord ” and
the ministry of angels, as opposed to “ the seeking of familiar
Spirits ” and demoniacal possession. I am led in the Bible to
expect seducing spirits, teaching doctrines of devils, and therein
am also told to “ try the spirits,” and find the test suggested
by the apostle effectual. I am told by the apostle to desire
spiritual gifts, and I hereby gain some notion as tp what those
gifts are that I am told to desire. Seeing these things, my
Bible leads me to look for the great outpouring of the
Spirit, and I recognise in this great movement the first
welcome drops of the latter rain upon the earth. The
spirits that teach me acknowledge that they bow down to
and worship our Lord Jesus Christ as God; many come also
who refuse thus to acknowledge Him,—to the words of such I do
not listen. I thus protect myself as far as I can according to
the teachings of the Bible as understood by me, and only when
I fail to do so do I find myself deceived. Spiritualism recalls
the happy spirit-communion of patriarchal times, when
Enoch walked with God; by it I am enabled to imagine how
+he inspired writers of the past received their revelations from
the Lord, and by it signs and wonders, and so-called miraeulou
94
THE SPIRITUALIST.
FjeIb. 19, 1875.
appearances, and visits of angels or messengers, are brought
within the range of experience as well as of faith. I joyfully
recognise the living presence of those I thought dead, and
know that they anxiously and prayerfully watch every, step in
my path.
I find all the teachings sent to me have for their object the
honour and glory of God, the elevation and progression of
man’s spirit heavenwards, love to the neighbour and abnega¬
tion of self.
Thus Spiritualism draws one upwards by every feeling that
I most prize and reverence, and as my faith therein is founded
upon the writings in the Bible, and my own personal experi¬
ence after six years’ mediumship, persistently carried out in
the midst of influences breathing ridicule, pity, and contempt,
I thank God that I more than ever see reason to bless the day
in which with astonishment I found myself to be a Spirit¬
ualist. George M. Sutherland.
117, Sloane-street, Feb. 13th, 1875.
THEOLOGICAL OBJECTIONS TO R'PTRTTTTAT.TRTVf.
Sir,—Your impartiality in editing The Spiritualist is com¬
mendable. Arguments showing that they are liable to fall
into dangerous errors who receive as genuine truths the (anti-
Christian*) teachings of some modern mediums are as pro-
mently placed in your pages as are the teachings themselves.
Especially noteworthy js the position accorded in your current
number to Theological Objections to Spiritualism, by an “ Ex-
Spiritualist,” and your answers thereto. By placing these
side by side with the questions, the issues raised are clear and
unmistakable. And I venture to hope that upon these issues
you will allow the subject to be further argued ; for I advisedly
say, after careful thought, that.^in my judgment, all the
mental enlightenment consequent upon a familiarity with the
phenomena of Spiritualism is secondary to a correct decision
upon them.
The two major issues raised—all others being subordinate
thereto—are:—
(a.) The Divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ.
(b.) The plenary inspiration of the Scriptures.
On the one hand, T. L. Harris, the acceptors of Sweden¬
borg’s revelations, and, comparatively, a few others, declare
solemnly their belief that the Lord Jesus Christ is God mani¬
fest in the flesh; and that the Scriptures are plenarily in¬
spired : whilst, on the other hand, A. J. Davis, J. M. Peebles,
J. J. Morse, Emma Hardinge (Britten), and a very large
number of minor prophets, each alleging their inspiration to
be from the spirit-world, deny both the Divinity of the Lord,
and the inspiration of the Scriptures ; affirming the Lord to be
a man only, and the Scriptures to be unreliable.
Is it of consequence that the truth or falsity of these denials
he established ? Yes, every way; because it is a fixed law,
perceived by every intelligent person, that a man’s life gradu¬
ally conforms to the quality of the ideal he inmostly worships.
If, then, God be not manifest in the flesh, man has no
Divine image to which his life can conform. Natural objects
cannot furnish him with one, for they are in an infinite variety
of forms, and cannot be unitised into a worshipful ideal. He
is consequently Godless, and sinks into pantheism or poly¬
theism.
But if God be manifest in the flesh, and the Scripture re¬
velations of Him be unreliable, man is without a criterion by
which he may form a correct judgment concerning the Divine
nature and attributes. Consequently every one fashions his
own God; but he can only do so after an ideal, and nature
only remains. But natiire cannot be unitised into a wor¬
shipful ideal. Therefore man sinks into pantheism, or poly¬
theism, and is Godless.
Now, as it is a fixed law that a man’s life gradually con¬
forms to the quality of the ideal he inmostly worships; and
as it has been shown that the quality of the denial of the
divinity of the Lord, and the plenary inspiration of the Word
is idolatrous, it follows that a man who denies in his inmost
mind the divinity of the Lord, and the plenary inspiration of
the Scriptures, is an idolater.
From the foregoing your correspondent, “ Ex-Spiritualist,”
was justified in saying that “ the consequences of abandoning
faith in Christ for the false teachings of * * * mediums
were miserable.”
Pare and undefiled Spiritualism comes from above, from
the Father of Lights. Christianity came from the same
source. Christianity has failed in its mission because its
* By anti-Christian I mean the denial in word or deed of the Divinity of
the Lord Jesus Christ, and the truths flowing therefrom,—C. W. P.
” creed ” has been made idolatrous,, and the consequent
|f manner of life ” of so-called Christians, as a rule, has no
correspondence with the Divine life. In like manner also, in
my judgment, is modern Spiritualism being perverted from
the glory and end of its use.
You can help to avert this. Your desire I know to be to
gather truth and disseminate it; therefore, open your columns
and invite a full discussion of the whole subject, whilst you
editorially reserve your judgment. In this manner truth will
flourish; and, believe me that I am not speaking without due
consideration when I say, many will thank God for The Spirit¬
ualist. C. W. Pearce.
14, Bumley-road, S.W., Feb. 16, 1875.
THE QUEEN’S SPEECH.
Sir,—One portion of the recent speech from the Throne
recommends the appointment of a public prosecutor. The
carrying out of this proposition ought to be watched very
closely, to see that the powers that be shall not hereafter be
able to attack any unpopular movement, at the expense of the
nation ; for instance, a wanton onslaught upon genuine spirit
mediums would secure the sympathies of the uninformed
public. I think a public prosecutor will very probably be an
expensive public nuisance, and be a godsend to the unprin¬
cipled section of the legal fraternity. Those of the public
who know what law is, will now suffer any injustice rather
than have anything to do with its sad vexations, and enor¬
mous expenses, but a public prosecutor may enable lawyers
who cannot get business to make it more than they do at
present, and perhaps our mediums, and the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, if it recognises them, may become the
subjects of interesting legal experiments at the hands of the
new functionary. I make these remarks without prejudice to
respectable solicitors, who are, like ourselves, the slaves of a
bad system handed down by our forefathers. X.
THE BEAL AND THE IDEAL.
Sib,—Mankind has ever felt the want of sbme great power
to lead it on its heavenward path, and give it light and life.
The dreary teachings of theology can no longer hold men’s
minds in bondage, nor does the flaming sword still guard
the mystic tree of Eden, and bar man from his great
inheritance. Christ, when He came, declared that He
was sent to bring life and immortality to light, and although
I do not endorse all the church’s views upon this subject,
I freely admit that darkness fled before the face of Him who
spake with a purity, and strength, and wisdom, which the
world had never heard before.
To those who ask us what is life—the real and the ideal—
we say, Who shall define the difference between the two ?
The ideal of to-day is the reality of the morrow. The
man who sows his fields with grain in spring-time, and
looks forward to the autumn to furnish him with a bounteous
supply of the golden store; he lives in both the real and the
ideal, the one follows the other, and partakes of its nature,
until both become alike. The poet who pictures a heaven
upon earth, filling the world with visions of life and beauty;
who paints his fellow-man as dealing justly and kindly to all
around, thereby making a heaven here below, he lives in the
ideal to-day; but as years roll on, and generation after gene¬
ration of men are born into the world, to move through it for
awhile, and leave their impress upon all around, society shall
be changed by slow yet sure degrees; and when the blest
reality of what he pictured has come to pass—as it most
surely shall do—he then “ shall see of the travail of his
soul, and be satisfied,” and the ideal shall have become real.
For what is life ? Is it the simple moving up and down
upon the earth, varied a little by spring and summer time,
by eating and by sleeping ? Is gathering gold, or spending
it, is this life ? And yet to many this appears to be the be-all and
the end-all of existence. But surely it was not for this alone God
placed us here.1 Who, who can measure the precious boon of
existence, this glorious gift of life? ” To be or not to be? ”
What a destiny is embraced in the very thought! To be—to
wander forth through all eternity the child of God and of His
care. To hear the song of full-choired cherubim and seraphim,
blending its harmony with the roll of the thunder, the rush of
the avalanche, thfe deepening roar of the cataract, the twitter
of the bird upon the bough, the hum of bee and insect, and
the song of praise welling from holy hearts, all forming one
grand anthem ever floating around the throne of God. To
search into the depths of creation, and view the wonders of
Feb. 19, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
95
His hand. Or not to be ? Oh, horrible idea ! Well may we
thank Him “ for our creation, preservation, and all the bless¬
ings of this life,” for beyond this no greater boon can be
given to man, than that of a pure and loving heart to read His
works aright. Talk not of life as real and ideal too. It is all
real, it is all ideal: and if we serve Him truly day by day, the
ideal of to-day shall become the blessed reality of to-morrow,
filling our hearts with joy and gladness.
“ Oh, the depth of the riches of the mercy and power of
God ! ” How unspeakable are His ways, and His thoughts
past finding out ! And yet we shall find them out, and ever
learn more and more of Him in whom we live, and move, and
have our being ; for He is in us, and we in Him, and nothing
in earth or heaven shall ever separate us therefrom. “ Amen,
Amen. Even so saith the Spirit.” T. L. Henly.
THE SLEEPIER GIRL OE TURTILLE.
Sib,—From my large experience in mesmerism, I have very
little doubt but that the sleeping girl at Turville might be
cured by that means, if some patient and efficient person
would undertake the case. “ Like cures like ;” once convert the
natural into the artificial sleep, and the girl is cured: she then
most probably would become clairvoyant, and direct her own
case. It is a thousand pities that the trial should not be made.
Will not some ardent Spiritualist go down to try ? Surely the
power that moves the table should be able to act in
this case, call the force psychic force, or spiritual, or
animal magnetic ; never mind what our view may be as to the
power at command; once get the patient under control, and
persevere, and I am satisfied that all would go well, and great
would be the happiness and reward to any one who should do
this good deed. If need be let a subscription be opened for
the purpose, and I will willingly subscribe. It is possible that
the sleep is already of a mesmeric character, and could be
easily dealt with. I should place my left hand under the
head, covering the cerebellum, for that I have reason to believe
is the part chiefly concerned, and with my right hand make
passes over the head and face, occasionally resting the hand
on the top of the head and forehead; I should also breathe
upon the eyes. I wish I could undertake the case myself, but I
cannot; yet surely there is some one willing and able to make
the attempt, and I shall not appeal in vain.
I once cured a young lady, bringing her out of a cold death¬
like trance, in which she must have passed away ; indeed, Dr.
Elliotson thought she must be dead before I arrived, but I
got her into a mesmeric state. We were forced to keep her in
the mesmeric sleep for seven months, otherwise she instantly
fell into the same dead trance, Dr. Elliotson and myself taking
it in turns to be with her night and day. She still lives, is
quite well, and has a healthy family.
Now with this case, Dr. Elliotson, Dr. Partridge—in whose
house she was—and Dr. Wood, and all who knew her circum¬
stances, were perfectly satisfied that in all that time she
never retained either food or liquid; we occasionally got her
to swallow something'but it instantly returned, and generally
accompanied with blood. She was a remarkable clairvoyant,
and would fall into those beautiful and pure states of mind
that we can only term angelic. I had a mesmeric patient
once, a lady who always seemed to hear heavenly music in
her state of somnambulism, as this sleeping girl did before her
sleep, which showed her state to be abnormal before sleep.
Henry G. Atkinson.
Hotel de la Gare, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
[Mr. Ashman, the best healing medium at present in this country, of
whose powers some further information will shortly be published in The
Spiritualist, is just the man to take this case in hand, and to carry out Mr.
Atkinson’s very sensible advice.—Ed.]
Mb. and Mrs. Everitt are expected to visit Portsmouth
shortly, where the Eev. Thomas Colley is working actively to
draw public attention to Spiritualism.
Mrs. Tappan’s Lectures.—Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan is
still delivering interesting inspirational addresses every Sun¬
day evening, at the Cavendish Eooms, Mortimer-street,
Regent-street, at seven o’clock. Even non-Spiritualists who
attend are struck by the superiority of her addresses to the
ordinary sermons in orthodox churches. Her lecture next
gunday will be on “ Transmigration, Reincarnation, and all
that is known with regard to Man’s Embodiment,” on some
of which subjects there will be warm discussions in England
after Allan Eardeo’s books are published by’Mr. Triibner.
THE HAPPINESS OF TRUE RELIGION.
The following quotation from the Hampshire Telegraph
expresses some of the religious views of the Rev. Thomas
Colley, curate of the Parish Church, Portsmouth, who wrote
a letter recently to the National Association of Spiritualists,
per Mr. Martin Smith, expressing views strongly in favour of
Spiritualism:—
On Wednesday evening last week the curate of St. Thomas’s
Church (the Rev. Thomas Colley), preached a sermon from
Exodus v., 1, “ Let my people go that they may hold a feast
unto me in the wilderness.” In the course of the sermon he
said: Now it is the first day in Lent, the beginning of the forty
days of abstinence and fasting, and in allusion to this let me
at the outset say that
“Religion never was designed
To make our pleasures less
and yet how - strangely men have thought the sweets of God
to be the very sourness of the soul, and bitterness of spirit to
evince true godliness. What blundering blockheads these
must be who judge the God of heaven and the laws of God
thus wrongly; who think that piety should wear a piteous
look, and true devotion be demure; that the sanctity of a
noble life should be interpreted by the sleek suavity of
what the world calls cant, purity by pretence, holiness by
hypocrisy, religion by rant; who would have us think that
God Almighty loves a gloomy visage, and that it is our duty
ever to be hanging down our heads like guilty culprits and
writing bitter things against ourselves, ever wretched, ever
mournful, full of misery, sorrowful and sad ! Why, the sun
shines,/and the birds sing, and the flowers bloom ; and there
should be sunshine in the heart too. But if some of these
ascetic zealots and gloomy fanatics and strait Pharisees had
the making of the world again, the sun should have been
black, the day dark and scowling, the birds would unlearn
their tuneful notes and scream out the doleful hootings of the
owl, and this brave world—the reflex of a braver world above
—shrouded in gloom and darkness, would be but a blurred and
foggy semblance of it,'if not indeed a sad picture of something
worse. Saints would be fewer still, and sinners more than
many, and men would cease to grow to angel-hood and dwarf
the other way. But mischievous as are these false views of
God, and our neighbour, and heaven, and the world, their
power for evil reaches not to this extent. So the warmth of
love may yet glow, and the light of truth yet shine un¬
dimmed by ecclesiasticism, modern monkery, sectarian sanc¬
timoniousness, or denominational dolour; and religion may
be felt to be a thing of love, and seen to be a lovely
truth. ’Tis not, as many would unwisely make it, a gloomy
thing, but, comes to take our gloom away. “ These
things,” saith the holy Jesus, ” I have spoken unto you,
that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might
be fulltherefore, saith the Lord, “ let my people go,
that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness ”—a
feast where all is glad; • a feast where plenty is and want
unknown; a feast where the hungry are fed and the sad
grow merry ; a feast where laughter is, and sorrow is not;
where peace and contentment are, and strife and discord are
not; where the song is heard, and weeping is not—a feast,
a feast, yea, “ let my people go, that they may hold a feast
unto me in the wilderness.” There may be days of absti¬
nence and. times of fasting needed by the soul, and Lent
is set apart for this, and Wednesday and Friday, too, in
every week, might better be observed as convenient seasons
for special acts of self-denial and self-deprivation, for our
poorer neighbours’ good. For they who have enough and
to spare should sometimes fast for their poorer neighbours’
feasting; should exercise some little abstinence for the
hungry’s feeding; should use a little self-denial, that the
poor starveling may profit thereby. Indeed, at times we
should want a little, that others may have less want,-and,
if necessary, we should on fit occasions starve a little, that
others may not starve much; and especially through Lent,
and perhaps more especially at all other times, we should
starve our tempers, faults, failings, selfishness, and evil
concupiscence, and lay siege to our souls, and starve out
the garrison of evil that is quartered within. Let pride also
keep a forty days’ fast, and die at last from sheer exhaustion
and want of pampering. Let there be abstinence from luxury,
that your poor neighbour in the back court may have sufficient
in things necessary from the overplus of your dainty, and,
above all, let there be the better abstinence from every ap¬
pearance of evil, self-righteousness, austerity, severity, and
96
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 19, 1875.
accursed Pharisaism of whatever name, tribe, brood, or sect;
and still let the song and the feast, with thanksgiving and the
laughter of a merry heart that doeth good like medicine, never
be wanting or altogether lost; but let music and heart-joy,
sunshine and gladness, dwell within and ever be radiant with¬
out, for Christ’s command is that “ when ye fast be not as the
hypocrites, of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their
faces that they may appear unto men to fast; verily I say unto
you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou fastest,
anoint thine head and wash thy face, that thou appear not
unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which seeth in secret;
and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.”
SPIRIT HANDS.
Captain J. James, of Jersey Villas, Tottenham, has favoured
us with the following description of the materialised spirit-
hands, which he saw while sitting alongside the medium, Mr.
Bastian, at a recent public seance at which we were present.
It will be noticed that he testifies to have seen hands not the
duplicates of those of the medium, and that he gives the
strongest possible evidence in favour of the fact of materiali¬
sation. He was in the best position for observing the hands,
which were visible to all the spectators when they were thrust
over the top of the shawl:—
One evening in the month of September, 1874,1 attended a
spiritual seanc? held by Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, the
American mediums. Towards the close of the dark seance
the spirit “ George,” who constantly presides over the seances
held by the above-named gentlemen, said—“ Light the room,
and let Captain James sit with the medium.” This was a
privilege I had long desired, as I could not feel absolutely
certain that the persons I had hitherto seen chosen were not
in collusion with the medium. I had never observed anything
suspicious in his conduct, but felt that it would be more
satisfactory to me were I to be entrusted with the custody of
the medium. I therefore gladly consented, as, in case there
should be any materialisation of spirit hands, I should, from
my position, be able to satisfy myself as to the genuineness of
the phenomena.
I seated myself close to Mr. Bastian, in a corner of the room,
holding his hands, my left foot pressed against his right, and
can truly certify that he never once moved during the whole
time we sat together.
A dark cloth was then hung in front of us, nearly as high
as our shoulders, and the ends of the cloth were tacked to the
two walls, forming the angle or corner of the room, the com¬
pany, including Mr. Taylor, being seated at a distance of about
eight feet. As I sat turned half-face towards the medium, I could
see distinctly the whole of the space behind us, down to the
carpet, on which was placed a musical box and a small bell.
The first thing that occurred was that the box began to play,
but soon stopped. The bell then rose, and with great velocity
flew past my face and fell in the middle of the room. Hands
of various sizes darted, or rather glided, over my left shoulder,
and as they reached to about the centre of my chest, were
plainly visible to the whole company.
Some of the hands I observed to become materialised about
half-way between my left shoulder and the floor; some came
from behind the medium, some from behind me. I heard,
after the conclusion of the seance, that a bare arm and hand
were seen above my head, but of course, from my position,
ihey were, invisible to me. Occasionally a hand would rise,
play with the medium’s shirt-collar, and then suddenly melt
away. The hands were quite human in appearance, but their
motion very peculiar; I can only liken it to the lambent mo¬
tion of an advancing flame.
I could observe a marked difference between three of the
hands, two of them being apparently the hands of females,
one having delicate, tapering fingers, and a wrist covered
with a piece of black silk or velvet, or it might have been the
end of a sleeve. The other female hand was small, but the
tips of the fingers were much spread, as if their owner had
done a great deal of work during her lifetime; the nails were
very short, I could not perceive any wrist attached to the
hand. I observed also a man’s hand, long and bony, and, as
far as I could judge, nearly half as large again as the hand of
the medium.
Finding myself in the position of “ master of the ceremonies
to the ghosts,” I thought it a good opportunity for testing the
intelligence of the force now exhibiting. I accordingly requested
one of the company to come close to me, and to hold a ring on
the open palm of his hand. A gentleman came forward with a
ring. I then said, “ Please take the ring.” A hand suddenly
darted over the curtain and carried off the ring.” “ Please
return it.” The ring was instantly replaced in its owner’s
hand. The bell was placed on my shoulder, and at my request
carried away. I then said, “Please pull my ear,” I imme¬
diately saw a hand materialised, which, gliding upwards,
pulled my ear and patted my face; this was observed by every
one in the room.
I may here observe that the mediums never once interfered
or objected to any of my experiments; and this fact, joined
to the evident display of intelligence shown in the movements
of the hands, seems to me a satisfactory answer to those who
might attribute the phenomena to the work of machinery;
and as regards collusion, I must at any rate have been the
best judge as to the force-of that charge. Possibly the experi¬
ments did not carry conviction to the minds of many of the
spectators; to me they were absolutely satisfactory.
At a subsequent seance the room was crowded, there being
about twenty people present. The heat was very great, the
medium much exhausted by the dark seance, and the mani¬
festations in the light were comparatively weak. I was again
chosen by the spirits to sit with the medium; the hands were
materialised, and were seen by the spectators, but there
appeared to be a want of power, as they never reached
nearly as far over the curtain as they had done on the pre¬
vious occasion; and although at my request a hand attempted
to pull my ear, it only succeeded in just touching it. It was
observed on this occasion that some of the hands appeared
under the curtain, and that they handled one or two small
objects; and this circumstance was probably rather convincing
to some of those present, as that feat evidently could not
have been performed by either the medium or myself without
immediate detection.
Pa.ssed to Spieit Life.—One of the oldest mediums in this
country, Mrs. Marshall, senr., passed to spirit life on Friday
last, and her earthly remains were interred in Willesden
Cemetery last Wednesday afternoon. She was born on the
6th of January, 1799, and has just passed her seventy-sixth
birthday. She had been in failing health for a year; but was
only confined to her bed during the past month. She will
long be remembered in connection with the early history of
the movement.—Ethel Ellen, youngest child of Mr. J. E.
Ponder, passed to the higher life, Feb. 5th, aged four years
three months; she was grand-daughter of Mr. W. Ponder, of
Brixton.
Spibitealism ik East Londok.—On Sunday evening
last Mr. Cogman delivered an interesting lecture in.the trance
state at the rooms at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, E., to a
fair audience, the subject of which was,“ Nature Analogically
Compared with Man, Spiritually and Physically.” In the
course of his address he said that man learns from nature the
laws of progress, and nature tells him that he must live. He
sees living things around him, which appear to die when the
stormy elements are raging around them, but which spring up
again in the summer time. And when man has passed
through the ordeal of winter on this earth, the spring comes
and fills up the vacuum of his fear of death. Then it is that
the summer-time presents itself so beautifully to his vision,
and he is enabled to behold more clearly and more spiritually
himself; and, in consequence, his spirit begins to bloom. If,
then, things in nature are controlled by certain laws, man
must feel that he, too, is governed by laws, some of which he
feels to be of a spiritual nature, inherent in himself. Nature,
then, should be watched, and her laws followed, if man him¬
self is to bring forth the best fruits of the spirit. Questions
were asked, and the replies gave evident satisfaction. Miss
Young was then entranced, and gave several extemporaneous
poems.
OATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform ber friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and Kew Year's Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived, and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are Unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8Jd. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
Feb. 19, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIEY0YANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Yemon-place,
BloomsbUry-squaro, W.O., •
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seancei
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s."; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
ANNIE EYA FAY has the honour to announce that
she will resume her LIGHT and DARK SEANCES on Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday Evenings, at 8 o’clock, at her Residence, 21,
Princes-street, Hanover-square, W.. She is also prepared to give seances at
the private residences of the nobility and gentry.
Annie eya fay’s extraordinary light
and DARK SEANCES. Tickets, 10s. each, may be had of Mrs. Fay,
21, Princes-street, Hanover-square; also at Mitchell’s, 33. Old Bond-street;
Ollivier, 38, Old Bond-street; Bubb, 167, New Bond-street; Lacon and
Olliver, 168, New Bond-street; and all agents.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, ‘will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seanbes attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o'clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
f . Letters, at. 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Re&isxer your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational speaker,
is now on a Lecturing tour ip the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
ad, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. Ey letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each; hour
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK and SADLER,. TRANCE and PHYSI¬
CAL MEDIUMS, are OPEN to ENGAGEMENTS in any part of
the Country, for Private or Public Seances. Terms, as per arrangements.
Seances (when at home), Wednesday, 2s. 6d.; Saturday, 5s. Address, No.
1a, Nelson-terrace, Cardiff.
Trance mediumship for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Numberger
Strasse, 21. Price-5s. for six months.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.O
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairn s-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., Wes* Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-yilla, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fi*z-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W,
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W«
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road St. John’s-wood
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., Birmingham.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Olub-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northeote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A,M.D., LL.D., &c.,17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenbprg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adehna Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq:, 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C instant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S.A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52. Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr, Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.,1
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 19, 1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because witHinthe last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869,'as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.G.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.j Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq,; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
MJR.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Eeed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary,-Esq., B.A.; Edward W. iCox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston,'Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and ip
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ .  N  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIECLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained oh thA-first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six. individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms- of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the. sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations!.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed, read-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known'why. Belief or unbelief
has no. influence on the manifestations, flht an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage ;in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltihgs or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion;* let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table thatthree tilts or'raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No’,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak-the'letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be,given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
.system of communication is established.
«y.,.~8. Afterward^the question should be put, “Are.we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestation?” Probably some members of the
circle will then'be told to'change seats with each other, and the signals will
fle* ■afterwards'strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” Wtien
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body. - ,
9. A ’powerfuDpjL'ysical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media Are ladies.
The" best manifestations are * obtained when the medium and all the
haembers of the-ciacld' are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestati.ohs.aro born of the
spirit, and shrink soinewhat frpm the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles^ with no’ strangers, present, are usually the best,
^I'Pos^lg^aJtj'the first ^sitting of a’circle symptoms of other forms of
inediiflmship than^tsnr fiaps may make their appearance.
■ .” •' ' " -"ii'i’-y-';'-"'-’ "
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBICE TWOPENCE.
>'v ESTABLISHED IN 1869.'
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper corinected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all tjie English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in'connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause) ; Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Bobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs: Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. .Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H.
M.. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawa ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London\ Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smvrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Biohardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
FT!HE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
X SPIBITUAL TELEGBAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIBITUAL DEPABTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also _the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematieal discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
Beady by January 1 1875. Suitable for a New-Y ear’s Gift Book, A new
work on
Spiritualism, science, and Christianity,-
showing their Harmony and Belationship, and will be specially
adapted'for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be'essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topiqStrelative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Mediumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. 6d.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holborn, London, W.C.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Eeform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 24d. Published on
the 15th of each month, b', the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Beigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
MISS ANNA BLACKWELL’S TRANSLATIONS. OF THE
WORKS OF
ALLAN KARDEC.
In the Press, and will be shortly published;
l?-THE-4iPIRI.TS’ BOOK. - From the. 120th. thousand.
>.MF,DJJTMS’. ROOK. From ^e ,80th ~ V .
tJtheY’Volumes in preparatiemr-   a:.~"A-\. . —.
London; Trubner and Co., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
Printed for the "Proprietor .by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s' Bents; High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W;
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.C.'
i:
