4
A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREff Of THE 3CIEJMCE /NO ETHICJ5 OF fPIfITU/i^ffM.
No. 24.—Yol. I.
LONDON: TUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1871.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
SPIRITUALISM AT THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
The first waves of the rapidly rising tide of Spirit¬
ualism have begun to make their influence felt at the
British Association, and as very little is practically
known in Edinburgh about Spiritualism, some of the
Scotch professors have rashly committed the British
Association to a line of action which will live in history,
just the same as has been the case with the suppression
of Benjamin Franklin's paper on lightning conductors
by the Royal Society. The facts of the case are that
some thousands of persons, headed by men eminent in
the ranks of literature and science, publicly declare that
there is a life beyond the grave, and that the spirits of
disembodied men are by scientific methods trying hard,
and in many cases successfully, to establish direct com¬
munication with their friends now living upon earth.
Manifestly a grander and nobler problem than that of
the truth or error of Spiritualism, never presented
itself to the scientific world, yet some of the leading
officials of the British Association, instead of raising the
logical and sensible cry of “ investigate,” have descended
, to abuse and misrepresentation.
PEOFESSOK ALLEN THOMSON ON SPIEITtTALISM.
We begin with Professor Allen Thomson, and print
in full what he said on the subject. How he misguided
and misinformed his hearers, nearly every reader of
these pages will see at a glance, but we intersperse a
few remarks, for the information of those, who, like
Professor Thomson, know nothing .about Spiritualism.
In his presidential address to the Biological Section, on
the third of this month, Professor Thomson said :—
“ I cannot conclude these observations without adverting to
one aspect in which it might be thought that biological
science has taken a retrograde rather than an advanced posi¬
tion. In this, I do not mean to refer to the special cultivators
of biology in its true sense, but to the fact that there appears
to have taken place of late a considerable increase in the
inaibbrjief'persons^who believe^, or who imagine that they
believe, in the class;of phenomena which are now’called
spiritual, but which have been long known—since the exhi¬
bitions of Mesmer, and, indeed, long before his time—under
the most varied forms, as liable to occur in persons .of an
imaginative turn of mind and peculiar-nervous susceptibility.
It is still more to be deplored that-many persons devote a
large share of their time to the practice—for it does not
deserve the name of study or investigation—of the alleged
phenomena, and that a few men of acknowledged reputation
in . some departments of science have lent their names, and
surrendered their judgment, to the countenance and attempted
authentication of the foolish dreams of the practitioners of
spiritualism, and similar chimerical hypotheses. The natural
tendency to a belief in the marvellous'is sufficient to explain
the ready acceptance of such views by the ignorant; and it is
not improbable that a higher species of similar credulity may
frequently act with persons of greater cultivation, if their
scientific information has been of a partial kind.”
Professor Allen Thomson, who brings the charge of
the possession of partial scientific knowledge against so
many gentlemen of eminence in the scientific world, is,
we are informed, a Glasgow anatomist, who has never
seen any spiritual manifestations, but has witnessed
some of those obscure and abnormal mesmeric pheno¬
mena which sometimes develope themselves in connection
with hospital patients.
Professor Thomson further said—
“ It must be admitted, further, that extremely curious and
rare, and, to those who are not acquainted with nervous pheno¬
mena, apparently marvellous phenomena, present themselves
in peculiar states of the nervous system—some of which states
may be induced through the mind and may be made more and
more liable to recur, and greatly exaggerated by frequent
repetition. But making the fullest allowance for all these
conditions, it-is still surprising that persons otherwise appear¬
ing to be within the bounds of sanity, should entertain a con¬
firmed belief in the possibility of phenomena, which, while
they are at variance with the best established physical laws,
have never been brought under proof by the evidences of the
senses, and are opposed to the dictates of sound judgment.”
Spiritual phenomena are not at variance with any
laws of nature; they are governed by laws at present
unknown, but which sometimes produce more powerful
effects than do the. known laws of matter.
Professor Thomson continued:—
“ It is so far satisfactory^ ih the interests of true biological
science that no man of npte can be named from the long list
of thoroughly well-informed anatomists and physiologists,
who has not treated tbe belief in 'the separate existence Of
powers of animal magnetism and Spiritualism as wild specu¬
lations, devoid of all foundation in the carefully tested obser-
tion of facts. It has been the habit of votaries of the systems to
which I h ave referred, to assert that scientific men have neglected
or declined to investigate the phenomena with attention and
candour ; but nothing can be farther from the truth than this
statement. Not to mention the admirable reports of the early
French academicians, giving the account of the negative
result of an examination of the earlier mesmeric phenomena
by men in every way qualified to pronounce judgment on
their nature, I am aware that from time to time men of
eminence, and fully competent, by their knowledge of
biological phenomena, and their skill and accuracy in con¬
ducting scientific investigation, have made the most patient
and careful examination of the evidence placed before them
by the professed believers and practitioners of so-called
magnetic, phreno-magnetic, electro-biological, and Spiri¬
tualistic phenomena ; and the result has been uniformly the
same in all cases when they were permitted to secure condi¬
tions by which the reality of the phenomena, or the justice of
their interpretation, could be tested—viz., either that the ex¬
periments signally failed to educe the results professed, or
that the experimenters were detected in the most shameless
and determined impostures. I have myself been fully con¬
vinced of this by repeated examinations. But were any
guarantee required for the care, soundness, and efficiency of
the judgment of men of science on these phenomena and
views, I have only to mention, in the first place, the revered
name of Faraday, and in the next that of my life-long friend
Dr. Sharpey, whose ability and candour none will dispute,
and who, I am happy to think, is here among us, ready, from
his past experiences of such exhibitions, to bear his weighty
testimony against all cases of levitation, or the like, which
may be the last wonder of the day among the mesmeric or
spiritual pseudo-physiologist.”
Earaday did not investigate Spiritualism. He was
invited to do so by Sir Emerson Tennent, and wrote
several insulting questions, which he wished Mr. Home
to answer before he would attend a seance. Mr. Home
took no notice whatever of this letter of his, and
indeed, never wrote to him in the first instance. Edra-
day stopped at home, and by means of experiments
made by himself at the Royal Institution, convinced
himself that the table motions were the result of uncon¬
scious muscular action. Those who had practical
knowledge of Spiritual manifestations laughed at this
explanation, because they knew that solid objects
sometimes move about in broad daylight in the pre¬
sence of media, without being touched by anybody or
anything.
As to the experiments in mesmerism of the early
French academicians, mesmerism is not Spiritualism,
but only a branch of it. Those academicians who in¬
quired into it, admitted many of Mesmer’s facts but
denied his conclusions.
Professor Thomson -speaks ,vaguely and omits to give
the names and addresses of his “men of eminence.”
He also does'not expose and give the names and ad¬
dresses of the shameless and determined impostors he
and his friends have detected, for which he is greatly
to blame, since by hushing up the facts he does not
stop them in their work, but leaves them still to prey
upon the public. It is an immoral act on his part to
protect them in this way.
We are not aware that Dr. Sharpey has investigated
Spiritualism to such an extent as to have been present
at a single seance with any medium who has been re¬
cognised as such in these pages. What he may have
done rh mesmerism is another matter. If he has in¬
vestigated Spiritualism how is it that Spiritualists do
not know of it, and why has he not published the facts ?
He might have done so during the recent Edinburgh
meeting, or in the course of his celebrated speech at the
public dinner which took place while the British Asso¬
ciation met at Dundee.
Professor Allen Thomson closed by saying: —
“ The phenomena to which I have at present referred, be
they false or real, are in great part dependent upon a natural
principle of the hum an'mind, placed, as it would appear, in
dangerous alliance with certain tendencies of the nervous
system. They ought not to be worked upon without the
greatest caution, and they can only be fully understood by the
accomplished physiologist who is also conversant with
psychology. The experience of the last hundred years tends
to show that there will always exist a certain number of minds
prone to adopt’a belief in the marvellous and striking in pre¬
ference to that which is easily understood and patent to the
senses ; but it may be confidently expected that the diffusion
of a fuller and more acurate knowledge of vital phenomena
among the non-scientific classes of the community may lead
to a juster appreciation of the phenomena in question, and a
reduction of the number among them who are believers in the
impossible. As for men of science who persist in submitting
to such strange perversion of judgment, we can only hope that
the example of their less instructed fellow-countrymen may
lead them to allow; themselves to be guided more directly by
the principles of common sense than by the erratic tendencies
of a too fervid imagination.”
Considering that throughout the speech we have
quoted, Professor Allen Thomson spoke learnedly re¬
specting things of which he has no knowledge, and
thoroughly misled such of his hearers as trusted in him,
it is to be hoped that he may before long acquire a
“fuller and more accurate knowledge” of those vital and
physical phenomena which form the foundation of
modern Spiritualism.
PEOEESSOK TAIT ON SPIBITUALISM.
In his presidential address to the Mathematical and
Physical Science Section, Professor Tait said:—
“ Spiritualists, circle-squarers, perpetual-motionists, believers
that the earth is flat and that the moon has no rotation, swarm
about us. They certainly multiply much faster than do
genuine men of science. This is characteristic of all inferior
races, but it is consolatory to remember that in spite of it these
soon become extinct. Tour quack has his little day, and
disappears except to the antiquary. . . . One herd of
ignorant people, with the sole 'prestige of rapidly increasing
numbers, and with the adhesion of a few fanatical deserters
from the ranks of science, refuse to admit that all the
phenomena even of ordinary dead matter are strictly and
exclusively in the domain of physical science. On the other
hand, there is a numerous group, not in the slightest degree
entitled to rank as physicist^—though in general they assume
the proud title of philosophers—who assert that not merely
life, but even volition and .‘consciousness are‘mere physical
manifestations. These opposite errors, into neither of which
is it possible for a genuine scientific man to fall, so long at
least as he retains his reason, are easily seen to be very closely
allied. They are both to be, attributed to that credulity which
is characteristic alike of ignorance and of incapacity. Un¬
fortunately there is no cure—the case is hopeless—for great
ignorance almost necessarily presumes incapacity, whether it
show itself in the comparatively harmless folly of the
Spiritualist, or in the pernicious nonsense of the materialist.
Alike condemned and contemned, we leave them to their
proper fate—oblivion ; but still we have to face the question
—-where to draw the line between that which is physical and
that which is utterly beyond physics.
Professor Tait is one of tbe best men that ever drew
breatb, and is a very clever mathematician and physical
philsopher, so it is a pity that in his official capacity he
has committed the British Association, by stating his
private opinions about a subject of which he knows
nothing. The deplorable ignorance he speaks about is
on his own side, and it is to be hoped that he may
meet with some poor ignorant medium—the more igno¬
rant the better—to teach him what he does not know;.
PEOEESSOE STOKES ON SPIEITUAUISM.
Mr. William Crookes, E.R.S., sent in a long paper,
containing about sixteen pages of closely written matter,
to Section A of the British Association, in which he told
how, among other experiments, he had made the raps
register the vibrations they set up in the sounding sur¬
face ; this registration was done by means of a self
recording instrument. The experiment, of course,
proved that the raps were real, and not caused by any
mental change in the witnesses. Section A referred the
paper to a committee to decide whether it should be
read. Mr. Crookes afterwards received this document
from Professor G. G. Stokes, Secretary to the Royal
Society, and President at the Exeter jneeting of the
British Association :—
“ August 7,1871.
“ REPORT ON ME. CROOKES’S PAPER.
“ The paper having been placed in my hands about ten
o’clock, and a decision wanted in writing by a quarter to
eleven, I have been obliged to be hasty.
“ The subject seems to be investigated in a philoso¬
phical spirit, and I do not see the explanation of the result
of the first class of experiments, while at the same time I am
not prepared to give in my adhesion without a thorough
sifting by more individuals than one. I don’t see much use
discussing the thing in the sections, crowded as we already .
are: but if a small number of persons in whom the public
would feel confidence choose to volunteer to act as members
of a committee for investigating the subject, I don’t see any
objection to appointing such committee. I have heard too
much of the tricks of Spiritualists to make me willing to
give my time to such a committee myself.
“ G. G. Stokes.”
A few words in tbe above document we have printed
in small capitals, in order to contrast them with a few
words also printed in small capitals, in tbe following
editorial note printed in The Spectator, of July 22nd,
1871:—
“ The Royal Society, they say, was quite open to commu¬
nications advocating the existence of a force in nature as yet
unknown, if such communications contained scientific evidence
adequate to establish its probability ; but that looking to the
inherent improbality of the case as stated by Mr. Crookes, and
the entire want of scientific precision in the evidence
adduced by him, the paper was not regarded as one deserving
the attention of the Royal Society.”
186
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 15, 1871.
As some of the Royal Society people had told Mr.
Crookes that the consideration of his paper had been
put off till November, he wrote to call the attention of
the editor of The Spectator to what he necessarily be¬
lieved to be an unfounded statement. The editor
replied in The Spectator of July 29th, 1871, as follows:—
“ Our note was not founded on any mere rumour. The words
we used contained an exact copy of the words conveyed to us
as used, not, as we .inadvertently stated by the committee, but
by one of the secretaries, Professor Stokes, who in the absence
of a quorum, exercised pro tempore the usual discretionary
authority in regard to papers offered.”
CON'CLTDOTG REMARKS.
We do not see that it is necessary to say much about
the statements of Messrs. Thomson, Tait, and Stokes,
since their own words expose the want of knowledge of
themselves and the British Association, to the many
who know that the physical phenomena actually take
place ; at the same time we regret to see the scientific
world made the laughing stock of such a large propor¬
tion of the general public. It does good, however, in
teaching the public the value of personal inquiry, and
the pitfalls into which they may be led by putting blind
trust in false teachers.
It may not be out of place to state who some of the
“partially informed” scientific men are, who have been
so abused by Professor Thomson and others in the fore¬
going speeches. One is Mr. A. R. Wallace, the
naturalist, a member of the Council of the British
Association. Another is Mr. W. Huggins, the astro¬
nomer, who was made LL.D. of Edinburgh University
just before the British Association began. Another is
Professor Challis, the astronomer, who also was made
LL.D. of Edinburgh University. A fourth is Lord
Lindsay, who honoured Professor Tait by supporting
him by his presence now and then on the platform of
Section A. A fifth is Mr. C. E. Yarley, the electrician,
the contributor of a paper read before Section A.
Some other readers of papers in that Section were either
Spiritualists, or believers in the phenomena, but as they
have not publicly owned it we have no right to give
their names. Another was the late Mr. Gregory,
E.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry in Edinburgh Uni¬
versity. Then again, there is Mr. William Crookes, who
acknowledges the reality of the phenomena, and who
was present at the Edinburgh meeting. As some of
these gentlemen were present at the Edinburgh meeting;
Professor Thomson’s abuse of them as partially informed
men must have come under their notice; in fact the
abuse was of such a character that the Edinburgh
Evening Courant thought it well to print a leading
article on Professor Thomson and his want of knowledge.
The mediums Professor Thomson slandered as gross
impostors, are nearly every one of them very estimable
people in private life; so far as we know there are only
three paid media in England, and well must they de¬
serve the little remuneration they receive, seeing with
what disagreeable people they are often brought in
contact.
The scientific men we have mentioned are in every
way as worthy of public confidence as Messrs. Thomson,
Stokes, and Tait. When Professor Huxley was invited
by the Dialectical Society to investigate Spiritualism,
he wrote that Mr. A. R. Wallace’s opinions on that sub¬
ject were entitled to be received with the greatest re¬
spect. Professor Tyndall said the same about Mr. |
Yarley in his letter to the Dialectical Society. But
Professor Thomson, of Glasgow, thinks differently. Sir
William Thomson, president of the British Association,
found himself during one of the Atlantic cable expedi¬
tions, to be nearly the only electrician on board who
was not a Spiritualist. Eor many years he worked with
Mr. Yarley to improve submarine telegraphy, and he
testified to a Royal Commission, the high opinion he
had of the scientific attainments of Mr. Yarley. But
Professor Thomson, of Glasgow, thinks differently. Sir
William Thomson, we believe, does not like Spiritualism,
but he is not likely to abuse those who are undertaking
the work of examining its phenomena.
Our list of the persons slandered by Messrs. Thom¬
son, Stokes, and Tait, need not end here. Nearly
all the crowned heads of Europe are Spiritualists,
and the Emperor of Russia, the King of Prussia, and
Napoleon III., make no secret of it that they know
the phenomena to be true. The opinions of the follow¬
ing persons who have investigated Spiritualism, and
are either Spiritualists or believers in the reality of the
phenomena, may be quoted as a very good “ set off ”
against the names of Messrs. Tait, Stokes, and Thomson,
who have not investigated:—
Archbishop Whately; W. M. Thackeray; Professor De
Morgan ; Professor Wm. Gregory, of Edinbro’ ; the Poet
Laureate and his brother; the poets Longfellow, Mrs.
Browning, and Gerald Massey ; William and Mary Howitt;
Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall; Catherine Crowe ; Lord Lytton;
Bobert Chambers ; Rev. J. G. Wood, the eminent writer on
natural history; Lord Lindsay; Lord Dunraven ; Lord Adair;
Dr. Gully, of Malvern; Dr. J. J. Garth Wilkinson ; Hon. Robt.
Dale Owen ; the late painters Blake and Flaxman ; Hiram
Powers, the sculptor ; A. R. Wallace ; Dr. Ashbumer ; Baron
Reichenbach ; Miss Martineau ; Professor Hare ; Dr. Elliot-
son ; ■ C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.G.S.; Signor Damiani; Professor
Gunning, the geologist of Boston ; William Crookes, F.R.S.,
editor of the Chemical News; the. late Sir Charles Napier;
Kossuth; Garibaldi; Mazzini; Victor Hugo; Guizot; Jules
Favre; Lord Lyndhurst; the late Rev. Isaac Taylor ; Rev
Dr. Jabez Burns; Dr. Campbell; A. Boutlerow, Professor of
Chemistry in the University of St. Petersburgh; Captain
Burton, the traveller; Spencer T. Hall; Nassau W. Senior;
Rev. J. Page Hopps ; Louis Napoleon; the Emperor and
Grand Dukes of Russia; President Lincoln ; Judge Edmonds;
Judge Lawrence ; William Lloyd Garrison ; Walt Whitman,
and Mr. John Bright, M.P.
Mr. E. B. Tylor, in his lecture to the British Asso¬
ciation, made some allusions to Spiritualism, which were
unheard because he suffered from such a severe cold.
At the dinner of the “ Lions ” club also, a comic speech
was made about spring balance experiments with
psychic force.
Erom the treatment he has received at the hands of
some of the persons connected with the British Asso¬
ciation and the Royal Society, it will be seen what
disagreeable work Mr. Crookes is doing in attempting
to impart to those representative bodies some of the
most elementary of the physical truths of Spiritualism.
When it is also remembered what good evidence he has
published as to the reality of the physical phenomena,
and the great influence his testimony has had upon the
public at large, we think that he well merits warm and
strong support from Spiritualists as a body. At the
same time, we do not wish erroneous ideas as to
scientific men, to gain ground among Spiritualists in
consequence of the doings of two or three exceptional
individuals, whose acts are recorded in this article. As
a whole, the scientific world is not bigoted, and con¬
tains many men sufficiently intelligent and courageous
to make a philosophical and impartial investigation of
the claims of Spiritualism. This they will do for their
own good, and not for ours, for as their knowledge of
the subject is less than that possessed by Spiritualists,
and as they cannot explain the simplest of the pheno¬
mena, we are not inclined to recognise them as
authorities. Professor Stokes speaks as if the judgment
of his committee would settle “ the thing,” whereas
“ the thing,” being founded on the facts of nature, is
plenty strong enough to overturn Professor Stokes, the
Royal Society, and the British Association. It is only
a question of time, and in the meanwhile the sayings
and doings of the authorities without knowledge, who
are leading their followers astray, are very interesting
subjects of study to philosophical minds. Spiritualism
has its hold almost entirely in the family circle, by the
home fireside, and scientific men gain nothing in repu¬
tation by saying that the facts we see constantly in our
own homes do not occur.
FAREWELL CONVERSAZIONE IN HONOUR OF MRS.
EMMA HARDINGE.
The following report was published in the second
edition of the last number of The Spiritualist:—
The 27th of July, 1871, will long be remembered by
Spiritualists as the day when one of the most important meet¬
ings in connection with the cause was held, for Mrs.
Hardinge, who has, for the past eight months, laboured in
England, bade a public farewell to her friends previous to her
return to her adopted country. It is now approaching the end
of the second decade since Mrs. Hardinge experienced a
“ rather piously-inclined young English girl’s horror ” at the
proceedings in what she then considered “ so. blasphemous a
place as a spirit circle,” when she attended her first seance in
Mr. J. B. Conklin’s rooms in New York, and from that year
till the present she has devoted abilities of an unusually
high order to the spread of the knowledge of the truths re¬
vealed by modern Spiritualism. In all parts of the United
States, and in all parts of this land, she has performed,
with unflagging energy, the task which she set before
herself, of convincing the sceptic, arousing Spiritualists
to a perception of the grandeur of the new revelation, and of
uniting together in bonds of amity and a common faith the
thousands who on both sides of the Atlantic have realised the
existence of a telegraphy between the material and the
spiritual worlds. In her work on “ Modern American Spiritual¬
ism,” she has traced the rapid growth of belief in communion
with spirits in a purely inductive method, accumulating well
attested facts in more overwhelming numbers than most
doctrines or scientific rules can advance for their support.
Her wondrous power of extemporaneous speaking has pro¬
bably never been surpassed by any individual, and her lectures
during her v^sit to England have stimulated enquiry in many
quarters where previously the name “ Spiritualist ” was never
mentioned without a derisive smile. It was, therefore, to be
expected that such a labourer in the cause of Spiritualism
would not be allowed to leave this country without some
special token of the esteem and admiration with which
thousands have learnt to regard her. The committee ap¬
pointed to consider the best means of evidencing these feelings
decided on holding a conversazione, and the success of the
meeting proved the wisdom of their decision. St. George’s
Hall, Langham-place, was selected for the gathering, and
Mr. Gerald Massey, occupied the chair. In front of the
platform a table was placed, on which were numerous speci¬
mens of Mrs. Hardinge’s works; and suspended from dif¬
ferent parts of the hall in front of the audience were a consi¬
derable number of spirit drawings, spirit photographs, spirit
writings, and conspicuously two wreaths of flowers, which had
been brought to Mrs. Berry at a circle. Three drawings by
Mr. Rippon were of especial excellence, one representing a
group of flowers; another, two vases filled with flowers, around
which butterflies and insects were fluttering ; and the third,
the “Last Supper.” Among the other specimens were a photo¬
graph of a drawing under the influence of Salvator Rosa, repre¬
senting the face of Christ; a portrait of a spirit, in crayon, by
Mrs. Peebles, nearly life size ; and a landscape oil-painting by
D. Duguid, done in a trance. The universal extension of the
principles of Spiritualism was illustrated by copies of Spiritualist
newspapers and journals from America, Australia, Germany,
France, Spain, Italy, &c., and in connection with the visit of
Elder Evans, of the Shaker community. The Shaher, a news¬
paper supporting the views held by that body, was placed
among the others. In addition to the farewell address, (which
was beautifully illuminated), a purse containing 130 guineas
was presented to the gifted advocate, as a slight mark of the
appreciation in which her self-denying labours are held.
The hall was well filled, and members of several religious
denominations were present to show that though on some
matters they differed from the views which Mrs. Hardinge is
in the habit of explaining and enforcing, they yet admire
her genius, and esteem her for her untiring zeal in the cause
of Spiritualism.
The addresses were pleasantly interspersed with songs
which several ladies kindly sang.
At the opening of the meeting a letter was read from Mr.
0. F. Varley, in which he tendered his earnest thanks to Mrs.
Hardinge “ for her persistent and intelligent devotion to the
cause of human progress.”
The Chairman expressed the gratification he felt in being
present, and seeing the present organisation among Spirit¬
ualists.
“Birdie’s Spirit-Song ’’ was then sung by Mrs. Hicks, with
chorus.
Mr. Peebles, after expressing the great pleasure with
which he attended the meeting, said, alluding to the spread of
Spiritualism in America, that Judge Edmonds, basing his
conclusions upon an extensive correspondence, upon the
assurance of clergymen, upon personal experience, and upon
carefully collected statistics furnished by the Roman Catholic
clergy, estimated the number of Spiritualists in America as
high as eleven millions, and the enemies of the movement had
never denied or questioned the general soundness of the state¬
ment. The estimate was even corroborated by the indirect
testimony of the secular and the religious journals. From
Andrew Jackson Davis, Mr. Peebles brought “ greetings fresh
from the heart ” to English Spiritualists, and various other
eminent American Spiritualists had desired to express through
him the warm sympathy with which they regarded their
brethren in this land.
Miss Cooper sang “ The Serenade,” by Gounod, accom¬
panied on the harmonium by Madame de Sievez. The song
was sung so sweetly as to evoke a unanimous encore.
Mr. N. F. Daw, read the following address from the
Spiritualists of England to Mrs. Hardinge-Britten :—
“ Beloved and esteemed friend, as you are about to return
to the land of your adoption after eight months sojourn
amongst us, we cannot allow the event to transpire without
this formal acknowledgment of the great pleasure and profit
your visit has afforded us personally, and the unspeakable ad¬
vantages the cause of Spiritualism has reaped from your able
advocacy. The Sunday services conducted by you have
elevated Spiritualism into a national and scientific expression
of the religious principle in man. Without the accessories of
fashionable worship you have taught us that all the require¬
ments of man’s religious nature, intellectual, affectional, and
aspirational, may be supplied from the never-failing and eternal
source of spiritual life and being, —God witl\ us. You have
shewn that the religion of the Divine humanity, while definite
and certain as any problem in science, is also capable
of unlimited expansion as the mind of man developes;
and while it presents a basis for law and order in
the administration of Spiritualism, its tendency is not
to fossilise the thoughts of Spiritualists witn a creedal
and fixed form of expression. Aided by the printing
press, your orations have been uttered to thousands
weekly, and your ministrations have had a general effect on
the public mind. The press has been influenced thereby to
respect the intellectual purposes of this movement; and in
those important centres of population you have visited, the
admiration and judgment of thousands have been excited in
favour of progressive principles. You have visited us in our
homes, and your cheerful, sympathetic, and kindly manner
has been to us an imperishable memory of the beautiful and
good in human life. We have found you not only highly
gifted with intellectual endowments and spiritual inspiration,
but what is above and beyond all, we have realised that you
are a true woman, living out in your intercourse with the
world the sublime principles enunciated by your voice. We
deeply regret that we have to part with you for a time. It
has been the warmly cherished desire of many hearts that you
would make this country your dwelling-place, and promote
the cause of progress in a manner for which you are so fitted,
and which we so much require. We live in the full assur¬
ance that you will return to us again at no distant day
to occupy a field which your recent labours will have some¬
what prepared for you. With you go, as a living presence, our
warmest sympathies and heartfelt affections, and though
thousands of miles may intervene between us, yet our spirits
will as one meet in the grand aspiration which unites all souls
to the Universal Father and Source of Being. We fervently
pray that you may be carried in safety with those you love to
those you love across the wide ocean : that blessings may
follow you in all your wanderings in the Far West, and
that when we have the pleasure of meeting you again your
being will be further enriched by the fruits of a good and
useful life, and the constant reception of angel teachings.
Till then, farewell.—Signed J. Burns, Chairman of the Com¬
mittee. (Applause.) ”
Mr. Coleman seconded the address. He said he believed
he had been selected to fulfil this office because he was iden¬
tified with Mrs. Hardinge’s earliest movement in this country.
He had the honour to preside at the first meeting of English¬
men and women whom she addressed in London, and had ever
since had the honour of her friendship.
Mrs. Hardinge then came forward and was received with
loud and hearty applause. She said—In parting from you I
attempt no formal expressions of thankfulness, no stereotyped
phrases of acceptance of these noble and thrilling words ; I
only purpose to review some of the footprints we have trod
together, to go over the ground again where you and I have
toiled to discover the meaning of the mighty movement of
which at present we are little more than the subjects, but which
seems to me to have put a torch in each one’s hand, a stan¬
dard committed to each one’s care, marshalling us as a mighty
army by the unseen generalship of the mighty beings that have
led us thus far with a power unknown to man, unprecedented
in history, baffling all obstacles, putting down all attempts to
hinder our progress, and carrying us forward triumphantly
to the germ of a mighty spiritual organisation. What has
Spiritualism done for us ? I know there are many who reite¬
rate that it has taught no new thing, uttered no strange or
unknown tidings; that the belief in immortality, the worship of
God, and acceptance of the principles of compensation and
retribution for right and wrong, have all formed essential por¬
tions of human belief in ages past, and that all who acknow¬
ledge the teachings of Christianity, subscribe to such
doctrines. Whilst these words are perpetually reiterating in
my ear, I am forcibly reminded of the time when, four hun¬
dred years ago, a man of faith believed that there was a terra
incognita beyond the wide wastes of ocean. Far away across
August 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
187
those pathless realms which his compeers called the Ultima
Thule, Columbus, by the eye of faith, perceived a new world.
He could not communicate the faith to others ; he could not
prove or demonstrate its foundation in itself, until the hour
when, with God for his captain, inspiration for his pilot, and
the weal and destiny of unborn millions for his freight, he
breasted the wide waves of ocean, planted his foot upon the new
world, and brought back in evidence of his conquest of this terra
incognita the inhabitants thereof. Then it was that the world
knew and then it was that Columbus exchanged knowledge for
faith. We have found a Columbus ; we have recognised in
the unknown and hitherto viewless regions of the spirit-world,
the commander, the captain, the crew, who have breasted the
waves of death, planted their feet upon the unknown shores
beyond, and returned with hosts of the immortals to speak to
us through the stammering tones of the little raps, and make
our faith become knowledge, and demonstrate that which man
has believed for eighteen centuries to be a solemn living truth.
(Applause.) Next, we have solved all the problems of spiritual i
existence, we have answered toourselvesfor ever the question,
If a man die, shall he live again ? We have learned what
death has done to us ; it has simply broken open the casket;
it has rent the veil of mystery in twain, and discovered the
living angels sitting within what we have hitherto deemed
the corrupting tomb of death. Spiritualism has proved a
mighty reform and a prophecy of a still mightier one in the
realm of that science which has ignored the Spiritualist,
because it is baffled by Spiritualism. Just as much
as Spiritualists have discovered in the realm of spiritual
science, is material science lacking in. Every one of
the phenomena which manifest the presence of the spirit is a
new revelation in science. I am perpetually questioned,
“ What is the connection between the sublime ideality that
grows out of these spiritual teachings and these insignificant
sounds, these contemptible movements of gyrating bodies—
what connection have these with this sublimity and ideality,
this glorious revelation of new and unknown lands ? ” Can
they not see that these are the flutterings of the spiritual
lightning on the telegraphic wires? Do not they perceive
that as these messages pass across the wires a fresh revelation
in science is proclaimed ? A hidden people are in our midst;
an unknown world has landed its freight of pilgrims on our
shores ; our city streets are thick with them, our chambers are
full of them, the very stones are prating of their whereabouts;
in the silence of the night, in the busy homes of the city, in the
midst of every-day life, our secret thoughts, our constant
practices are scrutinised by this cloud of witnesses that
fills this very place, puts aside even the thick ponderable walls
that surround us, and opens up before • us the vast and
illimitable fields of spiritual existence. (Applause.) We have
been asked, “ What is the use of it ? ” We have been taxed
home again and again to show some new thing that these
spirits have proclaimed. -Everything that they do is new,
every revelation that they make is a marvel, every sign and
token that they present is an indication of a getm seed planted
in our midst, and eventually promising to blossom in a glorious
and stupendous revelation of new forces within ourselves, new
forces that this world of spiritual power is exerting upon us.
Not a new force, not one force, not an unknown or discon¬
nected force fi-om intelligence, but a force teeming with intel¬
ligence, and always manifesting special identity, ever speaking
of a personality, no matter whether it be one that we have
honoured in time past, or whether it be one of the scum of the
earth, he is wiser, mightier, more scientific than all the
scientific bodies of this great country put together ; he can
perform phenomena which they cannot explain. Thus it
is that Spiritualism has brought us a scientific reform.
Spiritualism has brought us a new light on those phases of
character which we have hitherto deemed lost in the in¬
scrutable mystery of original sin. When we perceive that the
life beyond is but a continuation of the life present, that there
is no interruption, no inharmony in that mighty chain of being
that lifts up the poor, the friendless, the criminal, the ignorant
as well as the saint and the sinner, to a world of progress
beyond, with what a broad mantle of charity does this
Spiritualism throw over the past! (Applause.) We no
longer gaze upon the dark brow of the begrimed man of sin,
we no longer look down upon these children of the people as
they pass us in the midst of the mire and filth both of poverty
and pauperism, of disgrace and reprobation, but we look
through the black crust and perceive there the germ of the
mightiest angel that ever shone in the radiance of eternity.
(Applause.) Folded up within the chrysalitic form or every
material organism, we look upon the germ of all powers, all
possibilities; and as we gaze down these corridors of eternity,
we see these poor begrimed pilgrims whom we have
spurned and scorned rising to the triumphant heights
of progress, under the brighter, more healthful, more
humane, and therefore more divine institutions of mercy,
of reform instead of punishment, of teaching instead of
dungeon bolts and bars. I do claim, therefore, that
Spiritualism in this respect is a grand moral reform.
It is something more—it is an individual reform. It speaks
to the individual conscience every moment of our lives; it
explores the secret depths of our own hearts; it sets up
a tribunal within our breasts from which we cannot
escape. How much it has been to me at least a religious
reform many of you have borne witness. Many of you have
heard my song of joy, my jubilant expression of gratitude
to my Creator that I have found and comprehended the mean¬
ing of the sublime sentence, “ God is a spirit.” As I have
listened to the revelations of the spirits, proclaiming the con¬
servation of all force, of genius, of talent, of energy, even of
passion, emotion, crime, all and everything that constitutes
the real man, I have learned to comprehend the grand man of
creation. As I have understood what it is to be a spirit,
as I have begun to comprehend something of the nature,
the immensity, the omniscience, the omnipotence of Him
whom we have so vaguely worshipped as God, I know
not who differs with me, I ask not, I care not; it is enough for
me and for those who feel with me, that from these insignifi¬
cant manifestations as the world calls them, step by step, I
have traced up the actuality and the positivism of spiritual
existence. This is the kind of religious reform that Spirit¬
ualism has been to me. It takes no shape or creedal
form; narrows itself to no dogma. It cannot limit itself
to a house ; it cannot enter within the gates of any dwell¬
ing made by the hands of man. Broad as eternity, wide
as- infinity, vast as the universe whose fragments in
parts I contemplate is this God whom I now know, whom I
now comprehend because I comprehend what is a spirit. If I
fail in the reverence which seems to many of you to be due to the
idea of the God of sects, churches, and denominations, bear
with me—my God is so much larger than these, so much wider,
grander, and vaster than all the petty conceptions jotted
down by the pen of man that I cannot bring my thoughts to
worship before the image that man has setup. (Loud applause.)
There is but one more point in my religious faith, in that Spirit¬
ualism that has been to me of all reforms the grandest, that I may
press upon you now in partings—it is the realization of the
sublime justice, the grand and immtitable law of compensation
and retribution which is at once our teacher and our judge.
It is for this that I love and honour Spiritualism, that I pin
my faith on it as the hope of the world. It is for this that,
when I clasp hands with reformers in every direction, when I
behold them toiling to bless and benefit humanity, I thank God
that there is one broad, grand, magnificent reform that encloses
them all. You and I have spoken spirit to spirit; we shall
each look face to face upon the glory beyond the veil, and
many of us like myself have realized the worth of that which
we are striving for. It is therefore to Spiritualism, and at the
feet of Spiritualism, that I do lay these most welcome and most
deeply venerated tokens of your kindness and sympathy. And
now we part; and in these words there is a ring of sadness to
any but the Spiritualist. Those who have looked upon the
I perpetual phantasmagoria of the atoms amongst which we
live, know that passing away is the genius of all material
things. The mightiest works of art are passing away; the
most glorious efforts that humanity has ever made fade and
become dim, and at last the corrupting hand of time obliterates
them. The veil of antiquity may wreath them round with
the moss and the ivy, and they may look beautiful in ruin,
and the crumbling touch of decay may retint their dying
forms with a beauty fairer than they ever possessed before;
but still they are passing away. You and I have realized from
the cradle to the present hour, that all our joys, all our best
and fairest hopes have passed away. The spell is on them,
the evening time must come. Some of us have beheld the
very shrines in which we have laid up our hearts’ best
memories pass away, and as they have faded out of sight we have
realized that upon every fragment of matter, even upon the
glorious stars, even upon the mighty and majestic sun himself,
upon all that army of God marshalled up this night in such
glory, stretching away to the furthest realms of eternity, even
upon those mighty and majestic suns, parents of new-born
worlds, centres of vast and illimitable systems, the doom
is written—passing away. There are three things that
can never pass: the strength, the power, the might, and
majesty of Him that sustains us, whom we worship as
God; the deathless unquenchable fragments of His being
that we know, as His creatures in their spiritual existence;
and last, not least, that deep undying love which is the
foundation of His kingdom. (Loud applause.) These things
can never perish. You and I shall live for ever, and
wheresoever we live, in whatsoever spheres of eternity our
pilgrim feet may sojourn, the undying spirit of affection can
never perish, the love that has hound heart to heart can never
die. I cast around you in the name of the dear angels that
chain of spiritual love, every link of which is in one or other
of your hands, and which ye have but to touch to awaken an
answering chord within my heart. And if our mortal eyes
should never exchange glances more, if the soul that looks
through them should wait until we meet beyond the beautiful
river; why if we love, if we cherish kindness for one another,
if we have taken hold of those links of affection in that bright
and deathless chain which anchors round the heart of God,
you and I and all of us shall yet meet again in the morning.
(Loud applause.)
Mrs. Hicks and the choir then sang “ The Keel Bow.”
The Chairman—It is reported that when the devil first
read the ten commandments he remarked, “Well, they are a
rum lot!” And such will be the exclamation of numbers of
people when they hear of the doings of Spiritualism. Such
has been the exclamation of many who have, as they believe,
had dealings with the spirits themselves. Things are said and
done quite unbefitting our notion of the Spiritual dignities,
and whatever the amount of truth there may be on our side,
I feel pretty sure there is a good deal of imposture on
the other. And why not ? A large number of impostors
have left our world to go somewhere ; and perhaps they
still find us more easily imposed upon than their new
acquaintances. But the question whether spirits or unseen
intelligences do communicate with us is one of facts not
to be in the least invalidated by the nature of the response.
There are many kinds of mediums ; and, broadly speaking,
there are two kinds of mediumship—the abnormal and the
normal. There have always been and are now born into this
life persons of a peculiar organisation, who become the un¬
conscious mediums of spiritual manifestation. They can
be easily put into the magnetic trance by other people, and it
looks as if they could be as easily entranced by the spirits on
the other side. Anyway, they are so constituted that spirits
can take possession of their physical organism, make use of
their nervous system, speak with their tongues, and become,
for the time being, the conscious soul of their bodies. This, I
repeat, seems to depend on the physical constitution. They
are, as we say, “ born so.” I myself have had the most posi¬
tive and convincing proof that such organisations do exist,
and can be taken absolute possession of by other intelligences
higher or lower, for I lived face to face with the fact for fifteen
years, and did a bit of work by the help of it which I hold
would not have been done in any other way. But there are
other mediums which I call normal mediums because they
are acted on by spirits, without any suspension of, or visible
interference with known laws. And we are all more or less
mediums of this kind, although we may not know it. The
Creator is for evermore acting by mediumship, and carries on
the work of all His worlds by means of the varied forms of
life and mental consciousness that receive and transmit His
influence. In this kind of mediumship the spirits work on
rapport with us and do not need our ordinary faculties to be
entranced. They quicken the life of the usual faculties, and as
we say inspire us. Theyhavepowertoguardus,warn us,comfort
us, kindle our thought, warm our feelings, and add a precious
seeing to our Spiritual vision. And all this is done in the
most natural way. Now the great value of the abnormal
mediumship lies for me, not in its startling interferences
with recognised physical laws, rapping of tables, playing
of music, or floating of bodies, but in the light it
throws on that normal mediumship which is the common
inheritance. I believe that this abnormal mediumship
is non-natural and will be unnatural to the end. It may
be a necessity, a stage of progress. It is a rift through which
strange light of revelation flashes, and, but for those gleams
we could not see as at present. We can study it as physicians
do disease, with the view of reaching higher laws of health.
But I know of the brain sapped and racked, the heart arrested
or quickenedin its movement, the health overthrown. I am not
aware that the idea has ever been broached,but I think it would
bear arguing that St. Paul’s mysterious “ thorn in the flesh,”
which has caused the commentators so much perplexity, had
to do with abnormal mediunaship and was really the tendency
he had to fall into the trance condition. There can be no
question but that he was struck down in trance when his con¬
version occurred; no question that the abnormal condition
was so common to him that he could not remember whether
certain things took place when he was in the body or out of
the body. Moreover it was an infirmity that he gloried in.
And he makes use of these remarkable words—“And lest I
should be exalted above measure through the abundance of
the revelations,’’ evidently received in the trance, “ there was
given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to
buffet me.” “ For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that
it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace
is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weak¬
ness.” I venture to say that can never be interpreted so
satisfactorily as by the Spiritualist who knows how active the
messengers of Satan are in troubling mediums to-day. Perhaps
it is necessary that these should suffer as they do, on account
of the blindness and unbelief of men. Every cause demands
its victims and will have its martyrs. It is only through the
abnormal medium apparently that we can obtain such physical
phenomena as will arrest the attention of the most unspiritual
and sometimes upset the conceit of the most scientific.
Whether it be worth while trying to convince our men of
science that there is a force they can never fathom is another
matter. They don’t want to recognise it or the world to
believe in it. They appear unable to apprehend the presence
of Force, except in the domain where it ceases to be Spiritual,
because it has been transmuted, as Will-force is transmuted
into Muscular force, unable to see that all force is Spiritual
in its origin. The truth is that many of them cannot believe
in mind without the visible physical basis. The medium is
present when the phenomena occur. No other mind is visibly
embodied, therefore the mind present can only belong to the
medium. You cannot cross the sea upon dry land, and that is
what they want to do. You cannot walk into the other
world on the same pair of physical legs as have served
you in this. That is what they insist upon doing, or
else they wont go at all; and they never will. But to
return to the abnormal mediums. These are the first
who are seized on and made use of to arrest the attention
of the world. But the ultimate object of this human suffering,
and all these curious and seemingly absurd phenomena that
take place, is not to lift tables or bodies, or make fools or
wise men gape with their hair standing on end. It is to lift
up the eyelids of the mind and elevate the soul to a percep¬
tion of the fact that there is a spirit-world about us, close
to us, in communion with us, and the value of that truth
is not to be limited by the nature of the demonstration.
Again, the mediumship which depends on physical consti¬
tution must, I think, of necessity be a limiting condition on
the other side, and so determine the range of communication.
A great living poet, who is a personal friend of mine, had a
wife who was a Spiritualist. She had passed away when I
first met him, and talking over these things with him one day,
I asked if he had never heard her rap near him. He said No,
and of course that was quite enough to convince him that
spirits do not rap at all. Nevertheless, he was wrong. It is
possible that the conditions for audible communication were
wanting on both sides. Possibly she could not have rapped in
his presence. The husband was a great sceptic; if the sounds
had been produced, he would have explained them in a hun¬
dred natural ways, rather than have believed they indicated
her presence. The wife was, I doubt not, far away from the
region of physical communication, for she was one of the
purest, loftiest spirits whilst here, one of the rarest that ever
wore flesh. But for all that, I never doubted of her nearness
to him, spirit to spirit, her affection for him nestling in his
heart of hearts, life of his life, or of her presence and
power to help him when he was writing his next poem.
She could nor, take possession of his brain and work on the
nerve-system like the telegraph operator using his machine
and wires, but her mind would work with his mind in normal
mediumship, and the supernatural would thus become perfectly
natural. And that this is the right and. ultimate way of
working is illustrated, if not proved, by the fact that where
the writing is done directly by some spirit in actual possession
it is seldom of any value. There is no poetry written in the
abnormal condition that would bear any comparison with that
which is written normally. I can write a hundred times
better poetry myself than they could ever get expressed
directly through me, for they do now and then give my hand
a jog and the pen a push. Both the poetry and the spirit-
drawings that I have seen may have pleasures and glimpses
of something far away and fine ; a glory ungraspable, but they
do not talk the language of this life—rather, they make
signs in a dumb show from another world. The poetry
needs translating for us, and the picture wants interpreting.
To give us anything additional, anything divinely creative and
of human use, it appears to me that the thought must be
cerebrated through the natural brain, because it has to reach
the spirits of others by passing back again through their
natural brain. And so the higher spirits work with us, on us,
and through us, unheard, unseen, and bring their force to bear
most perfectly when we are most unconscious of their pre¬
sence. In this way I take it that Shakespeare was the greatest
normal medium that ever wrote ! I said we did not need
to pass into a trance to become mediums of this kind. But
there is a sort of trance necessary. It is that our sense cf
self, our consciousness of self, our selfishness of every form be
laid in trance before our angel-helpers and elders in immor¬
tality can carry on their divine agency most freely and fully,
and aid us to their utmost possible ability. And here again, 1
doubt not that Shakespeare was so great, so unparalleled a
natural medium, because he was the least self-conscious of
poets that ever lived. Well, then, we are all subject to this
influence, ever acted upon more or less by these spiritual
beings who sustain, guide, comfort, inspire us, though hidden
from most of us by the veil of visible things in which we
are also spirits, although more finited in our humanity.
Mr. Darwin has shown by how exquisite a device the orchids
are fertilized by means of insects, who, while in search of
honey, deposit the flower-pollen. This plan we believe to be
carried out by the Creator on a vastly higher plane and larger
range in the fertilization of the human mind by means of
spirit-visitants, who seek to gather honey for him, from his
human flowers on earth, afad whilst doing so, impregnate them
with his heavenly influences. In this way, by spirit agencies,
the angels of His presence, as the Bible has it, does God
descend upon the soul like showers that water the earth, and
bring forth the flowers, or as dew upon the mown grass that
draws forth a sweet savour ; and it is our work here to pass
on these heavenly influences to others whenever, and
wherever, and howsoever they touch the soul, or illuminate
the mind, or inspire the heart in any, or in all of us.
The Bevelations made by Spiritualism must tend to aid the
human mind in realizing God as a universal presence, and the
universal source of life—not only a First Cause, but the ever¬
present and ever-operant cause. The scientific and orthodox
mind has represented the Creator as a sort of First Cause that
188
THE S PIK1TUALIST.
August 15, 1871.
set things going, gave the pendulum of Time a tilt or the first
impulse at the other end of the chain of being, and all the
rest following in natural sequence like the series of appulsions
given by the buffers of a train of carriages, each striking the
other from beginning to end of the train. That is not an un¬
fair image to represent their idea of the operation of natural
laws. But that is a totally inadequate representation of Our
First ' Cause, who is always causing, always present,
Who makes, the succession as He goes. He does not
operate only in that visible sequence to which they
would limit His workings who are so limited themselves.
Again the scientific and religious world appear to have
hitherto divided the matter thus. The one shuts God up
altogether out of its domain, and places it under the govern¬
ment of Law. This becomes the so-called region of the natural,
which they can grasp and deal with satisfactorily so long as
God is not there. Then the other demands an act of faith to
enable us to believe in God in His own proper domain, which
they look on as the supernatural. Thus you can only
touch the Spiritual by an act of faith, and the Spiritual can
only reach you by an act of miracle. With the Spiritualist
these two blend, interchange, are united in one. He does not
look on the supernatural as a world apart from the natural.
He has evidence to show that they work together for a common
end. He looks upon the so-called supernatural as the unseen
or occult part of nature in which that which is seen has its
rootage and draws its sustenance. The unseen is for ever
working through the seen into visible being, and the visible
is for ever tending toward and growing into new forms of
existence that are to most of us unseen. You cannot close
this world against the other, nor shut the Creator out of any
bridal-chamber of reproductiveness, nor prevent your old
friends on the other side coming back to you with any
boundary lines you may draw betwixt supernatural and natural.
Thus you see the Spiritualist has been feeling for and thinks
he has grasped that link in the chain of continuity which the
physicists of our time are so earnestly in search of on the
material side. I have no doubt there is such a oneness and
continuity as they dream of and are Lying to demonstrate.
The mirror of matter everywhere gleams with the dim
image of it; but to think of grasping it there by the hand
of physical science alone, is as though you might ex¬
pect to reach the moon by plunging into the water after
the reflex image of it. They are following a reflection.
But even that reflex image is the shadow of God, and they
are so far right, and cannot do better than follow it into
the light. That light shines on the spiritual side of things.
A great deal of religious faith has been of the kind illustrated
by the old Scotch woman who, when asked how she felt whilst
her horse was running away with her, said she “ put her trust
in Providence till the britchin’ broke, and then she gave up.”
Now this later revelation of Spiritualism makes its first appeal
to belief by demonstrating the fact of continued existence in
another life. That gives us a fine, fresh start; repeats for us
the proofs, indefinitely multiplied, said to have been given in
miracles 1800 years ago, and believed in generally up to the
point at which the “ britchin’ ” breaks. It gives not only
faith, but positive assurance. What is the upshot of all the
spiritual teaching hitherto 1 Is it such a sense of the other
life that the selfish concerns of this are dwarfed and rebuked
in its majestic presence ? Why, I find the mass of so-called
religious people don’t want to believe in the spirit world save
in the abstract, or otherwise than as an article of their creed.
They accept a sort of belief in it, on authority—a grim
necessity ; it’s best to believe, in case it does exist after all;
but they give the lie to that belief in their lives, and in
presence of such facts as we place before them. Our
orthodox Spiritual teachers have arrested and made per¬
manent the passing figure and permitted the eternal essence
of the meaning to escape. They have deified the symbol on
earth instead of the God in Heaven. They have taken hold
of Christ by the dead hand, and lost sight of the living Lord.
They have come between us and the pure white light of God’s
love—shut out God from his own house with pictures painted
on the window panes. They have broken and discoloured that
light from heaven in the distorting prism of their own person¬
ality. Not long since I heard a Ritualist declare that the
shortest and surest way of getting at God was to eat him when
you had secured His presence, for this occasion only, in a con¬
secrated wafer. There was a physical fact which you could
lay hold of whatever the Spiritual uncertainty might be.
They have assumed that God never had but one Son, and all
the rest of us whom Christ taught to" pray to “ Our Father ”
are only poor bastards of the devil. Hitherto, so it seems to
me, we have only had the merest glimpse of that which is
possible. Even the Christian revelation remains to be re¬
vealed in its most spiritual aspect. So little has the world
realized the main truth of Christ’s mission, which was to
hook-and-eye the two worlds together. How seldom has the
spiritual life, where it has flowered at all, been more than a
graft from without instead of a root and branch, life of the
life, blossoming straight out of the Eternal. I cannot help
laughing to myself at times as I think of what this much-
maligned and despised Spiritualism is about to accomplish.
How little they dream of the New Dawn that is coming
up the sky. Nay, it is already flaming in at the win¬
dows, and trying to look in the shut eyes of the sleepers,
which are fast closed to the glory shining on their faces.
If they could but comprehend what Spiritualism is going to
do for real faith instead of shouting for the fire-engines to
come and put out this new dawn, as they will do the mo¬
ment they wake, they would embrace us and aid us all they
could. For see, just when scientific research is getting too
much for the old creeds ; when we have discovered the secret
of life in protoplasm, and are on the point of finding the me¬
chanical equivalent of consciousness, just when we have dis¬
covered that force comes from the visible side of phenomena,
and thought is only molecular motion, and mind a property
possessed by matter; just when the scientific report is that the
deeper we dive the farther off recedes the supposed heart-beat
of the eternal life; and to make up to humanity for the loss of
our father in heaven, we have at length, possibly at full-
length, found our long-lost grandfather of earth in the fields
or forests, or floods of the fore-world—in breaks this revelation
from the unknown, and as they assumed, unknowable. Just
when we had proved that miracles could not be, and
therefore never had been, in breaks the miraculous once
more; we have one Hume answered by the other, and
the impossibility of a thing does not prevent its happening.
“Thou canst not show the dead are dead,” says the modern
poet, in reply to the doubt of these days, and that assurance
has been clutched at as a staff of comfort, to support
the decrepitude of belief. But we can show that the
dead are not dead. We have had them coming to us in
our own homes and private experience, and proving their
presence With us by infallible signs of recognition. Let
these facts once take possession of the national mind, the
result will be incalculable. As a people we are sceptical of
theory, but we wed our fact for life or death. We make up
in sureness of grip for our slowness of movement, and do not
easily let go what we have once laid hold of. God Himself
must find it difficult to get some truths into us, but once in
the devil can t get them out again. We are not easily
illuminated, not soon set on fire. But we burn well when
once kindled, whether judged by the spiritual fervour shown
in life, or by the white faces of the martyrs out-flashing the
flames as they have smiled up to the cloud of witnesses around
them at the scene of their transfiguration in death. And
this fact of Spiritualism will yet be grasped as with a death¬
bed clutch of the delivering hand that reaches down to lift
us into new life. Meanwhile, all hail and all honour to those
who bear the banner in the front of the battle. All hail
and all honour, especially to her who is our guest of the
night, and who has so chivalrously devoted herself to the
service of others in fulfilment of the Father’s bidding.
It was Saul, as we know, who went forth on a very
lowly errand, to look after his father’s asses. And there
will be newspaper cynics present to suggest that our friend’s
mission has been similar, and that we have a goodly gather¬
ing of such here to-night. But let them sneer ! Saul was
doing his father’s bidding, and he found a kingdom. And
if our friend has not found her kingdom, she will have helped
to found one—the kingdom of freer thought, and larger life,
and clearer light, and sweeter charities, and nobler love.
“Her labour will have helped, to bring to birth
The Kingdom as it is in heaven on earth.”
(Loud applause.)
A purse containing one hundred and thirty guineas was
then presented to Mrs. Hardinge by Mr. N. F. Daw.
Mrs. Haedinge, in acknowledging the gift, said—The last
token that you have rendered me this night, the liberality, the
kindness, the wholly unlooked for worldly compensation that
you have offered for such service as I have had to perform,-3
service that has paid itself as it has gone on,—utterly deprives
me of all power to say aught but the simple words, “From my
heart I thank you.” (Loud applause.)
By special request Mrs. Haedinge then recited “ Over
There,” and afterwards “ The Spiritualists’ Parting Song,”
was sung in a touching manner by Mrs. Hicks.
A vote of thanks to the Chairman, proposed by Signor
Damiani, was cordially agreed to, and then “ Auld Lang Syne ”
was sung by Mrs. Hicks, the whole meeting joining in the
well-known chorus. This concluded the formal proceedings
of the evening, and as eleven o’clock had long passed, many
persons left at once, but a considerable number stopped to
inspect the specimens of spirit workmanship, and to express
personally to Mrs. Hardinge their sincere wishes for her
welfare.  
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WXL1IAM WHITE, AUTHOR OE “THE LIFE OF SWEDEKBORG.”
Wanted a definition of Human Nature. Happily the
want is not hard to satisfy. That man consists of Will
and Understanding is an ancient discovery, and one
that modern research is not likely to supersede.
The Will is not simple, but complex : it is composed
of various Affections or Passions or Loves.
The Understanding likewise is not simple, but com¬
plex: it is composed of various Faculties, perceptive
and reflective.
There are also a number of faculties which it is
difficult to assign unreservedly to either Will or Under¬
standing, such as conscience, veneration, and imagina¬
tion. In creation there are few chasms, but, as in the
colours of the rainbow, species blend softly into each
other. So these faculties may be supposed to mediate
between the Will and the Understanding and partake
of the nature of each.
As we study the Will we perceive that its Loves or
Passions or Affections are of two orders,, namely. Ab¬
sorbent and Distributive; that one set hauls in and
the other gives out; that one set is gratified with what
contributes to the satisfaction and edification of Self,
whilst the opposite set is gratified with what contributes
to the satisfaction and edification of Others.
Wherefore we may summarily speak of the Will as
dual, as composed of two Loves, or two Forces, or two
orders of Passions, namely, the Love of Self and the
Love of Others.
I am aware that a long and lively controversy has
been waged as to this division of the Will into Love of
Self and Love of Others.
It has been argued that Love of Others is only
a modification of Love of Self; that we are kind
to Others because kindness to Others affects us agree¬
ably, just as savoury food gratifies our gustatory nerves,
or a lucrative speculation our avarice. The answer
to such cynical badinage is briefly this—that it is
not pretended that the exercise of Love of Others
does not beget pleasurable emotions, but that such
emotions are by no means the aim or end of the Love;
that there is all the difference between the Love of Self
and the Love of Others that there is between centripetal
and centrifugal motion; and that to confound the motive
of the thief with the motive of the Good Samaritan is
to play havoc with all distinctions in Human Nature
whatever.
In fully developed man the Love of Self is subordinate
or tributary to the Love of Others. He desires health,
seeks pleasure, money, power, and admiration, but
either bends the strength or means so acquired to social
service, or mortifies Self Love when its gratification
hinders or injures that service. The Love of Others
wisely exercised suppresses no satisfaction of Self Love
wantonly. Indeed it is obvious that the Love of Others
would inevitably break down unless guarded by the
Love of Self. If a man does not care for himself, how can
he with any permanency or efficiency serve others ? If he
is reckless of his body, he falls sick or feeble and becomes
a burden to others instead of a help; if he is reckless
of money, he soon lacks the assistance he should provide.
Continually and lamentably do we see a noble passion
for Others conduct its subject to ruin through ignorance
or forgetfulness of Self. “ I should not care to eat or
earn money if it were not for the sake of Others ; if for
the gratification of Self alone, I should unhesitatingly
prefer extinction.” Well said, good brother, but no such
alternative is set before you. If you do not enjoy your
victuals, you will have a shaky constitution wherewith
to work for your friends; and if you do not earn your
living, your friends will have to find a living for you;
and if you do not earn something more than your living,
your beneficence can only be vicarious.
The Understanding with its various faculties is the
servant of the Will, and more than its servant. The
Will is manifested in the Understanding, and aocording
to the development and range of the Understanding is
the Will capable of efficient action; indeed the Will
has been defined as a substance whereof the Under¬
standing is the form. The most generous affections
may have a poor display in-a low and. narrow intellect,
and on the other hand, the most selfish passions may
have a magnificent career by reason of an excellent
intellect. Everybody’s experience will supply instances
of benevolence yoked with mental imbecility, and self¬
ishness with mental vigour. In a word, the Under¬
standing is the council-chamber and arsenal of the
Will, and according to its capacity and resources does
the Will compass its ends whatever the}'' may be.
Phrenology sets forth an important truth in its hierarchy
of voluntary, rational, and perceptive faculties. AIL
men have common affections, but of diverse strength in
each individual. All men have common perceptions of
sequence and phenomena, but of varied acuteness in
each individual. All alike have* sexual passion and
affection for children, but in some so vigorous as to
vitally determine the character, and in others so feeble
as to render their privation a matter of indifference.
All alike have a sense of justice and of awe for the
Supreme, but in some so strong that injustice excites
acute suffering or fiery indignation, and the worship of
God intense joy, whilst in others the sight of wrong
induces no distress, and atheism is their easy and
ordinary condition. It is the same with the mental
faculties. In some, reason appears to be a powerful
instinct; others have most imperfect conceptions of
why and wherefore. Some are blind to colours; others
discriminate at a glance the finest shades; some cannot
reckon beyond their fingers; others solve elaborate
problems in arithmetic with facility; some have little
sense of size and weight, whilst others have the sharpest;
some can find a path in labyrinths whilst others are
bewildered in a village; to some music is so much noise
whilst to others it is the divinest of delights. And so
on and on.
The advice is sometimes tendered to cultivate the
circle of our faculties and to allow none to rest
dormant. The ideal intention of the advice is as easy to-
appreciate as its reduction to practice is difficult. It is
meant that all our intellectual powers should be
nourished and exercised by acquaintance with universal
science, literature and art.
As for our Affections—social, conjugal, reverential,
benevolent, conscientious, imaginative, mirthful, vin¬
dictive, acquisitive, gustative—the same advice is
applicable; but they are exercised, more or less
effectively, in the ordinary course of existence. Our
Affections are the forces whereby our Intellects arc
impelled, and by our Intellects our function and
position in the community are determined.
Suppose we take the advice, and make an earnest
study of music, physiology, the Greek language, and
English history—Where should we find ourselves in &
few years ! how many faculties undrilled ! how many
realms of knowledge neglected and unexplored!
The advice is impracticable. Whoever took it
seriously would reduce himself to imbecility, or to a.
desultory fribble.
The more sensible advice is for a man to cultivate
his special or predominant faculties—“ to follow his.
taste,” “ comply with his inclination,” “ develop his
facility”—and if possible make of their exercise the
business of his life.
We may safely assert that every individual in the
universe can do some one thing more efficiently than
any other. No two creatures are alike, and the
peculiarity of each constitutes a qualification for a
special function. The most insignificant has, we may
say, “a cut of character” which adapts him or her
for a place in society that no other could equally well
occupy.
But it will be asked, Is it not a hard and narrow
ideal of life, that would confine any one to a definite-
function after the manner of the ancient Egyptians or
the Hindoos ? Is it forgotten that some can do not one,,
but many things excellently well ? and would you deny
scope to those who are of a universal genius ?
By no means. I frankly admit that it is the function
of certain rare spirits to exhibit a multiform excellence,
and of a larger number to be versatile smatterers—to-
August 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
know a little of many things, and only a little, to be
apt at various arts and accomplishments. Jacks of
many trades are useful, and to be such a Jack is a
proper vocation.
Nor. should it be supposed that I imagine or recom¬
mend an order or rule of life externally enforced, but
an internal and spontaneous. Maintaining that every
one, according to the character of his organisation, has
a special function in society, I hold that that function
•can only be ascertained by experiment, with probably
numerous and bitter disappointments; that the advice
or dictation of others is likely to be of little avail in' the
quest; and that when found, a sure evidence of success
will be the satisfaction and happiness attendant on the
exercise of the function for' which the organism was
specially designed. When faculty and duty are united
life becomes enjoyment indeed.
Our proper business, I said, should be found in the
exercise of our special or predominant faculties. But
should our other faculties be allowed to rest dormant ?
Not at all. Many faculties relatively feeble may yield
invaluable assistance, to their superiors. Then too facul¬
ties unexercised in the main business of life may serve
for recreation and amusement. Indeed, who can escape
from theology and politics, and the wide mental activity
which they involve? A grocer may dabble in chemistry,
a carpenter in philology, a shoemaker in poetry, a
banker may be an adept in painting, and a barrister
in architecture. It is by such amateurs that the
humanising influences of science, art and literature are
diffused, and sympathy begotten between their special
professors and the community.
The danger of amateurship lies in its temptation to
excess, to become more than amateurship, to draw off
and dissipate energy that ought to go to the proper
business of life. A shopkeeper to whom books are a
greater pleasure than trade should consider whether
study is not his rightful function, so that neither should
books injure him as a tradesman, nor shopkeeping as a
student. We see the danger flagrantly exhibited in the
case of music. It is well, perhaps, that everybody should
be instructed in the elements of harmony, as in the
elements of mathematics, but the number of those whose
brains are capable of proficiency in the art, so as to yield
delight to themselves or others, is limited, just as the
possibility of excellence in poetry, or sculpture, or elo¬
quence is limited. Spite of this fact, every female whose
lot is above drudgery is taught music, or rather is
condemned to piano-practice, and spends innumerable
hours in drumming over its keys, with capacity or
without capacity. What would I have ? I would have
only such studies earnestly and profoundly pursued
where there is a manifest capacity for the study, and
where there was no capacity or slight capacity, I should
be content with superficial or general instruction.
Lord Chesterfield is in these days unduly depreciated,
commonly on hearsay, for he is rarely read. His
Letters are full of rare good sense, and thick with
original and sparkling observation; and as bearing on
the present subject I may cite a piece of advice ad¬
dressed to his son at Yenice, in 1749 :—
“ As you are now in a musical country, where
singing, fiddling, and piping are not only the common
topics of conversation, but almost the principal objects
of attention, I 6annot help cautioning you against giving
into those (I will call them illiberal) pleasures, (though
music is commonly reckoned one of the liberal arts) to
the degree that most of your countrymen do when they
travel in Italy. If you love music, hear it; go to
operas, concerts, and pay fiddlers to play to you; but I
insist upon your neither piping nor fiddling yourself.
It puts a gentleman in a very frivolous and contemptible
light; brings him into a great deal of bad company;
and takes up a great deal of time, which might be
much better employed. Few things would mortify me
more than to see you bearing a part in a concert, with
a fiddle under your chin, or a pipe in your mouth.”
The advice, taken in the spirit, may be applied to any
pursuit for which we have either no capacity for ex¬
cellence, or for which with some capacity we suffer loss
of time and strength beyond what we can rightly spare
from our main or prime function. In fine, we must be
satisfied to remain ignorant of many things if we would
know a few thoroughly, and concentrate our mental
force in its most capacious channel if we would do our
best in the world and for the world.
What all this has to do with Other World Order may
not clearly appear, but will distinctly by-and-by. For
the present I shall conclude with the remark, that
among our various passions there is always one that is
strongest and supreme, and gradually reducing the
others to implicit subjection. This by Swedenborg is
designated the Ruling Love, and is defined as either
a Love of Others or a Love of Self, constituting the
man in the first case a denizen of Heaven, and in the
second of Hell.
Mb. J. M. Peebles, Mr. Evans, and Mr. Burns gave
addresses on Spiritualism at Bradford, Yorkshire, last Sunday.
About six thousand copies of the last number of The
Spiritualist were posted by a few friends connected with the
movement, to the leading men of science and other persons in
Great Britain. *
SPIRIT-RAPPING IN JOHN WESLEY’S FAMILY.
IK TEK PARTS.—PART KIKE.
John Wesley thus continues his narrative by quoting
family letters:—
Sister Nakcy’s account to Jack.
“ Sept. 10, 1726.
“ The first noise my sister Nancy heard was in the
best chamber, with my sister Molly and my sister Sukey,
soon after my father had ordered her to blow a horn in
the garrets, where it was knocking violently. She was
terribly afraid, being obliged to go in the dark; and
kneeling down on the stairs, desired that, as she acted
not to please herself, it might have no power over her.
As soon as she came into the room, the noise ceased,
nor did it begin again till near ten: but then, and for a
good while, it made much greater and more frequent
noises than it had done before. When she afterwards
came into the chamber in the day-time, it commonly
walked after her from room to room. It followed her
from one side of the bed to the other, and back again,
as often as she went back; and whatever she did which
made any sort of noise, the same thing seemed just to
be done behind her.
“ When five or six were set in the nursery together,
a cradle would seem to be strongly rocked in the room
over, though no cradle had ever been there. One night
she was sitting on the press bed, playing at cards with
some of my sisters, when my sisters Molly, Hetty,
Patty, and Kezzy were in the room, and Robert Brown.
The bed on which my sister Nancy sat was lifted up
with her on it. She leaped down, and said, 1 Surely
old Jeffery would not run away with her.’ However,
they persuaded her to sit down again; which she had
scarce done, when it was again lifted up several times
successively a considerable height; upon which she left
her seat, and would not be prevailed upon to sit there
any more.
“ Whenever they began to mention Mr. S., it pre¬
sently began to knock, and continued to do so till they
changed the discourse. All the time my sister Sukey
was writing her last letter to him, it made a very great
noise all round the room ; and the night after she set
out for London, it knocked till morning with scarce
any intermission.
“ Mr. Hoole read prayers once; but it knocked as
usual at the prayers for the king and prince. The
knockings at those prayers were only towards the be¬
ginning of the disturbances, for a week or thereabouts.”
The Rev. Mr. Hoole’s account.
Sept. 16.
|| As soon as I came to Epworth, Mr. Wesley telling
me he sent for me to conjure, I knew not what he
meant, till some of your sisters told me what had hap¬
pened, and that I was sent for to sit up. I expected
every hour, it being then about noon, to hear something
extraordinary, but to no purpose. At supper too, and
at prayers, all was silent, contrary to custom; but soon
after, one of the maids, who went up to sheet a bed,
brought the alarm that Jeffery was come above stairs.
We all went up, and as we were standing round the fire
in the east chamber, something began knocking j ust on
the other side of the wall, on the chimney-piece, as with
a key. Presently the knocking was under our feet
Mr. Wesley and I went down, he with a great deal of
hope, and I with fear. As soon as we were in the
kitchen, the sound was above us, in the room we had
left. We returned up the narrow stairs, and heard at
the broad stairs’ head some one slaring with their feet
(all the family being now in bed beside us), and then
trailing, as it were, and rustling with a silk night-gown.
Quickly it was in the nursery, at the bed’s head, knock¬
ing as it had done at first, three by three. Mr. Wesley
spoke to it, and said he believed it was the devil; and
soon after, it knocked at the window, and changed its
sound into one like the planing of boards. From thence
it went on the outward south side of the house, sound¬
ing fainter and fainter, until it was heard no more.
“ Epwocth, Sept. 1.
“ My sister Kezzy says she remembers nothing else,
but that it knocked my father’s knock, ready to beat
the house down, in the nursery one night.”
Robik Browk’s account to Jack.
“ The first time Robin Brown, my father’s man,
heard it, was when he was fetching down some corn
from the garrets. Somewhat knocked on a door just by
him, which made him run away down stairs. From
that time it used frequently to visit him in bed, walking
up the garret stairs, and in the garrets, like a man in
jack-boots, with a night-gown trailing after him, then
lifting up his latch and making it jar, and presently
making a noise in his room like the gobbling of a
turkey-cock, then stumbling over his shoes or boots by
the bedside. He was resolved once to be too hard for
it, and so took a large mastiff we had just got to bed
with him, and left his shoes and boots below stairs; but
he might as well have spared his labour, for it was
exactly the same thing, whether any were there or no :
the same sound was heard as if there had been forty
pairs. The dog, indeed, was a great comfort to him;
for as soon as the latch began to jar, he crept into bed,
made such a howling and barking together, in spite of
all the man could do, that he alarmed most of the family.
“ Soon after, being grinding corn in the garrets, and
happening to stop a little, the handle of the mill was
turned round with great swiftness. He said nothing
vexed him, but that the mill was empty; if com had
been in it, old Jeffery might have ground his heart out
for him; he would never have disturbed him.
“ One night, being ill, he was leaning his head upon
the back kitchen chimney (the jam he called it), with
the tongs in his hands, when from behind the oven-stop,
which lay by the fire, somewhat came out like a white
rabbit. It turned round before him several times, and
then ran to the same place again. He was frightened,
started up, and ran with the tongs into the parlour
(dining-room).”
SPIRITUALISM AND THE NEWSPAPERS.
The last number of Ihe Spiritualist has induced the
editors of many newspapers to express their opinions about
Spiritualism. The Coventry Herald of July 28th thinks that
some strange force is concerned in the manifestations, that
the experiments of Mr. Crookes are thoroughly reliable, but
that the transportation of Mrs. Guppy is a case of ‘‘ humbug
and deception ” rendered possible by the force or forces
aforesaid. It calls Mrs. Guppy a professional medium, which
is not a fact. It recommends the perusal of a work published
in 1866 by Mr. Charles Bray, on “ Force and its Mental Cor¬
relates.” The Ballymena Observer [(county Antrim), of
July 29th, under the heading of “Natural or Supernatural ?—
Fact or Fraud ? ” reprints much of Mr. Coleman’s article, and
gives a very fair and carefully drawn up summary of the in¬
formation about Spiritualism in the last number of The
Spiritualist, which would probably be of the most interest to
those totally unacquainted with the subject. The editor adds
no newspaper abuse,—which is unusual. The Malvern News,
of July 29th, quotes in full without comment our description
of the latest experiments by Mr. Crookes. The Newcastle
Weekly Chronicle of July 29th has a very favourable article on
Spiritualism, giving its readers much information, and admit¬
ting that Mr. Crookes has demonstrated that some' strange
power is connected with Mr. Home. It thinks the spirit
poetry through Mr. Harris’s mediumship to be of a very
superior kind. The Echo thinks the same poetry to be very
poor indeed. The Berks Telegraph of July 28th, quotes Lord
Lindsay’s article from the last number of The Spv itualist
without comment. The Eife Herald of July 27th has one of
the most sensible and unprejudiced articles on Spiritualism
that we have ever seen, considering that it is apparently written
without prejudice by a man who has no knowledge of the
subject. It reviews the contents of the last number of The
Spiritualist, says that the evidence contained therein is per¬
plexing to those who are not Spiritualists, and urges investiga¬
tion. Some of the London daily papers, notably the Daily
News, content themselves with scurrilous newspaper abuse,
and never urge investigation. Some recent leading articles
on the subject in the Daily News and Saturday Review, con¬
tain some cool and deliberate untruths about Mr. Home, the
impure inventions of the writers. The Birmingham Morning
News of July 28th contains an article written apparently
while the editor was in a state of frantic terror, He says
that “the roll of scientific and literary men from Alfred.
Bussell Wallace down to Gerald Massey, who believe in such
levitations, is simply astounding ; ” and he remarks that if
Mr. Home can “ set at defiance, by means of his psychic force,
the ordinary laws of leverage, what guarantee have we that”
the horrible stories piled up by the imaginative brains of
Dumas and Cagliostro, may not become fearful realities ? ”
He says that Mr. Crookes’s article “ has set all London on
fire, and the Spiritualists rabid with excitement.” He also
wishes to be informed, “ What is the advantage to the world
in general of a Mrs. Guppy (shade of Dickens, do you know
her ?) careering by a private pneumatic despatch of her own
from Highbury to Lambs Conduit Street, in a state of indecent
deshabille f ’’ By the unscientific use of the imagination, he
has dragged the word “indecent” into the preceding ques¬
tion. Is it indecent to be without a bonnet or shawl, and in
a morning dress instead of an evening one ? This was the
state of Mrs. Guppy on the evening in question. While the
truth of Spiritualism is disputed, we are obliged to give most
space to the description of the physical manifestations which
scientifically prove its reality and power ; its use and good are
demonstrable to those who will give a very little of their
valuable time to serious inquiry. During three years incessant
investigation and observation of physical manifestations, we
have only been present at one seance where they have been
thoroughly disagreeable and offensive ; that occurred recently,
and immediately after Mr. Herne had had a quarrel with Mr.
Williams, so that spirits of a very low order seemed for an
hour or two to have obtained power to act upon the former. The
Western Mail, a daily paper published in Cardiff, calls atten¬
tion to Mr. Crookes’s investigations, and Lord Lindsay’s
article ; it says that there are many spiritualists in the Merthyr
district. Nature, one of the highest and purest papers pub¬
lished in this country, has an article by Dr. Balfour Stewart,
which we reprint in another column. The Spectator had an
article giving rise to a letter from Mr. Crookes, which letter
we also republish. The medical journals have not been silent.
Ihe Lancet had an article on Mr. Crookes’s experiments,
some of the statements in which are so low as to be unfit for
quotation; it is the coarsest and most vulgar article of any
we have had occasion to notice. Two other medical journals
published criticisms of a better class. The Malvern News of
July 8th contains a letter by Dr. Gully on Spiritualism,
pointing out how The A thenceum and some other papers are
beginning to change their tone about Mr. Home, whom they
have abused so often.
The foregoing summary gives an idea of the general tone
of public feeling, gathered from various newspapers which
have been posted to us. When newspapers are posted to us,
the article to which the sender desires to call attention, should
be marked with ink.
AKSWERS TO CORRESPOKDEKTS.
J. J.—Birmingham, and other correspondents. We cannot find
room in this number for several letters we intend to publish.
The names of those who have written expressing their wish to
become members of the Psychological Society have been sent onto the
gentlemen interested in its formation. Other ladies and gentlemen
who wish to become members are requested to send us their names
and addresses. We shall publish something about the proposed
society in out next.
190
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 15,1871.
ETERNAL PUNISHMENT.
The following lines are quoted from A Tale of Eternity and other Poems,*
by Mr. Gerald Massey. A great deal of the knowledge of the conditions of
the next life published by Mr. Massey in these poems, has evidently been
gathered by means of long experience in Spiritualism, therefore we com¬
mend the book to the attention of Spiritualists. One of the poems tells
very forcibly how and why some of the lower orders of spirits tempt human
beings to do wrong, without knowledge on the part of the individuals that
they are subject to any such influences. He also explains the nature of the
protection and guardianship of the higher spirits. Between these two in¬
fluences, as Swedenborg teaches, men are in a state of freedom or equili¬
brium, able to choose either the good or the bad.
From end to end of things we may not see,
Nor square the circle of Eternity;
But, I can not believe in endless hell
And heaven side by side. How could I dwell
Among the Saved, for thinking of the Lost ?
With such a lot the Blest would suffer most.
Sitting at feast all in a Golden Home,
That towered over dungeon-grates of Doom,
My heart would ache for all the lost that go
To wail and weep in everlasting woe:
Thro’ all the music I must hear the moan,
Too sharp for all the harps of Heaven to .drown.
I cannot think of Life apart from Him
Who is the life, from cell to Seraphim;
And, if Hell flame unquenchably, must be
The life of hell to all eternity!
A God of love must expiate the stain
Of sin Himself by suffering endless pain.
Sit with eternal desolation round
His feet; His head with happy heavens crowned.
From Him the strength immortal must be sent,
By which the soul could bear the punishment.
I cannot think He gave us power to wring
From one brief life eternal suffering:
If this were so the Heavens must surely weep,
Till Hell were drown’d in one salt vast, sea-deep.
Forgive me. Lord, if wrongly I divine;
I dare not think Thy pity less than mine.
I cannot image Heaven as Triumph-Oar,
That roileth ivd and reeking from the war,
Upborne on wheels of torture wheeling round
With writhing souls for ever broke and bound!
God save me from that Heaven of the Elect,
Who half rejoice to count the numbers wreckt.
Because, such full weight to the balance given,
Sends up the scale that lands them sure in heaven;
Who some fallen Angel would devoutly greet,
And praise the Lord for another vacant seat,
And the proud Saved, exulting, soar the higher,
The lower that the Lost sank in hell-fire.
I think Heaven will not shut for’evermore,
Without a knocker left upon the door,
Lest some belated Wanderer should come
Heart-broken asking just to die at home,
So that the Father will at last forgive,
And looking on His face that soul shall live.
I think there will be Watchmen thro’ the night,
Lest any, afar off, turn them to the light;
That He who loved us into life must be
A Father infinitely Fatherly,
And, groping for Him, these shall find their way
From outer dark, thro’ twilight, into day.
I could not sing the song of Harvest Home,
Thinking of those poor souls that never come;
I could not joy for Harvest gathered in,
If any souls, like tares and twitch of sin,
Were flung out by the Farmer to the fire,
Whose smoke of torment, rising high and higher,
Should fill the universe for evermore.
I could not dance along the crystal floor
Thro’ which the damned lookt up at Paradise,
For ever fixed, like fishes frozen in ice.
Such mournful eyes from out their night would gleam
And haunt for ever all my happy dream.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this jour nal and its readers.']
BISHOP BERKELEY’S TEACHINGS.
Sir,—I am rather surprised to find so much attention given
to the lecture on Berkeley’s idealism, with which Professor
Huxley bewildered the ladies at the Royal Institution, and
more to his own gratification I suspect, than to the enlighten¬
ment of his audience, and in whose existence, according to
Berkeley, he had no reason to believe. Berkeley’s idealism is
the most shallow and inconclusive of all systems of philosophy.
Nor has any idealist, not even Berkeley’s enthusiastic advo¬
cate, my old friend Mr. Colyne Simon, ever attempted or
certainly has not succeeded in a reply to Hume, who showed
that Berkeley’s argument, fairly carried out, led to absolute
scepticism, and as it stands, in denying an external world, it
must ignore spiritual existences as well as material bodies,
for individual ideas. But Berkeley not only denied the
external objective world, but the internal powers of the
mind. For how, indeed, could there be perception when there
was nothing to perceive, and when the very eye itself was but
an idea of his mind? No doubt he affirmed that the sensa¬
tions and ideas themselves were perceptions, but that is
another thing. But in the whole argument an external world is
assumed in the very language used by way of disproving its ex¬
istence. And you cannot eat your cake and have it still. If Pro¬
fessor Huxley fancies he can bewilder Spiritualists by raising
such repeated clouds of metaphysical dust, he is much mistaken,
and all to stay inquiry and avoid the labour of investigation.
True, he may plead, as he has done, that he has no time, and
finds no interest in the subject; but that is no reason for his
trying to discourage others. The other day he rushed down
to Edinburgh to set Hume up against an archbishop, and now
we have Berkeley against Hume. What next ? H. G. A.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, July 31st, 1871.
SPIRITUALISM AND CULTURE.
SIR,—Mr. Gerald Massey’s remarks on the evening of the
28th, at St. George’s Hall, on normal and abnormal medium-
ship (though I do not concur in all he said on that subject),
have led me to some reflections on what I may characterise
as the relations between Spiritualism and culture. Ever since
I first became acquainted with Spiritualism, there has appeared
to me to be a rooted dislike on the part of most professing
Spiritualists towards any kind of learning or culture, not
derived from their own peculiar sources ;f a kind of profes¬
sional jealousy towards amateur investigators who do not
accept the belief without questioning, or rather without bring¬
ing the knowledge they already possess, to bear upon it.
Now all this seems to me to be based on a misunderstanding
of the uses of culture. It is true, as the progressionists hold,
that the present is to us who live in it, the most important
moment in the world’s history, but they seem to forget that
its foundations are laid far back in the past, and that none
* Strahan & Co., Ludgate-hill.
f Suck is not our experience, though there may he some cases of the
kind.—Ed.
can appreciate aright the new growth, or estimate its true
relation to the whole structure, who cannot view it in com¬
parison with all that underlies and surrounds it. All that is
new, anti that is to remain, must grow organically out of the
old, and we want cultivated, well-balanced, and unprejudiced
minds to show us how to lop, and square, and fit things into
their proper places, or they will lie as heaps of rubbish in our
way. The same men cannot be both workers and critics. The
labour must be divided. And for Spiritualists to ignore or
taboo ancient classic literature, mediaeval art, modern science,
or any form of culture, is suicidal and iconoclastic. Spiritualism
is an added force, not a supplanting monopoly, and we want
all these things to make man perfect, else they had never
existed.
The amount of useful knowledge hitherto conveyed to us by
“abnormal” (?) means is certainly small;, but it is not un¬
reasonable to suppose that the possession of various branches
of knowledge in harmonious proportion by highly sensitive
Spiritualists, will lead to an order of mediums through whom
spirits will be enabled to communicate truths which cannot be
transmitted through the less cultivated. The progressionists
will assert that the pride of learning renders this impossible.
But are the most learned always the most proud ? We have
been told it is a little knowledge that is the dangerous thing,
and it is my own experience that among the most highly
cultivated is generally to be found the most liberality of
thought. And to come more particularly to Spiritual inspira¬
tion—was Milton less inspired than Burns, because he re¬
ceived his education at Cambridge, and further cultivated his
intellect'by foreign travel? Did not the sages of antiquity
explore as much of the world as then lay open to them ? Was
not Moses learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians ? And
is it not supposed by some modern writers, that One greater
than all these must have spent His early manhood in visiting
lands of culture remote from homely Nazareth?
To become a Spiritualist cannot, therefore, necessitate an
abjuration of all former sources of enlightenment, but rather
makes these of greater avail, by explaining much that was
formerly mysterious in them.
Let not those who possess the gifts of modern mediumship,
valuable though they be, affect to despise the accumulated
riches of past and present culture. It is in the blending of all
I these powers that we hope to see the future normal man, and
we must take care that we do not allow one to neutralise the
other, by an undue exaltation of either. Adamanta.
SPIRITUALISM AT HOME.
Sir,—I send you the following narrative of facts which I
am sure will interest many of your readers.
Mrs. Everitt and three of her children are just now staying
here, for change of air and rest. On this account we had no
intention of asking her to have a sitting with us, but you
may be sure we were much gratified when she kindly agreed
to join the children’s seance, at my brother’s house, on Sunday
evening, July 9th.
Our party numbered twelve,’ and consisted of Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt with their three youngest children, Mr. Morell
Theobald and his four children, nurse Ford and myself.
Having taken our seats round a large heavy dining table,
raps came at once in all parts, i.e., not only on the table but
under it on the floor, and on a large footstool close by me, and
which with the table was moved about freely, by spirit agency
during the whole evening. By the raps my brother was
directed to open the siance by reading the 23rd Psalm ; and
then to offer up a short prayer.
Very soon my hand was moved to write a message. It was
addressed to the children from our little ‘ Louisa.’ In case
you may like to insert it, as a specimen of the sort of teaching
the little ones here receive from ‘our group ’ in the spirit land,
I will copy it.
“ Little spirits are here in. vast numbers. I, Louisa, speak through you,
dear Aunt F, to give to each one, our dear spirit-love—the purest, the only
true love. Let them cultivate this, by endeavouring to overcome all little
jealous, and angry, and above all, all selfish feelings. If they are selfish we
cannot get near them, but rather will the evil spirits, who will try to teach
them to deceive, first, by;saying, t you need not mind that little fault, it is not
much, as you are very little, and when you are grown up you can put it
aside.’ But that is very wicked, and very false, for whatever you yield to as
little children will grow like a small seed into a great tree.
“The gardener always roots out the weeds, or they would grow and
spoil the lovely flowers.
“ So with you, a small fault, a wee failing, will become great. My dear
little brothers and sisters (for I include Mrs. Everitt’s little ones too), do bo
very good, do pray each day, ‘Good Jesus, my tender shepherd, keep Thy
little lamb this day, and save me from evil thoughts. Oh, hold me in Thy
arms, and bless me, then I can in my turn do good to other poor little dears
who do not know of the good spirits around! We all love you all very
much, each one of you. Good-bye my precious ones.
“From your sister LOUISA.”
Nurse Ford, who is a seeing medium, now described
mamma as standing by me, and wishing to write through my
mediumship. On my taking up the pencil she wrote a few
words asking us to close the shutters as she could then show
herself better. We obeyed her desire, but as it was a bright
summer evening sufficient light came in through the cracks to
show every object in the room ; we could, see each other dis¬
tinctly. We now placed a plain piece of writing paper and a
pencil under Mrs. Everitt’s chair, thereby ensuring the most
entire darkness the room could afford. We sang many little
hymns, and whilst doing so the table moved about and tilted,
keeping accurate time to the music. Raps were continuous,
and most varied in sound. The room was filled with delicious
scented breezes, and several of us saw bright little stars of
light, like a shower of small diamonds glittering all over one
part of the table. Continually I was touched by spirit hands.
At eight o’clock we were directed to sing the Doxology, and
send the children to bed, but were also specially requested by
our spirit friends to meet again a little later in the evening.
On taking up the piece of paper from the floor we found
written clearly by direct spirit-writing, “We will come
again.’’ After supper, having disposed of the juveniles, we
resumed our circle, Nurse Jones joined us, and my sister, Mrs.
M. Theobald, remained in the room, but kept on the sofa at
the further end, so we were but seven in number, six of us
being round the table.
We removed one of the leaves of the table, and only par¬
tially closing it, threw the table cover over loosely. Im¬
mediately the cloth was pushed up and down, and when we
put our hands over the aperture, we were distinctly touched
by what we presumed to be spirit fingers.
Soon we were directed to put the lights out, and as the
evening darkness had now set in, we found the conditions
most favourable. Strong scents came (which remained in the
rooms till the next morning), and delicious breezes were felt
by each one present. Spirit lights floated about all over the
room, seen by all of us. We sang many hymns, which were
chosen for us by our spirit friends, and as we sung, all heard
tmo and, sometimes three distinct spirit voices joining in har¬
mony ivith us 7 We heard dear grandpapa’s voice singing the
bass ; grandmamma sang a clear treble, peculiarly charac¬
teristic of her when on earth, for they were both very
musical, and took great pleasure in singing.
Then, to our great delight, dear grandpapa spoke to us. In
a low whisper, but loud enough to be heard by each of us, he
uttered several sentences, which he repeated when we had
difficulty in hearing them. He said that he hoped soon to get
more power, and often to talk with us. One of us remarked
that the word “Yes” was the most easy to pronounce first,
because of the sound of the “ s.” I asked him to say the word
*' No.” This he at once did several times distinctly. He told
us that to speak he used “emanations from the medium, but
not any of her vocal powers.’’ By this time Mrs. Everitt was
in a deep trance. Then “John Watt” spoke loudly, greeting
us in his usual hearty genial manner. He observed, “ So
jmu’ve had your grandpapa with you, and your papa has given
you a message.” I asked him what it was. “ You have it,” he
said, at which I was puzzled, when my sister said, “ He means
there is a written message.” “ Impossible ! ” I remarked
incredulously. “ Strike a light and see,” said John. This we
did, and our delight cannot easily be imagined when, lying on
the centre of the table we again found the following, written
clearly, and without mortal contact:—“My dear children, I
will come as often as I can, and talk to you.” We expressed
our wonder and extreme gratification at these marvellous
manifestations, crowding, as it were, so thickly upon us. “ If
we had not meant to give yon something very good,” John
said, “ we should not have told you to sit to-night.” Many
hymns we still sang as our dear spirit friends quickly chose
them for us, and they all were hymns that had been their
especial favourites when they were with us on earth. Once
we heard a few discordant notes. Morell said, “ Why there’s
papa singing, he always sang wrong.” “Yes,” John said, “he
says that’s to let you know it is him ! You know he never
| could get through a line of singing quite correctly ! ” This
had always been a standing joke with us even from child¬
hood. Mamma used to try to mahe him learn different tunes,
and succeeded in a measure, but very indifferently. For more
than an hour we continued this delightful intercourse with our
loved ones in the spirit home. I cannot recall the conversa¬
tions, and even if I could, it would but extend this paper
beyond reasonable limits. I can but say that the purport of it
all was elevating and soul-refreshing, and helped to strengthen
our gratitude to the Father over all, for thus sending His
ministering spirits to cheer us on our path through this
earth-life.
John Watt then desired us to sing | the Doxology,’’ and
with a few heartfelt impressive words of prayer, he left. As
soon as Mrs. Everitt came out of her trance, and before we had
told her a word of what had happened, she said she had been
with our group in the same room in which she saw them the
last time she was with them. She described it as most beau¬
tiful, and especially remarked upon the lovely and extensive
scenery from the windows. She said she had been conversing
with them all; that as she was talking with mamma, &c.,
grandpapa and papa came in and told her they had been sing¬
ing with us “ down there.” And papa had remarked to her
“ I sang out of tune so that they might know it was me ! ” Mrs.
Everitt now knows all our spirit relatives, although on earth
she did not know one; but she is naturally rather puzzled as
to the two “ grandpapas?' i.e., our grandpapa and owe papa
(who is grandpapa to the little ones). So she said to me, “It
was the one with dark curly hair who said he sang out of tune.
Your grandpapa is that fine old gentleman whose likeness is
hanging up in your room, is it not ? ”
“ I forgot to say that John Watt had told us that Mrs.
Everitt was with them.
“ Mr. and Mrs. Everitt kindly accompanied me home. As we
walked across the quiet fields we could see, as it was a clear
night, that no human beings were near us. Still we heard
footsteps plainly close about us all the way. We remarked
that probably John Watt was with us, and I said, “ If he is, I
wish he would let us feel him touch us.” Mr. Everitt wrs at
once struck on the back. I asked John to touch me ; before I
could utter the words a very decided stroke was given me over
the head and shoulders, and at the same moment Mr. Everitt
(walking close by me on the right side) was struck. I was
walking arm in arm with Mrs. Everitt on myjleft hand. We
both saw something, but Mr. Everitt, who was certainly in a
better position to see the top of my head than I was myself,
said he saw distinctly the form of a long arm, clothed in a
close coat sleeve, come as from behind Mrs. Everitt, pass over
my head and shoulders, and pass on to his own'shoulder. Just
at this time, being close to a small gate, we stood still, and
asked John Watt if he was with us, and whether these touches
were given by him. Immediately three distinct raps came,
from the centre of the gate post. There was no machinery
there. I would add more, but must conclude, or I shall
trespass too far upon your paper. F. T. Theobald.
Trelawn-terrace, Hendon, N.W.
me. crookes’s experiments.
Sir,—The bud of promise which appeared twelve months
since in the Quarterly Journal of Science has burst into blossom,
and the fruit thereof is already appearing. In the article,
under the title “ Experimental Investigation of a New Force,”
which Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., has this month published in
his journal, is seen the promise of the interest which the
scientific world will take in phenomenal Spiritualism when it
has a certain knowledge that the phenomena are real and can
be tested. At this stage of the development of mind, the
general reception and belief in phenomena which cannot be
accounted for by any known law, receives greater assistance
from the pronunciamento of the scientific man than of the re¬
ligionist ; therefore the effect which will be produced upon
mankind by this carefully worded article cannot be estimated.
The paper deals with the question from a purely material
stand-point; and necessarily so. Experience has shown us
that only the comparatively few are accessible to any other
demonstration than a physical one.
This is one of the effects of “ protected ” Christianity, which
closed the door of the spirit world some 1800 centuries ago,
and so closely closed of late have the “ambassadors ” kept it,
that spiritual existence has become a “ shadow,” and the re¬
ligion of life has been buried. The hand of the spirit has
written Mene, mene, tekel upharsin,” over dogmatic theology,
and commissioned science to unbar the door of the unseen
existence, and to reveal religion once more.
The paper, also, was written, not to show Spiritualists what
scientific men know of Spiritualism, but to show scientific
men how little they themselves know of the spiritual forces
which surround them, and in which they live.
The wisdom shown in the construction of the article, is as
perfect as the tests applied during the investigation.
C. W. Pearce.
6, Cambridge-road, TJie Junction, Kilburn, N.W.
August 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST-
191
SPIRIT UFE.
Sir,—A friend having sent me the last number of The
Spiritualist, I have read with much interest the proceedings
at the recent meeting. If Mr. Gerald Massey is right, it
would seem as if the great problem had at length been solv.ed,
and I shquld be only too glad to accept his conclusion^ if
satisfied on one point. What reliable accounts have we from
the spirits themselves of the morale of their spiritual existence ?
We have plenty of physical theories of another life ; but in
this view we ought to have closer revelations, and if I were
questioning a spirit, I should like to ask, “Are you p’ure
spiritual essences, or have you bodies, and of what kind ;
where are you located, and what are your occupations or pur¬
suits in the spiritual world ? ” This seems to me the, “ missing
link,” and if you or any of your readers can supply it, or
refer me to any work where these questions are believed to
be answered on the authority of the spirits themselves, I
should be greatly obliged. An Inquirer.
[ Spirits have bodies; they have also more senses and powers than our¬
selves. The lowest spirits live upon the earth, and seem to be chained
to the scene of their former crimes; they have also more direct power over
common matter, wo think, than the higher ones. This is why places where
great crimes have. been committed are often haunted. There isimuch in¬
formation about spirit life in the literature of Spiritualism. The book on
Spiritualism by Judge Edmonds and Ur. Bexter, of New York, is a good
one on the subject. Spirits differ in their religious and other opinions;
there is no more uniformity on the other side of the grave than on this
side. While fighting so hard to establish the facts of Spiritualism,_ the
spiritual periodicals are not able at present to give much space to questions
which will be fully considered in a year or two.—Ed.]
WHERE IS THE SPIRIT-WORLD ?
The following spirit message, received by Mr. R. H. Brown,
of Detroit, was printed in The Spiritual Telegraph, Yol. VII.,
published in 1855, by Messrs. Partridge and Brittan, New
York:—
“ And I questioned the Spirit and said, Where is the Spirit-
world ? And the Spirit answered—Here.' We dwell not in
some far-off sphere hanging in the lone depths of space, neither
do we wander, as some believe, without a local habitation,
homeless in the wide wilderness of the air. Our world is your
world; we are dwellers upon earth with the children of men.
“ Then, said the Spirit, you have dreamed. But listen, and
the truth shall be unfolded unto you. There are two worlds, a
world within a world, and these two are one. . Of the world in
which you live, you know nothing. That which you call your
world, is but a uniform system of constant appearances, which
result from the relations which your senses bear to the real
things about you. That which is real is unseen, that which
exists is invisible. The seen is an appearance, the unseen
and unknown are the truly existing. The mind is unseen, and
is only known by the effects it produces ; this you will under¬
stand ; but when I tell you that the same thing is equally true
of a stone or a tree, you will not comprehend me. Come, let
us analyse the origin of your idea of a tree.
“It is derived from your senses; and how from your senses ?
In no other way than by the effect which the tree produces on
your senses. But what is the cause of that effect ? You will
say the tree; and there lies the error in your philosophy. It
is not the tree, it is the relation which your senses bear to the
tree. Change that relation by modifying the senses, and the
effects produced on them by the tree will change also, but
fr6m those effects your idea of the tree is likewise altered.
“What is the table on which you write? It resists your
touch; you can not move your hand freely among its particles,
it is solid, it is impenetrable. But does not this idea of solidity
arise solely from the relation which the density of your hand
bears to the density of the table ? Change that relation. Were
your bodily organization composed of matter as rare and refined
as the invisible fluids, would not this idea of solidity vanish ?
A wall of brass affords no resistance to the passage of caloric,
and were your bodily organization as rare in substance, it would
be as easy for you to pass through such a wall as now through
the air. How then could the idea of its solidity be conveyed
to your senses ? And yet the wall of brass would still be the
same as before. You are changed,^but not the wall. But the
change in you, by reversing all your relations to the wall, has
changed all your ideas of the wall, therefore the wall itself
appears to be changed.
“ Imagine two beings, each possessed of a material body,
human in form, that of the one as dense in substance as your
own, but that of the other composed of matter as rare and
refined as the invisible fluids. Now the ideas which these two
beings would entertain of a mountain would be exactly opposite.
To the one it would be solid and impenetrable, presenting an
impassable obstacle to his approach; the other could walk
through and through it with ease. Each would have (what
man foolishly imagines to be) the highest evidence of the truth
of his individual idea—the evidence of his senses. But of the
really existing mountain neither would have any correct idea
at all. The actual mountain is unseen by both, each perceives
but the phantom which results from the peculiar relations
which its individual organism bears to it.
“ Is it not now plain to you that all material things are as
invisible and unknown as mind is, and are, like it, only appre¬
ciated by the effects produced by them upon the senses, and
through the senses on the soul ? The character of those effects
is determined by the relation of the senses to the thing, and
from the character of the effect the idea of the thing springs.
It follows, that in order to change this world into another, it
is not necessary to remodel it, but only to modify or add to
the senses of those who dwell therein, thus changing the
world’s relation to their material organism. Let the only
change in the body be one of density. Suppose your spirit
clothed in a body as rare as the invisible fluids, how strange
and unfamiliar would this world appear! A multitude of
invisible things would be seen, and many objects now seen
would vanish. That which now, ponderous and dense, pro¬
hibits your advance, would part before you like the liquid air,
and the air itself which, invisible and rare, now almost eludes
your senses, would appear more gross and material than the
waters. You could walk through space, as now upon the
solid earth, and into the bowels of the earth dive, as into the
sea. If in addition to a change in the density of your material
parts the senses were modified in kind and increased in
number, how much more wonderful would be the result! Both
your imagination and analysis will fall powerless in the
attempt to trace the effects of so stupendous a change. Death
wrought such a change in me. But, bear in mind, it was a
change in me only—a change of appearances in things only,
resulting from the changed relations of my senses to them.
There was no change in things themselves, yet, clothed with
a multitude of new appearances, to recognise them by their
former supposed properties was impossible. I said when I
began, That what you call your world was but a uniform
system of appearances resulting from the relations which your
senses bear to things about you. Do not these words now
seem to embody a great truth ? Is it not also plain to you,
that I place ’ is nothing, relation of sense to thing, all ?
‘ Place ’ is only identified by its constant or unchanging
features, its present appearance, which corresponds with its
remembered appearance. Suppose that as you now sit, such
a change in your bodily organization as I have hinted should
in an instant take place. Do you not see that you would in
a moment be as really in another world as if transported to
the most distant of the orbs that cluster in the milky way ?
And yet you would still continue to occupy the same place, the
same abstract portion of space, that you now do. And, more¬
over, nothing about you would be changed in fact, but in ap¬
pearance and seeming properties only.
“ I have now to mention but one single fact, in order to render
the words with which I began, We dwell upon earth with the
children of men, for there is a world within a world, and these
two are one, as plain and clear as the noon-day sun. And this
fact is a fact already known to you—a fact which one of old,
being influenced of the spirit, wrote down in these words:
“ ‘But some will say, How are the dead raised up ? And with
what body do they come ? Fool, that which thou sowest, thou
sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain, it may chance
of wheat or some other. But God (hath ordained) it a body,
as it hath pleased him, and to every seed his own body. All
flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of
men, another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and another of
birds. There are also celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial,
but the glory of the celestial is one, and of the terrestrial is
another. The sun hath one glory and the moon hath another,
and there is another glory unto the stars. And one star
differeth from another in glory. So also is the resurrection of
the dead. His body is sown in corruption, it is raised in in¬
corruption. It is sown in dishonour, it is raised in glory. It
is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural
body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body,
and there is a spiritual body.’
“ This covers the only supposition made in the whole course
of this communication.
“ AH Spirits have a spiritual body—a body, to you, incon¬
ceivably rare and refined. It is not only possessed of senses
like your own, so perfect as to exceed human imagination, but
also enjoys many others of a higher sort which can not be de¬
scribed to you. I have said to you, there are two worlds,
a world within a world ; this was to attain simplicity of argu¬
mentation. There are not two but seven, and these seven are
one, for there are seven orders of Spirits and seven spheres,
and these seven are one. Each of these and those therein are
normally invisible to those who dwell in the others; but there
is a communication between the spirits of each, even as there
is a communication between me and thee who art in the rudi-
mental sphere, which is the entrance unto the seven, albeit
that communication in the other six hath a different manner
and form. Farewell.”
“ Detroit, Michigan.
DR. BALFOUR STEWART ON SPIRITUALISM.
In a recent number of Nature Dr. Balfour Stewart,
F.R.S., formerly superintendent of the Observatory of
the British Association at Kew, and one of the chief of
our English philosophers, published the following article
on “ psychic force.” It will be noticed that he deals
with the subject in a fair and thoughtful spirit, as also
does Mr. Norman Lockyer, who has opened the pages
of Nature to the consideration of the causes of these
psychical phenomena. Two letters, and Professor Allen
Thomson’s ungentlemanly and unphilosophical remarks
on Spiritualism, have been printed in Nature since the
publication of Dr. Stewart’s article. As furniture is
sometimes broken by the manifestations, and as the
raps have been made by Mr. Crookes to automatically
register the vibrations they set up in the sounding sur¬
face, Dr. Stewart’s hypothesis of the phenomena being
due to a mental change in the observers, is untenable.
MR. CROOKES ON THE “ PSYCHIC ” FORCE.
“ With a boldness and honesty which deserve the greatest
respect, Mr. Crookes has come forward as an investigator of
those mysterious phenomena which have now been so long
before the public that it is unnecessary to name them, more
especially as their generally received name is very objection¬
able.
“ Two things have contributed to retard our knowledge of
these strange events. In the first place, until lately, few men
of name have been associated with their occurrence, so that
outsiders have not had the facts put before them in a proper
manner. In the next place, we are inclined to endorse the
remark of Mr. Crookes, that men of science have shown too
great a disinclination to investigate the existence and nature
of these alleged facts, even when their occurrence had been
asserted by competent and credible witnesses.
“ Before adverting to the results obtained by Mr. Crookes,
a few words may be said about our mode of procedure in
accepting testimony.
“ Let us suppose that a man comes before us as a witness of
some strange and unprecedented occurrence. Here it is evident
that we are not entitled to reject his testimony on the ground
that we cannot explain what he has seen in accordance with
our preconceived views of the universe, even although these
views are the result of a long experience ; for by this means
we should never arrive at anything new. Our first question
is manifestly one regarding the man’s moral character. Is he
an honest and trustworthy man, or is he trying to deceive us ?
“ Let us assume that we have convinced ourselves of his
honesty ; we are then bound to believe that he thought he
saw what he described to us ; not necessarily, however, that
the occurrence which he described actually took place. Con¬
vinced, already, that he is not deceiving us, we next
question whether he may not be deceived himself. Let us,
however, assume that, upon investigation, the circumstances
are such that collusion of any kind is out of the question, and
that the man is neither trying to deceive us, nor that it is
possible that he himself can have been deceived by others.
Even yet we have an alternative in our judgment of the
event. The phenomenon may be subjective rather than objec¬
tive, the result of an action upon the man’s brain rather than
an outstanding reality. For nothing is more certain than the
occasional occurrence of such strange impressions; and the
cat or the dog or the skeleton by which the patient is haunted
is frequently recognised even by himself as having no ex¬
ternal existence. Of late years we have been able to produce
instances of this depraved consciousness almost at will. The
author of these remarks considers it certain that the electro¬
biologist has frequently caused them. The unimpeachable
character of the patient, combined with the fact that he has
sometimes pronounced water to be wine, or a snowstorm to
be taking place in a room, can only be accounted for on the
supposition that he has been put into a peculiar state, during
which his evidence of events is utterly worthless. But beyond
the bare fact, we know next to nothing of the laws that
regulate this action, nor can we tell under what condi¬
tions one man is capable of influencing another, or whether
a man or body of men may not be capable of influencing
themselves.
“ To come now to the class of events which Mr. Crookes
has witnessed. It is greatly to his credit that he has come
forward so frankly and honestly ; and since he has begun to
investigate this peculiar class of facts, we are sure that he
will consider it his duty to continue the investigation in such
a way as to convince those men of science who may not
themselves be able to take up the question—outsiders in fact.
Mr. Crookes will, we are sure, not object to a few critical
remarks honestly made with the sole view of finding out the
truth, and we would therefore express a wish that, in order to
facilitate operations, the experiments should in future be
conducted by only such men as Mr. Crookes himself, and that
it should always be absolutely superfluous to investigate
whether machinery, apparatus, or contrivance of any sort, be
secreted about the persons present. We should thus start
from a higher platform, and the investigation would gain in
simplicity, although perhaps something might be lost in the
marked nature of the results obtained.
“ Allowing, however (as we are disposed to allow), that
things of an extraordinary nature are frequently witnessed on
such occasions, yet we are by no means sure that these con¬
stitute external realities. The very fact that the results are
uncertain, and that, as far we know, they have never yet been
obtained in broad daylight before a large unbiassed audience,
would lead us to suspect that they may be subjective rather
than objective, occurring in the imaginations of those present
rather than in the outward physical world. Nor can this
doubt be removed by any precision of apparatus ; for what
avails the most perfect instrument as long as we suspect the
operator to be under a mental influence of the nature, it may
be, of that which is witnessed in electro-biological experi¬
ments? The problem is, in fact, one of extreme difficulty,
and we do not see how it admits of proof, provided the in¬
fluence cannot be exerted in broad daylight and before a large
audience. There is, however, a cognate phenomenon which
admits of easy proof. We allude to clairvoyance, and have in
our mind at the present moment a man of science who, if not
himself a clairvoyant, has yet the power to command the ser¬
vices of one who is. Now, were he at once to communicate
to a journal such as Nature, in cipher, if necessary, the know¬
ledge derived through the influence, giving the proof after¬
wards when obtained in an ordinary manner, the public would
soon be in a position to judge whether there is any truth in
the influence or not.
“ It is, in fact, somewhat hard upon the writer of these re¬
marks and some others who are disposed to allow the possi¬
bility of something of this nature, but have not the opportunity
of investigating it, that those who have will not satisfy the
public with a convincing proof. B. Stewart.” .,
MR. CROOKES AND THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
(To the Editor of the Spectator.)
Sir,—The^ Spectator of Saturday last contains an
editorial note calculated to do me a great injustice;
and as it is extremely inaccurate, I must ask you to
allow me to answer it.
You state that a paper, to the same effect as my
article on “ Psychic Force ” in the Quarterly Journal
of Science, was offered by me to the Royal Society,
and declined by the committee. The fact is, that the
papers (for there were two) differed greatly from the
article in the Journal of Science; the former contain¬
ing many additional facts, and not including the whole
of the experiments described in the latter.
You not only say that the papers were declined, but
you proceed to state the grounds of their rejection.
The fact is that a quorum of the committee of papers
not having been present, they were deferred to the
next session in November, and on inquiry to-day at
Burlington House, I was informed by the Assistant-
Secretary of the Royal Society that my papers are,
with others, still awaiting the decision of the com¬
mittee. Consequently the statement of any grounds
for a rejection that was not made must be purely
imaginary.
Your note concludes with the remark that I must go
to work again, with stricter tests and better witnesses,
if I would vindicate my own and Dr. Huggins’s skill
as observers. After the encomium bestowed on Dr.
Huggins in the Spectator for July 8, your readers will,
I think, share my doubt if it be possible to find a more
eminent and trustworthy witness than this talented
Yice-President of the Royal Society. In self-defence
I may be excused for saying of myself that want of
accuracy has not been hitherto regarded as a charac¬
teristic of my scientific researches.
Knowing that my present investigation was a novel
one, I was prepared for the usual adverse criticism;
and I should have remained silent until I had prepared
another paper on the subject, had not a wrong been
done to me by an uncourteous commentary, based
upon an unjust misrepresentation.
July 27, 1871. William Crookes.
[We gladly insert this letter. Our note was not, however,
founded on any mere rumour. The words we used contained
an exact copy of the words conveyed to us as used, not, as we
inadvertently stated, by the committee, but by one of the secre¬
taries, Professor Stokes, who, in the absence of a quorum,
exercised tfmpwe the usual discretionary authority in re¬
gard to papers offered.—Ed. Spectator.]
192
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August *31, .1871.
FACTS FOB, NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
* so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
< within the ordinary range of human experi-
- ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained’that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE ;THAT SPmiTUAIISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit-
' nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
' actual facts, and not imposture or delusion^ has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr.' Robert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
, Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
. strpngly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Yarley,
, C.E., F.R.G.S., M.R.I.
“I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele-
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
■ the ’ defendant in this suit; and stated that I had
not. yet witnessed any of the, physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientiflc man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers, occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have, examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con-
i ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
/ been, since then, for seven months in America, where
* the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men,-and having
I experimented with and compared the forces with elec-
. trieity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests,-1 entertain no doubt whatever
tha't the njanifestations which I have myself examined
i were'not due to the operation of any of the recognised
. physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the’occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
* other than that of the medium and obs'ervers.” ’
It- also .came out in the evidence given at-the
; trial,,that Mr. Home had been the invited and un-
. paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
' French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em-
- f press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Oon-
1 stantineV’tke King of Prussia, .the late King of
‘ Bavaria, the late' King of Wurtemburg, ,and the
Queen'of - Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
. life helhasi'ri^errtaken a farthing of pay for his
- searacfis. ,?In»March, 1869, ..the '■ Spiritual Magazine
gave f%e,;nanie^oIrthe . following gentlemen as
, those who diayeripng been investigating, the sub-
5 - ject$r%
Esq., Meetwood-'house,' Beck'en-
hPimf®2afrea 'K.-. ‘Wallace, Esq., Holly Housef.iBarh--
. ihg; Professpr t)e Morgan, 91, Adelaiii^-roa'd?
• Captain .Hrays'dh, B.A., Wool^chyjDr. J. M-lQ-iilly,''
\ The Priory, Great Malvern; Dr. J.' .TiH; Wilkinson, 4,
.^LjjfcSL.John’s-wpbctvillas, N.W.: Dr. Dixon,'8. iQ-reat Or-
Wwmond-street, W.C.: S-.-CS. .Hall, Esq., 1 -VAshley-place,
Victoria^stfeot, SAY V Newton CroslancVlEsq.; \Viliiam
, ,,Iiowdtt„ Esq,,' The Orchard, :Hh^e^rhen,Jd!Bher,,Surrey;
•Rdb'crt ChamlairS, Esq.. St, Amdrew-'s,. Edinburgh-; il.
D. Jonoken, Esq.,. Kilniorey-house,-! Norwood; J. <5.
- Crawford, Esq., 52, Oloucester-cresceni,' N.W.; W. M.
‘ 'Wiilnri'soh/Esq.T^Oalcfleld, 'Kilbum; :Eord Adare,' 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
sqimre.”
; Mrs. De -Morgan has written a | bookj'.entitledi'
From Matter to. Spirit (Longmans), where ^-she,
gives''many interesting particulars, the-result of'
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism: Professor
- De jMorgan, President of the Mathematical Society
• of, Lqndpn, in his preface to the book, says:—
■. . ,‘,‘1 am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and.
’ heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos-,
t. siblej'ithings called - spiritual, which cannot'-hd-taken by
s a;,rational being to be capable of explanation by impos-
■‘' tdref cdihcidenCe, or mistake. So. far I feel the ground
. ffiyhnanderine.” . . i .
Dr. Hooker, in his, opening address, as President
. of the British-Association at Norwich in .1868,
l spoke; very, highly- of i the. scientific attainments of
? Mr) AlfredH. w allace,.E.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
• ravbwhd IBpiritunlistt - Professdr Hare,- of Phila-
: delphia) the '■ifiventor of rthe Hare’s Galvanic Bat-
, tery,„once,refused to •witness sphitnal phenomena,
' alleging that ‘''Paraday’s, “ unconscious muscular
ia(iti6ii'”'thqbryrfe'xplaiiied al! the facts. A friend
_-'-wrote;(tctkhim jdetailing things-he had seen which
were. inexplicable' by ^that.-^heory. Hare at once,
■ 'liKe’a sensiDleman^wefit to see for himself. The
- > hesnlt'ivtis ^thatihe -cam^ into communication with
■ -..sqine^ ofvhis b^yn; departed:.:reis.tiyes. He then
( .Iffiade ' mfechanical 'telegmphic ' machines, which
V were. inMlligently worked ',by' spirits while the
i apparatus w&® ocr,e,ened from the; sight of the
, irnedium;'dindthe:Wr.Q.te.vafhoIok recording all these
%acts * '''.That ibook is now .'in’, the British Museum
•«^Library." Jud^d E(ihohd&, of New York, is another
; Jyery; eminent Anipriqaif: Spmtuaystj jwho has also
J^yritten ihterestingbQoks onthe^ubject. Recently,
uL’in 'EAgiand, Yibcdunt "a.pdreJihqs?"written a; hook
■: ^B^arih^ testinidhy'to,the,trirtlfiof Sph'itnalism, and
.-iijyfia^.a prgface-by Lord' Duhraven. 1 This ’hook, is
«anted for - private circinlation. only, which is an
for; in 'judgment. Valuable’'evidence in favour
* Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and .his,
mily; for spirit, rapping and, movements of
■ -.wnoden materials by invisible agency occurred in'
| .iifeir own house. Documentary evidence’of what
witnessed was drawn np and signed on. the
•'ipi^Bpat, .and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
j11P>UmW; 'Crookes, E.R.S., editor' of .tire 'CHemdoi-
now investigating Spiritualismy and he
published_an article.in the Jimrna? oj
.stating, thatji(tsj phenomena are real, and
'^’nnots.eiusiicn OT.ithpostuf^, tRough he does not know
Ij^MBejfjSfethefcthey.arb produced by disembodied
iMpfc gie following letter, which he wrote to
’... H-^rNy^rleyj’was published in the Spiritualist of
HMpMMfo 187.0:—., J
“20, Mbmington-road, London, NW.
r:f : 3 •• ' “July 13tb, 1870.
' .“DEAEt.Ma. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
.i. ypnr letter of the'9tb insfc, in which you discuss some
points alluded to Ih iny paper on “ Spiritualism viewed
• by tbe Light of Modern Science.”
.'"f“ You, have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that J only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.,>,
. “I was deeply interested in reading.ofJ.-y.Qur. experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been wotking' in a sbhiiar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely at tangible
result. > . ’ i *.
“ You notice that I admit freely and fu^y the physical
phenomena. “Let’this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording)with’equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever .convictions
my investigation leads me to—wheBfefi .it^ppintsj to';_a
mere physical force, or makes me, as ypupfedict, a Con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesisk-but LimiSt let ihy con¬
victions come -in my own way, and if I hold- somewhat,
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
“I have already had. many ..letters, ;both,from Spiri¬
tualists and! frjbffi, Reading men ,of^scieppe,. saying .that
they are glad I have taken up the :supjeSf,'anq urging)
me to continue'the,investigatioh. »Jb
i agreeably, sjarpirisefifta-find encQraagem'gnf,£rphifie-nlarry
scientiflc men,, as well, as sympathy -from|t|hC«good
friends I possess, amongst^ the).rSpiritualiste.—Believe
me, my deaf sir, Very truly yours.* " •’R *** **'?'**;'
MPP* i '-‘.William^Orookes.”.
• | ; r' - t S"' -•
A work, entMecLTYe Boojc of Nature, \ by C. O.
Groom ' (London, , Jqhh)j0amden
Hotten, 187p),v hg-s^a'preface by the )latq.,!Lprd
Brougham) in' .which that eminent statesman
says:;— ' 1':i’f
“There is but one question I would ask the author, .is’
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to. our materialistic;
manufactm-ing; agfe f—No; • for - amidst itheWarietifes' of:
mind which divers piroumstaSicebipijodjiCe, are;four;d;
those who cultivate man’s highest (acuities,;-—to these
the author addresses himself. J But 'efen^iitthe most,
cloudless Skies of scepticism I see a raii>BI6ud,"if -itbeno
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern'- Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Glifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and Others like-them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. : He further offers a
reward of 1,000 -girineasto any ijespegtable, scien-;
tific or .educated. men; whq.:will.4nyestigate jthft.
subject and proye it to he an .imposture. The
following are hiq wordSjtyjY A
“ I now offer you two challenges... .
“ First, I challenge you, ,or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you) disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter Of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the’
hands, of any well-known London: banker, whom, you -or:
they may name, the sum of fiyp f.hundred-guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately, deposit in the same bank j
a like amount,—the ownership of such ‘sum'of one thou¬
sand guineas1 to depend upon my,proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice. ,
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and-inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Spcondly-LThal dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical-
agenpy, and-in defiance of ail the admitted laws of gravi-
tatipiv: .
' ' ‘VTHirdly—That voices'"appertkiniiig' to ho oue -inAili'e’
fl<lsh aref heard rt(j speak and; hold lational converse, with
men, ’
. “ A jury of twenty-foturgentlemeii, twelve to be ijhosep
by each party (such jury to consist-exclusively of mem¬
bers of . the learned professions andMiterary. men), to
decide whether. or not the- facte contained in the fib’ove
propositions are conclusively-proved.Tier testesfi#., by
witnesses, of established' eharatker. A-. majtirity -of
fjtne; twenty-four to. decide. -. If Hie'verdict, fie that these,
facts have not been established; tlie thbusand guineas
Are Yo belong to the party ajocepting'-this (ffiallenge; if
the verdict be that these ’ facts are. established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be'mine.
.. “ Secondly—Immediately, after the above wager being
decided, either way,.I offer a like ehallengo'of five huh-
dred guineas (tolbejnet on the!other sidednilike'manner
as-above)—the Ownership of the. second ..sum of one
thousand guineas to * depend tupon the' establishment of
the'-faetsfeontained in the propositions already given, py
experiments'conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
fdtfr gentlemen :'who have decided-the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this caselikewise.'
In either case, the seances are to be conducted m any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and'which may be available for the purpose. ■
“ The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated! party, in all the London daily
papers.' ; -
; “I hope this is plain English'.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
Servant, j " 1 " G-. Damiani. '
‘‘Clifton) Oct. 1, 1868.
“ P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West-of England and South Wales, District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hep worth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions) and this is about the lowest estimate’
that anybody has made.' There are no accurate sta¬
tistics,, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Sviritualists should understand that spirits
out of the hody are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
iusi the same as spirits in the hody. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. - The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
•possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
•see each otMr, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, itdossnot follow
tiial contradictor/} messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the'religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi-
vidudl spirits.
HOW TO FOBII-SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friehds and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
-medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will he no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this, way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for, every one successful
new circle thus started- without, a medium, there
are six or seven failures,, hut no accurate statistics
on this point have lyef been collected. When
once manifestations mave been obtained they .will
gradually increase in power'and rehability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
L Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arfahg&nients be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of 'the*circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the prSduction
of physical phenomena. • - - - i »r,,
:.2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals;
about the same.number of each .sex. Sit round'aii''ufiT
covered wooden table) with- ail the palms of the hands
in contact with its "top surface.’ Whether the ;hands
touch each other , or not:is' usually I of,no importance.-
Any table Will do, just large enough to conveniently'
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the'table tor d few secondsydoe's no harm,‘but whefi one
of tbe-sittefs-breaks ^the'-cirele-by leaving the -table it
sometimes,•’ but hot always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
. 3. Befoi-e the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and'some sheets'of’cieah,writing paper*on the
table,itol write down any communications that may be
^obtained. •
4l People who do not like each other should not sit’-ih*
'Hid sEme circle, for ’such a want of harmony tends'to
prevent iffiahifestatiohs,'toxe'ept with welLdeyeloped-
physical mediums; it is ;not yehknown why. “Bsfief or’
unbelief, has ,no influence, on the manifestations, tout "an
acrid fe'eling against them'is'a weakening influence, i j
-5. Before*the mahifes'fations begin, it is well'-to'engage
in geueraPconversation: or in singing, and it is toestthat
neither should be of. a frivolous nature.' A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of-the-circle'is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class'df spirits. '■
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The, first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps." 1 ■ • - • •..
• 7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid .confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk, to . the table as . to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that' three tilts or raps mean
,'“Yes;”-6he means “No,” and-two, mean “Doubtful,
and ask.whether the arrangement)is,understood. •••If.
three signals-he given in answer, then say, “If I'speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will yon signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell ns out a
message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
- 8: Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably, some members of the1 circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals .will be
afterwards strengthened.- Next'ask, - “^ho ris,the
medium ? ” When' spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known :to anybody present,^well-chosen
questions should;.be-put to •. test the accqra-cy'.oflthe
statements, as spirits out‘of the body have all,the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in'the body.', ■ f'f, t
Possibly at the'first'sitting) of a circle .symptoms
of other form s'of- mediurughip than tilts‘or raps
maymak i their appearance.
SPIRITUAL,-. STANCES are held every
' Friday ev^iing/atJ'l'5, Southampj;bnir6w, .Holbom1
•W.C.)at eight- o'clock., Mr.'J. JfMORSE,‘Medium. Ad-
missionOne.Shilling, ), ppp-if-c ^ ^• V;„
A "AiRON' FR'aNKLIN, PRESNSyER ’ OF
-A\_ ' BIItDS, ANIMALS, AND DELlNEATOBf OF
NATURE, Museums and private collebtipfas -attendedj
Britisband foreign birds’-skms, stags’ he^d§)‘fox’s heads,’,
■-slufile; rand hjJrAls in great variety, 7V/e, Sp irilualist andj
kindred periodicals, kept on sale. ^Established."1)547.
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.:
British imperial insurance
‘CORPORATION,. LIMITED. * .
'' FOR - EKKECTING '
BANKING LIFE. & SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES'
' ■ ON GOVERNMENT -SECURITIES. ", - '
Head Offices:- ■
Brown-street and Marsden-street,- Manchester.
. . : c- G :/) .TBraoicliOMees.. e
• ,-.••.-,20, King William-strqet,hLopdon/E.O.. "A :
1Yicfpi‘ia-buiidings,'^,,Remield-ktr'd6t,'Glasgow.
4, College-CTeetoUublin.
• 1, Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool
. ■93rPrmc.ess)-street,rEdinburgh.:,y
Marketrplace, Douglass, Islo .of Man. j
;' THE DISXINGlilSUIXCf FEATURES OF; THIS 6YSTCit>&lpS:
- 'll provides :Ooverhment.-Security for. the X'ife Fthtmium
Funds. !
AH tbe Premiums (with.the-'exception of one-fifth tor
Expenses, of Management, Reserve, and Bonuses) .are
invested in the Names of Trustees," for-the. sole purpose
of.meetingPolicy claims. These Trustees.ac< indepen¬
dently of the Directors'. •
‘.This form of- Security is strictly defined bythe General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorse : on each Policy
andpayable on demand.
, From50.to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ae
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
cantoe obtained'oiv.deraand by Insurants desirous,of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing" their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose,, without
sacrificing their Policy jittes using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
■ Insurants, desirous of ceasirfg premium paying,-, and,
npt wishing to withdraw their “ Surrender-values'', can.
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies,-'for the',‘w/(dfe
amount, of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former'
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who, have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum tor which .they
are insured, can have a “ Paid-up ” Poli6y for phi full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in.exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To thfe
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr,-F.R.S., &c., &c., London..’ General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Dkries,'Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lbthian-road, North
Brixton.
TOSEPH BARKER’S' NEW WORKS.
Just Published,
THE RIGHTEOUS AND THEIR POR¬
TION. ■ Price Twopence. ' »
THE GREAT/ FIGHT BETWEEN. CHRIS.-.
. TIANITY/! ANDtINFIDELITY; ISTiioh ShaU.Oon-,
qjier?) Frige Twopence. t . •
LOYE AND MARRIAGE; or, The Way
, to Domestic Happme-ss;*,Price.Twopence. .. . . , '
THE TRINITY OF CHRISTIAN GRACES;
Price Twopencei 4 ■ 'u . erl’i ;
UNITARIANISM; What Claims has it^to
Respect and Favour. Price, in Wrapper, Sixpence.
FAITH IN GOD ; The Grounds, on WSich
it Rests, and the .Influence it is .Calculated to Exfiri
on ijie Heart and Life; of Man;, ; ■
London:' Beveridge'&)Fraser,Fullwood’s-rents. •
Holborn,' WiC.t | ||p| ^
On the first of 'every motfth.
THE TRUTHSEE-KER, a Review
devoted ‘to 'the^advobacy' of ‘ reverehtyfifee
.thought in matteiS'pertaining, to,•Religion.” .'Edited'Yiy
the Rev. J. PAGE, HOPPS. • Price)ThreepenceF‘:’,tT B
London: Triibner and Oo., 60, Paterhostorrrow. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Hey wood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
HEATEN OPENED; or, MESSAGES
for the BEREAVED from our LITTLE- ONES
IN GLORY. Through the mediumship of F. ^JMi.vMith
observations by Mrs. De Morgan., . te. neaj(,/clqtn,3!.s.))':Ih
enamel wrapper,_6d. London: J. Bd'rns)Uo, Sbuthamp-
ton-'row, Bloomsbury, W.C.'' 1
Foolscap Svo.,< .cloth: " Published^, at 3s;, now offered at
- r < 2s.; post;free, 2s. 3d.
THE‘MENTAL CURE : illustrating the
• Influence of the Mind bn the Body, both'in Health
and Disease, and the Psychological Method 6f Treatment,
by-Plev. W. F: EvAns,-author of “ The’ Celestial Dawm”
The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messenger)”
, &c., &c., &c)",
■ .The design'of this Treatiseus to explainthe'nature and
laws of the inner life*oi:,man, ’anjd ,to.' cofatribute "sonj0
•ligbjt onjthe subjqctpf Mental Hygiene, which is beginning
.to. asqnme importance in tile, treahneht'of, disease, and to
attract' the attention oi 'physioiofefete. ‘•Thfe atfthdr has
faimed'-"tp‘'illustfat'e: - the ict>rf<5spon'dfent!e*'Of ‘.(the soul and
body,thejr mutual action and reaction, and to demonstrate
,.tlie casual-relation of.djsordered mental states to diseased
physiblb'g.i'cal', action,: and the importance and mode of
regelating the intellectual (ind affeetional nature of the
invalid uuder any stystenr qf mep t al treatment. -
- ■ Gmsgow:. James M/Gcachi, 89)’>'trnion-stre'et..
■.304 pp.; 8vo; cloth gilt, price 5s^ post free.
LYRIG. OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
^5’homas L. Harris. * ' . :
fBMWiftj'CttTr'-'’ John Tnomson, 39, John-stree't,
 —-—; ; .■;/'
Nffifmid Chsaspcr-Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
■ Volume. Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 12s. (id.
E' MANUEL SWEDENBORG: HIS
LIFE''AND WRITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. "Wherein the History, thb'Doctrines) and
the-otheriworld Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfuHy.(set forth.;" also-the singular Origin
and Condition jif. the Swedehborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated witK_ Four Steel Engravings, by Mri-C.-
H/Jeehs—1 -Jiespei Svedberg, Bishdp'Ydf Skara ,:.,;II.
Emafiu’eDfS-w-edeifborg,r 'aged ;46.**-III. -Swedenborg’s
House, Stqekhohn. lY. Swedenborg, agedw);.’
' “ It is by the profusion of his extracts, the honesty of
his comment#, and the picturesque detail with which he
crowds his pages, that Mr. White at once captivates
attention. The work may he described as a long ex¬
haustive gossip' about Swedenborg, his writings and his
disciples; pleasant thoughtful gossip from a mind which
impresses you; as being kindly and truthful - above the
common. We",can with confidence assure thoughtful
readers that there is more to interest them in Mr. White’s
biography than in-any work of the-yeaf whose professed
object is to entertain:”—Pall MctUfGqzette. ;
‘f -1 . - Londonii Simpkin, 'Marshall and Cp."
The ‘;iiisE and progress ' OF
Spiritualism in'England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently publishfed in k thh' (Spiiafualisti reprinted in
pamphlet form, on tbneji;paper, with eqlqtired wrapper.
The'discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may he had at one shilling' each) of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-laney E.C., and‘-rafe; of- especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
A NTHROPOLOGY.—The June number of
-Cjl. The Spiritualist contains a report of a discussion
on Spiritualism, which recently took place at the Anthro¬
pological Institute . Price 3d. or 3M. post free. London
E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
____ArTTTT1TmT„1VT „„ oriTTtTm i YB1HE SPIRITUALIST.—No. 1 of The
EXHIBITION OF SPIRIT DRAWINGS Spiritualist contains an overwhelming weight of
evidence for the general public,, as to the truth and
reality of Spiritual phenomena. No. 13 contains the
leading arguments in favour of and against the theory
that the manifestations are due to Satanic agency
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
JEU in WATER COLOURS, by Miss Houghton.—
NEW BRITISH GALLERY, 39, Old Bond-street, Picca¬
dilly. Open daily from 10 a.m. till 6 p.m. Admission Is.
Catalogue Is.
ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN¬
QUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
ESSRS, HERNE AND WILLIAMS,
Spirit Medimhs, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private seances from !2
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive:
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.C. ■
R. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAR, at his Musical Academy,, 134; Penton-
ville Road, N., or at. the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
bn application.
'“A‘ Violin Solo (comique), entitled ‘ .Echoes,’ per-
•formed. by Mr. T. R. Mason. It. consisted of Echoes of.
London, Echoes of, the Christy Minstrels, arid Imita¬
tions'of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle,
aTmitents.
Spiritualism at the British Association:—Professor
Allen Thomson on Spiritualism—Professor Tait
on Spiritualism—Professor Stokes on Spiritual¬
ism-Report on. Mr. Crookes’s Paper—Conclud¬
ing Remarks   V.. ...  185
Farewell Conversazione in honour of Mrs. Emma
Hardinge   ...    ... 186
Other World Order ;1188
Spirit-rapping in John Wesley’s Family.—Part IX. , 189
Spiritualism and the Newspapers   _ ... ......189
Pobtey:—-Eternal Punishment ... .1; 190
Correspondencb : — Bishop Berkeley^ - Teachings:
—Spiritualism and Culture—Spiritualismt ■at
Home—Mr: Crookes’s Experiments—Spirit Life' 190
Where is the Spirit World?.... ... .... .... ... ;;.V 191
Dr. Balfour. Stewart bn Spirituahsm ... ,i. 191
Mr. Crookes and the Royal Society : ... I... , 191
Answersto-Coerespondenfs .... 189
Printed tor,the.Proprietor by, Beyeridge v& Fraser,
’. .at Jfthe .Holhorn Printing Works,, Fullwbod’s Rents,
High Holborh, :in the-Parish of St.jAhdrew-aboye-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
’ hy E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C •
