[BeGistered as a Newspaper.
&]\f©
r.cr«mjr^!£r toitlj Spirifnalbm m ($xmt gnfahr.
THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 193.—■—(VOL. VIII.—No. 18.) LONDON : FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Speculations tending to Explain certain Spiritual Mani¬
festations. By William H. Harrison     205
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances:—Moulding a Spirit Foot under
Test Conditions   ...  206
Cornish Spiritualism:—Mr. Hawker and Morwenstow—
His Belief in Angelic Ministry—Mr. Hawker’s Relations
■with Occult Science—The Evil Eye—The Lighter Side of
His Character   ... ... ' 207
The Dalston Association of Spiritualists:—Seances under
Test Conditions 209
“ Old Truths in a New Light ”    210
Brixton Psychological Society:—What is the Use of Spirit¬
ualism?—Men and Animals in the Next World—A
Phantom Woman and a Remarkable Cat 210
Miss Lottie Fowler’s Physical Seances:—Cabinet Manifes¬
tations under the Eyes of Observers 211
Provincial News:—Newcastle, Seance at Weirs Court; The
Weirs Court Meetings—A Persecuted Preacher  211
Poetry:—“With April—Alone!”  212
Correspondence:—Spiritual Vision developed by Mes¬
merism—Individuality—The Solution of Public Mys¬
teries—The Scattergood Testimonial; Postponement of
the Meeting—A Strange Story; Searching for Husbands
—Observation of Frivolous Manifestations not Cultiva¬
tion thereof—Physical Manifestations at Islington—
Spiritualism and Berkeleyism—Spiritualism in Lan¬
cashire—Publius Syrus—The Clairvoyance of the Blind
—Progress in Spirit Life..;  212
Dewdrops from the Spirit Land:—A Spirit Message
through the Mediumship of a Lady     ... 216
ParagraphsSpirit People,” 209; Alleged Elementary
Spirits, 211; Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces, 211; Na¬
tional Association Allied Societies, 211; A Diabolical
Romance, 216; Tragical Results of Hallucination, 216;
Odic Flames from Magnets  216
Cfo Sttiritalist
’Established in 1869.
pHAEGE FOE ADVEETISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement! Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications lor the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C. 
A mm DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.  
X> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyeho-
JLAl logiquos, fpnde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie. 
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ye. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Oapucines, Paris. 
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851 —
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Ohancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS BAYENSCROFT, Manager.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT^
UALIS H EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Sihbkin, Marshai l & Co.
Reduced to Half-price!
gERMONS by T. L. HARRIS. Londoa Series.
Containing—I.—Modern Spiritualism.
II.—Heart Wants of London.
III.—Christ Incarnate.
IV.—Liberty and Progress.
In limp cloth binding, 6d.; free by post, 7d.
John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow, and Mrs. Connor,
16, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council:
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, ’ Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Hmorary Secretary and Treasurer:—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can !only be admitted to the ordinary seance
leld on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to\special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of hooks in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarteily 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for May, 1876.
Wednesday, 3rd.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell-street, at 6.30 p.m
Music, conversation, and Refreshments. Open
to Members and Friends. Admission Is.
Thursday, 4fA—Mrs. Olive’s Private Seance, at 38, Great
Russell-street, at 2 p.m. Public Seance at
4 p.m.
Friday, 5th.—Seance for Inquirers, Mr. W. Eglinton medium,
at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 0th.—Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m,
„ Council Meeting at 6.3o p.m.
Thursday, 11th.—Mrs. Olive’s Private Seance, at 38, Great
Russell-street, at 2 p.m. Public Seance at
4 p.m.
Friday, 12th.—Seance Committee at 6.30 p.m. Seance for In¬
quirers, Mr. W. Eglinton, medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 10th.—Provincial Societies Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Thursday, 10th.—Mrs. Olive’s Private Seance, at 38, Great
Russell-street, at 2 pm. Public Seance at
4 p m.
Friday, 10th.—Seance for Inquirers, Mr. W. Eglinton medium,
at 7.30 p.m,
Tuesday, 23rd.—Prize Essay Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ Aneual General Meeting of Members,
. at 6.30.
Friday, 20th.—Soiree Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
,, Seance for Inquirers, Mr. W. Eglinton medium,
at 7.30 p.m.
The offices of the National Association, including a Library
and Reading Room, are at 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, entrance in Woburn-street. Friends wishing to join the
Association, or local societies wishing to become allied, are
requested to communicate with the Resident Secretary, Miss
Kislingbury, of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules, J
and other information, can he had on application,
East London spiritual meetings.--
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman's
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses .every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
SOUTH LONDON ASSOCIATION OF
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. List of meetings
during the week: Sunday, Trance or other Address at Seven;
Monday, Discussion and Conversational Meeting at Eight;
Tuesday, Developing Circle, at Eight, members only; Thurs
day, Seance at Eight, members only; Fiiday, Seance at Eighf,
members only; Saturday, Seance at Eight, non-members, 3d
Members Is. per quarter, and 2d. on attending a Seance. Any
further information can he obtained at the rooms on any
evening. J. Burton, Bon.'Secretary.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, .Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
ST. MATTHEW’S, SPRING GARDENS
(near Charing-oross station). On the Sundays after
Easter a COURSE OF SERHONS will be preached by tte
Rev. Maurice Davies, D.D., on “The Apparitions of Christ
during the Great Forty Days; ” with special reference to their
hearing on the future that awaits us. Subjects—
1. April 23rd.—Tbe Apparitions to the Women. The Nature
of the Resurrection-Body. Woman's Faith and Love.
2. April 30th.—On the Emmaus Road. Man’s Despondency.
The Change in the Risen Body.
3. May 7th.—To the Ten. The Message of Peace to a Broken
Circle.
4. May 14th.—To the Eleven. The Doubter convinced. The
Believer blessed.
5. May 21st.—On the Sacred Beach. Links with the Past,
Loving Provisions for the Future.
6. May 28th.—On the Mount of Ascension. Last Farewells
Service commences at a quarter-past Eleven.
S. Flood Jones, M.A., Incumbent.
Price Is. OJd., post free.
Marriage law injustice. An ex¬
posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Binney.
Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 3, Bond-street.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu’ation is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
MRS. WOODFORDE begs to announce her
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE to 8,Milton-Btreet, Dorset-
squaie (near Baker-street Station), where she will be glad to
welcome, as of old, all friends and visitors. Physical seances
with two first-class mediums, will be held as usual, every Thurs¬
day and Saturday evenings. Usual manifestations—direct
voice, direct writing, and materialisations (if conditions serve)
of the friends of visitors, also a new materialised musical in¬
strument, played (it is said by Blondel) with remarkable skill
in accompaniment of the musical box. Especial invitations
will he issued for the Saturday evenings, and an introduction
from some well-known Spiritualist is requested fur the Thurs¬
day evenings. All friends who have been in the habit of
attending Mrs. Woodforde’s seances will always be welcome.
Admission, 6s.
Mrs. Woodfordo is also open to engagements for private
physical seances to he held at her own residence; a few days
previous notice must he given. Names will be received for a
daylight seance to he held shortly. With pleasant rooms
open to her visitors, and every effort made to obtain superior
manifestations, Mrs. Woodforde hopes to afford those who
will honour her with their presence, some most agreeable and
satisfactory seances.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, .HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family, party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernard •
villas, Upper Norwood.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 5, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice ■ Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Caltler, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
’oleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Korwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Uerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlll, Balaam, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., B2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Bamsay, Mrs., 4(i, Bryanston-square, AV.
Smith, Martin B., Heathlands, AVimbledon-common, S.AV.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road,Einchley-road, If.AV'.
AVason, James, AVason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, AV. P., Derby House, Belper.
Arinfield, AAr. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., Xew AVandsworth, S.AA’’.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 203, Brixton-road, S.AV.
Bassett, AV. E., I, King Edward-st, Liverpool-road, Islington, X.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Binney, E A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, AAr.
Colley, Eev. Tlios., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Bussell-strcet, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, B., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Kcwton, Lynton-lodge, A'anbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, H. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, AAr.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. ft., 7, Oberstein-road, New AVandsworth, S.AV.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AV.
Fitton, B, 34, AValnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Bri'xton, SW.
Fitz-Gerakl, Mrs. D. G., 6, Longhborough-road, North Brixtou,
S.AV.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Bye-terrace, Peckham Bye, S.E.
Gale, Bichard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull,
ftarper, Bobert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Hindo, Thos., 4, Cobden-strect, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, AAr.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, AVest-end, Doddington-grove, Kenningtou-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, AAr.
Isiiam, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Nortliampton.
Iviiney, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AAL
James, Capt,, 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.T C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3. Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.AV.
Mawson, AVm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Gosweli-road, E.C.
Meers, AV. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. AVarwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Bichmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.E.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Begent’s
Park., N.AV.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Bogers, E. Dawson, Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. AV. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lahe, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Arersailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Mavgaret's-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, B M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. MS 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, B. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. \V.
Wedgwood, Hensleign, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
AVhito, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 8, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.AV.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
With all. Miss IL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, AVimbledon-common, S.AV.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,.
London, AV.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de 1’Empereur Bussie, Nieder AValluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
rVhmed Bassim Pacha, Khan de Bassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. AVittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The fton. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M, Gustave de Veh,26, Avenue des Cliamps-Eiysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The fton. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Ilammonton, Atlantic Co,,New Jersey,U.S.A.
3Irs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Boi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Rikq, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Dnimmoud-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty', Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H, Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Lcipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
Hi T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Olinton-aYenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
.<}. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Veruon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vcrnon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Xuther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunliut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary'.
Dr. A. E. Nahrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Dayq Esq., 9, Montgomery'-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. B. ftallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, ftereford-road, Bayswater,. W.
■Signor Damiani, Salita Ponteeorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary'—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society', Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary'.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Bly'ton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road. Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. O. Emery, St. Mary-
street, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver-
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at Home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb's Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 90, Great Russell- street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Noticb.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 90, Great Russell-
sireet, Bloomsbury, W.C.
T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, v iihin a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tyne mouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including speeiflea.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
■'VTOTIOE'. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, I uesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W, To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock,
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. Jones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
mmAuditors.—Mr. H. J. Charleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With tilvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
Fuenishino Undertakers, Oaeeiage Proprietors, &o
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
SQUARE, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
npHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
ESMERISM, ELECTRO-BIOLOGY,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES R1GG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlels and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON is about to
make a tour in the provinces. Friends or societies
wishing to engage him should address him at once for vacant
dates. Address, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James's House,
Walthamstow E.
SS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambuli t, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Horn s. I till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. Cd. Physical
seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings
at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspon¬
dence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbnry-square, London, W.C.
Mediumship ; its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor-
maiion for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for Ijd.; or six copies post free
for fid.
P-SYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. fid.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
W.O.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in
accordance with patient's means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
Just Published price 10s. 5d.
THE MECHANISM OF MAN; An Answer
to the Question, “ What am I? ” A Popular Introduc¬
tion to Psychology and Mental Physiology. By Edward W.
Cox, Serjeant-at-Law, President of the Psychological Society
of Great Britain. Vol. I., The Mechanism. Contents—-Parti,
Introductory; Part 2, The Mechanism; Part 8, The Forces
that Move and Direct the Mechanism—Life, Mind, Soul.
London: Longmans and Co.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fei tile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Vojl.ujvie Eiqht. Number .EJiqhteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY Bth, 1876.
SPECULATIONS TENDING TO EXPLAIN CERTAIN
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
After attending some hundreds of materialisation seances
with different mediums, under all kinds of conditions, it has
become evident to me that on certain occasions there has
been actual duplication of form; that is to sa}r, that
while the entranced medium has been in one place, an active
and intelligent temporarily materialised being, having to a
large extent the features of the unconscious medium, and
robed in white, has been moving about close at hand. If all
the evidence to prove this point were collected, the case
would be a very strong one, but space will not permit. On
the present occasion I will merely repeat that once at
a circle I had tight hold of Mr. Williams, as he sat by my
side all through a seance, and high up, over the table, John
King was floating, carrying his light in his hand ; he illumi¬
nated his features with it, so that I clearly saw his eyes spark¬
ling, his lips moving, and I heard him speak at the time that
they moved. At the moment this clear bright view of him
was obtained, with nothing dubious about it, his elbow was
higher than the top of my head. I was holding the hand
of Mr. Williams, whose elbow was alongside mine on the
table, and his feet were touching mine. At the great majority
of materialisation seances, there has been no evidence
whether actual materialisation has taken place or not, for at
many sittings mediums are not subjected to absolute test
conditions: and if they are subjected to certain test condi¬
tions, such as tying their hands behind their backs, sewing
their sleeves together with cotton, and sealing the knots,
the abnormal power about them can release them from such
bonds in the twinkling 'of an eye, and after the sitting is
over, they will be found secured as at the first. This in
itself seems somewhat miraculous. The fact was well tested
through the mediumship of Mrs. Compton, in America.
While she was seated in a cabinet, she was secured in every
possible way, even to tacking the skirts of her dress to the
floor, and sealing the heads of the tacks after her hands and
arms had been tied up. Shortly afterwards, a figure, robed
in white, came out: several of the sitters were invited to
enter the cabinet, and found nothing in it; yet afterwards,
Mrs. Compton was found secured as at first. This tends to
show that although nothing visible was in that cabinet, yet
some invisible form resembling that of Mrs. Compton must
have been there, which form, when reclothed with matter,
disclosed her bound as at first. Not the slightest reliance
can be placed upon the statements of most of the . spirits
who produce these manifestations, and observers should
believe nothing they cannot prove for themselves.
I may begin to set forth the explanatory ideas I
have in my mind, by speaking of the materialisation
of a spirit-hand. I assume that what we call (i matter ”
consists merely of surface effects with an infinity of
phenomena beneath ; for although the now prevalent
scientific idea that matter consists of the infinitely rigid
particles of Dalton, or of Sir William Thomson’s vortex
atoms formed of an infinitely elastic fluid, is useful in
physical research, all analogy and past experience tend to
show that as knowledge increases, our ideas of the extent of
the universe, atoms included, will have to be widened. The
ancient Jews, like the physicists of to-day, had a tendency
to limit the universe to that which was known to themselves.
They considered the earth to be a small plain, on which
they existed as a people specially chosen of God, with small
brilliant objects in the firmament above, known as the sun,
moon, and stars, which were put there for the sole purpose
of giving light to them. Hence in a speculative argument
like the present, I assume that physicists are very far from
j ! having reached the limits of the knowable, in relation to the
| | fundamental constitution of matter.
i | Let us then suppose what we know and see of the human
||| hand to be the result of an infinity of underlying phe-
if i nomena, comprising a certain amount of energy which we
|) i will define by the number ten. I assume that when a spirit-
| I hand first begins to form, say twelve inches from the hand
| | of the medium, by means of will power or some unknown
j 1 process, the controlling intelligence abstracts say one part
j|| of energy from every portion of the medium’s hand, thus
|) I leaving nine. This first stage in the creation of a spirit-
|) | hand I assume to produce an actual hand, invisible to
111 the human eye, yet capable of producing certain material
| I effects. I think that although it might dissolve and return
|) | whence it came, if it attempted to touch another human
| I organism, not of the same nature as that of the medium, yet
| j | it could lay hold of inanimate matter and move a table.
|) | One sitter at a circle, usually a sympathetic mesmeric sensi-
111 five, will sometimes feel the grasp of a hand where nothing
| (| is to be seen, and nobody else will see or feel anything. I
j | assume that this spirit-hand containing one, instead of ten
111 parts of energy, may be able to touch another person whose
m “influence”—as Spiritualists and mesmerists call it—is in
| | harmony with that of the medium.
I further assume that in the process of further material-
| | ising a spirit-hand spirits can, by will-power, or by other
| | means, abstract more and more energy of different kinds,
| (| but in unaltered relative proportion, from every part of the
I | hand of the medium, until say five proportions of energy are
| | left in the hand of the medium, and five proportions are. in
I | the spirit hand. At this stage both hands ought to be
| i palpable, visible hands to the spectators. Here I think we
| | have the duplication of form—that delicate state of balance
111 of conditions which has existed on the few occasions when
| | the medium and the spirit^have been seen at the same time.
| | Carrying this idea still further, I think that the power at
| | the root of the phenomenon can go on abstracting energy
! | from the hand of the medium until at last we have, say,
| | nine parts of energy in the spirit-hand, and only one left in
j) I the hand of the medium. At such a stage as this—Which
| i as yet has only been reached in total darkness—the hand of
111 the medium ought to be invisible, whilst the spirit-hand is
|) I densely materialised. This may be the condition of things
111 when mediums are released from bonds. If so, when Mrs.
i j Compton is out of the cabinet, the materialised form con-
111 tains eight or nine parts of the assumed ten parts of energy
111 normally comprised in her body; while the form thus made
| (| is walking about the room, the remaining one or two parts
| j | are not palpable to mortal senses, yet are in the cabinet, and
111 perhaps keeping the tapes and seals in their proper position.
I I An invisible woman is there ; her dress in an invisible form
i||| is there; the knots and seals are intact, but perhaps in-
111 visible, and after the form outside the cabinet reunites with
II i the one inside, the circumstance that the one inside has been
III there all the time accounts for the knots and seals and other
111 fastenings of a delicate nature, being discovered at the end
m of the seance exactly as they were at first.
m These ideas, I think, also explain how—while the hand of
Kj a medium is held in darkness—a welded iron ring with no
m joint in it is frequently threaded on to his arm. It will be
i)| remembered how M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, in a good
I | light, grasped the hand of Mr. Williams, then tied his own
jL hand to that of the medium with tape. There were no
||| rings on either of their arms; the light was put out, and
111 shortly afterwards the ring was threaded upon their arms,
m M. Aksakof, who had never loosened his grasp of the hand
II j of Mr. Williams, took the ring and the tape back with him
| | to Russia, to show that there was no trickery in the material
Ui means employed. Many others have had experience of a
May 5, 1876.
206
THE SPIRITUALIST.
similar kind at spirit circles. Now, if we assume that when
M. Aksakof ^ook the hand of Mr. Williams, John King j;
began to form a spirit hand (which he always does to produce h
dark circle manifestations), as he took portion after portion j!
of energy away from the arm of the medium, so did it |j
become more and more impalpable. The medium’s hand h
was still a material one to the touch of M. Aksakof, but i
hig’her up, between the wrist and the shoulder, it might have I
become so spiritualised, that could light have been admitted j
at the moment, no arm at all would have been seen there, |
although a proportion of the vital invisible forces composing j
it had not been removed ; thus the threading on of the iron |
ring became possible. Mr. Crookes and Mr. Blackburn i
once tied tape tightly round the neck of Miss Florence |
Cook, and sealed it with a signet ring. The ends of the |
tape were then tied round one of the steps of Mr. Crookes’ |
library ladder, and sealed. The instant they left the cabinet j
Miss Cook was free, nothing but the sealed loops of the :
tape remaining. The ideas put forth in this article will serve !
to explain bow these results might have have been pro- j
duced.
From what has been said it will be seen that it is assumed :
that spirits can abstract energy from all parts of inanimate ;
objects, as well as from human beings; that dresses, for |
instance, can be thus duplicated. Let us now suppose that |
when the ninth part of energy has been abstracted from an i
object, forming a kind of spirit of it, that ninth can be \l
carried invisibly to a distant spirit-circle, with some con- i
necting link existing between it and the original object. !
As the spirits abstract more energy from the one, and put I
it into the other, that which was originally invisible |
becomes solid, and that which was solid disappears; thus |
the article is moved from place to place, doors and inter- i
vening objects forming no obstacle to its passage. And if !
it be said that in this speculation I assume that energy in jj
some form passes through solid matter without visibly j
affecting it, I reply that the case is not exceptional, for, if I
you develop a photographic plate in a magnetic field strong |
enough to uphold several tons of iron, that large amount of jj
magnetism passing through a plane where such delicate jj
chemical reactions are going on, does not affect the develop- j
ment in the least, so far as I have been able to see, and I j
have made the experiment with frequency.
The ideas just set forth as to the philosophy of a portion j
of the process whereby materialised forms are produced at j
spirit circles, may possibly be susceptible of experimental j
verification. For instance, if energy is withdrawn in the j
assumed manner from the hand of the medium, a decrease of j
vital action will probably take place in that hand, which j
decrease can be measured in various ways. If there is a j
diminution in the flow or volume of blood in the hand, in- jj
struments have been devised by physiologists for registering j
such changes ; if, again, there is diminution of heat, it can j
be registered by means of one of Siemens’ fine resistance jj
coils, and the changes of temperature can be read off from j
minute to minute, by means of a reflecting galvanometer in j
another room. The changes in the temperature of the j
blood of sick people have been recorded in this way, by placing j
one of the little coils under one of their armpits, and it causes jj
them no discomfort whatever. Possibly by some of these j
means, when a ninth of the total energy has been abstracted jj
from the hand of a medium to form a spirit hand, the in- j
struments would show the change which had taken place, j
long before the spirit hand itself became visible to the eye. jj
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace, in his book, Miracles, and jj
Modern Spiritualism, describes a seance with Miss Nichol, j
better known as Mrs. Guppy, in which a wine glass was j
apparently duplicated; if not, another wine glass must have j
been brought into the circle by the spirits. Mr. Wallace jj
says:— j
“We now sent for a single wine glass, which was placed on the jj
floor between Miss Nichol and her father, and we requested it might . jj
be struck. After a short time it was gently tapped, producing a clear jj
ringing sound. This soon changed to a sound as if two glasses were jj
gently struck together ; and now we were all astonished by hearing in j j
succession almost every possible sound that could be produced by two jj
glasses, one inside the other, even to the clang of one dropped into jj
another. They were in every respect identical with such sounds as we j j
could produce with two glasses, and with two only, manipulated in a jj
variety of ways, and yet I was quite sure that only one wine glass was
in the room, and every person’s hands were distinctly visible on the
table.
“We now took up the glass again, and put it on the table, where it
was held both by Miss N. and Mr. Humphreys, so as to prevent any
vibration it might produce. After a short interval of silence an
exquisitely delicate sound as of tapping a glass was heard, which
increased to clear silvery notes like the tinkling of a glass bell. These
continued in varying degrees for some minutes, and then became
fainter, and gradually died away.”
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
MOULDING A SPIRIT FOOT UNDER TEST CONDITIONS.
On Friday, the 28th April, one of these seances was held
at 38, Great Russell-street. The medium was Mr. Willie
Eglinton, and the sitters were Capt. James, Hr. Garter
Blake, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. A. Yacher, F.C.S., Mrs. C , Miss Kis-
lingbury, Mr. St. George Stock, M.A., and myself on behalf
of the Seance Committee.
It had been intimated by Joey” (the spirit) that he
would endeavour to obtain moulds in paraffin by immers¬
ing repeatedly into this material, when fused, some portion
of a materialised spirit-form. Two pounds of paraffin had
been obtained, and, under the direction of Mr. Yacher, this
was melted and poured on the surface of boiling water con¬
tained in a pail. As paraffin has a specific gravity of only
•87, and fuses at 110*7 deg. Fahr., this plan renders a layer
of the melted material available during a considerable period
of time. The pail with its contents was placed at one side
of the cabinet, together with a foot bath containing cold
water (for the purpose of cooling the several layers of
paraffin constituting a “mould”), and the medium was
secured to a cane-seated arm-chair at the side. The tying,
by means of tape, was very thoroughly done by Mr. Joy and
Dr. Blake, the medium’s hands and legs being bound
together, and to the chair, to which, in addition, he was
attached by the neck.
It is to be noted that after the medium was secured, his
right foot was put forward as far as the length of the tape
would allow, and when the curtains of the cabinet were
drawn they were so arranged that the foot remained in view.
Now this foot, or rather, to speak with a degree of accuracy
which may be necessary in describing physical seances, the
hoot, which undoubtedly enclosed it when the seance com¬
menced, remained in view during the whole time until its
close. Some of the sitters, including myself, contented
themselves with observing it occasionally, not thinking that
its protrusion was intentional; but, at the close of the seance,
I obtained the testimony of four of the sitters that they had
kept it in view, without more than a few seconds’ intermis¬
sion during the whole of the time. It may be further men¬
tioned that the medium wore side-spring boots and woollen
socks; that, in the judgment of those present, the removal
of these articles by the medium himself, without detection,
was, under the circumstances, quite out of the question ; and
that at one period the foot was slightly agitated, as though
the medium were convulsed.
Shortly after the commencement of the seance, Joey gave
us to understand that the two “ windows” of the cabinet
were to be opened, the temperature having no doubt risen
considerably within the enclosed place. When the seance
had lasted about forty minutes, a slight splashing sound was
repeatedly heard, as though something had been plunged
into the contents of the pail. At the expiration of about an
hour, Joey said, “ You may come in now: we have given a
test of our own, and have done our best; but we don’t know
whether it will be satisfactory to you.”
On entering the cabinet, I observed that the medium was
bound precisely as he was at the commencement of the sit¬
ting, and that two “ moulds” were floating in the cold water
contained in the foot-bath. These moulds were opened out
at the top, and somewhat distorted; it was evident that in
each case they had enclosed a right foot. Plaster of Paris
casts of the anterior portions, and also of the heel portions,
were then taken by Mr. Yacher, assisted by Dr. Blake; and
from these casts it appears that the moulds were obtained
from one and the same foot. It is to be noted that the
texture of the skin was very clearly exhibited upon the inner
surface of the moulds. Dr. Blake proposes, I believe, to
May 5, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
compare the casts with the foot of the medium ; which, upon I j
any hypothesis, they may very possibly resemble. j jj
I had to cut the medium’s bonds, as I found it quite im- jj
possible to untie them. I can certify that his position and ||j
the mode in which he was secured were the same at the close j>|
of the seance as at the commencement. ! i
Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, M. S. Tel. E., 11
For the Seance Committee. j / i
COKNISH SPIRITUALISM.
The Vicar of Morwenstow. A Life of Robert Stephen Hawker, M.A. i)i
By S. Baring-Gould, M.A. 1876. |(
Memorials of the late Rev. R. S. llaioker, Vicar of Morwenstow. |ji
By the Rev. F. G-. Lee. 1876.
In the secluded districts of England, where the paralysis j j
of material civilisation has not penetrated, there exists |
among the simple and spiritual-minded country-folk a natural I j
inborn Spiritualism which is infinitely charming. It is true |
that a scientific age, wise in its own conceits, would call its I j
manifestations survivals of superstition, and would cor- j !
relate them possibly with lingering myths among the j(j
savages of the South Sea. They are, indeed, cognate; jjj
whispers in either case of spirit not wholly clogged by the j j
body. It is true, too, that the simple souls know nothing jj|
of the development of modern Spiritualism, have not even |jj
seen a spirit-light, except perhaps a stray gleam that has j(j
flitted over some fresh grave, have never seen a li materialised jjj
form,” except that of some visitor, which, in their sim- iji
plicity, they believe to be that of “the angel whom I
they have entertained unawares.” But they have a real and j(j
abiding belief in the nearness of the spirit-world and of the j j
intercommunion of its inhabitants with us. And this belief, j j
as these volumes show, is by no means confined to the Ijj
ignorant peasant, but is shared by an educated and cultured j^j
man like the subject of these memoirs.
Mr. Hawker, who for forty years discharged the duties of jj
Vicar of Morwenstow with apostolic simplicity and large- j j
heartedness, made a notorious name for himself by apostatis- jjj
ing on his death-bed from the Church he had served so well, ijj
These volumes are full of polemical debate as to the cause of j j
that secession, and doubt is suggested whether the old man’s jjj
last moments were not vexed by the proselytising zeal of a ijj
young wife. That concerns us little. The unsavoury theo- i- j
logical squabble! may well give place to the indications of jjj
spiritual belief which we glean from the pages of two writers jjj
who are little heedful of their presence.
MR. HAWKER AND MORWENSTOW.
The man and the place were congenial to each other and j j
to the invisible world. His portrait shows him a fine, id
massive figure, with broad good-humoured face and sparkling ijj
eye—the face of a man of energy, the eye of a poet and an j j
orator—the long white hair streaming back from a wide and jjj
high forehead, and the burly form clad in a garb at once iji
unique and picturesque. He would have no black about him ijj
but his boots; black, he said, was the devil’s colour; so he jjj
put on a fisher’s jersey of dark blue with crimson cross jjj
embroidered on the spot where the Lord’s side was pierced, ijj
over this a long claret-coloured coat or cassock, and a wide- jj
brimmed hat to match. Long fishermen’s boots completed jjj
the attire, and picturesque enough the old man must have j j
looked as he breasted the Atlantic breezes in his rocky jjj
Cornish parish. ijj
The place was like the man, natural, unconventional, full jj
of rough crags, and nooks of pure simple beauty. The coast j j
from Tintagel tp Hartland is magnificent. The iron-bound jjj
face of it is for ever lashed by the restless Atlantic. The jjj
roar can be heard ten miles inland; the swell comes un- jj;
broken from Labrador, to hurl itself against the coast, and ijj
be shivered into foam on its iron cuirass. “ Twice,” said a jjj
friend who dwells near, “ twice in sixteen years has the sea j i
been calm enough to reflect a passing sail.” The ocean has j j
no milder moods here; it is emphatically “ the cruel sea,” a jjj
hungry, insatiate monster, hankering after human lives, jjj
brooded over by wind and fog, half hidden by the lowering jjj
clouds that rest upon its bosom. The coast itself is encircled jjj
by huge crags, spires of splintered rock, in the crevices of jjj
which rare plants nestle, and at the foot of which the ocean j j
has scooped out caverns which have become the home of the ijj
seal and the haunt of wild sea-birds. Far away, as far as
the eye can reach, broken only by Lundy Isle on the horizon,
stretches the blue Atlantic. Behind, the road to civilisation
winds between two narrow hedges, every bush of which
shows traces of the awful storms that sweep over them day
and night. No tree can show its head, the whole country is
moor and fen, with no trace of civilisation to break the hard
monotony of its face. The beauties are beauties of nature ;
art has been able neither to disfigure nor to adorn.
The view from the cliffs of Morwenstow is sublime, and
near the top, so near as the foot of man may stand, Mr.
Hawker built him a hut out of the fragments of wrecks
thrown up on the shore. Carved ribs of vessels formed the
sides, and the entrance was ornamented with a carved figure¬
head. There he would sit looking out over the storm-tossed
ocean, watching the ships, or writing poetry, with only God
and the angels near him. Of course he was a poet, and one
of no mean order. “ The Quest of the Sangreal,” written in
his hut by the sea, is a poem of great and sustained power.
The church is a curious old building dating back three
centuries, in keeping with the place and people. The chancel
was the Vicar’s home. There he felt himself in communion
with his beloved angels. u The floor he kept strewn with
southernwood and thyme 1 for angels to smell to.’ ” There
he was accustomed to meditate and pray, generally at night.
There was his most abundant source of instruction. “There,”
he used to say, “ mysteries are made dear, doctrines
illustrated, and tidings brought, which, I firmly believe, are
the work of angelic ministry. Of course the angels of the
altar are. there, and the angel of my own baptism is never
away.”
HIS BELIEF IN ANGELIC MINISTRY.
Mr. Hawker had a profound belief in and realisation of
spiritual ministration. He called his spirits “ angels.”
“ He thought that all the baptised had six sponsors, three
on earth, and three in heaven. Those in heaven were the
guardian angel of the child, the saint whose name the child
bore, and the saint to whom the church was dedicated in
which the baptism took place.” “ The two worlds,” he
would say, “ are nearer than we think, and the transactions
between them are daily and graphic. I firmly believe that
the daily affairs of us all are discussed among spirits and
angels, and are helped or hindered by them as usually as one
earthly friend helps another. The angels hear what we say,
read what we write. One is looking over my shoulder now.
A traveller in Yorkshire in 1852 encountered on a moor a
person who seemed to him to be a pedler carrying a pack.
They sat down on a rock and conversed. Said the stranger,
‘ In fifty years from this time the great mass of the English
people will be divided into two armies, and their names will
be Catholic and infidel.’ The traveller knew not who the
stranger might be, nor did he touch him so as to ascertain that
it was really a man. Soon after (how he could hardly tell)
he had glided away.”
The remarkable point is the naivete with which the belief
in a “materialised spirit” is expressed. It did not need a
visitor from beyond the grave to give utterance to the rather
probable opinion put into the mouth of this pedler; but it
must be confessed that undoubted angels have at times
given utterance to most egregious commonplace, if indeed
they do not go very near to a monopoly of platitude. The
striking point is that we have a man whose primitive faith
can so speak, as to show that his mind was so imbued with
spiritual truth, that it did not occur to him to doubt or
even to apologise for the frank utterance of his belief.
Angels were his companions. Up in his eyrie by the sea
they inspired his poetry: in the chancel of his church, during
the silent hours of night, they watched by the altar, and
wafted his prayers to heaven. “ Ask God for strong angels,
and he will fulfil your prayer,” was his advice to a young
friend going to college. He was the fast friend of every
animated creature, and the birds all flocked to him, and
fluttered round him as he walked. He delighted in their
companionship, for- he said, “ Ubi aves ibi angeli ” (Where
the birds are, there are the angels). But he would by no
means have the two confounded. He fired with holy wrath
at the clap-trap notion of angels with wings. Mr. Lee sent
him a poem, in which he speaks of “ angel forms with
208
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 5, 1876.
rainbow pinions.” Mr. Hawker said, “ This troubles me. j
Angels have no wings, not a single feather. Whenever in j
the Old or New Testament they, actually appear, they are i
expressly said to be in white garments,’not to |
be distinguished by the patriarchs from other youthful i
guests, and so entertained unawares. Are you not instructed j>
that the alb of the primal church, girdled, was an exact copy
of the usual garments worn by angels when they communed |
with men ? . . . Wings, moreover, are to me destructive of all ||
poetry of motion from place to place. They imply effort. The j
angels glide on the chariots and horses of their own desires, i
One in Syria is fain to be in Egypt, and immediately is !
there, just as we think on one scene of a distant spot, and ;
at once our minds behold it, without consciousness of the ;
space between. No! no! Angels have not one feather, i
Michael Angelo, the inspired, neither carved nor drew a |
single wing, save once, when he portrayed the Annunciation, I
and then as an obvious delicacy of design. True, the pro- j
phetic imagery is abundant in feathers, symbolic, every |
one. But the actual angels are real existing peopl e who !
walk, and live, and move in calm unalterable youth; who i
speak in their unearthly language, although their voices do not \
move the air; who pass among us, and the grass bends not i
where they tread”
The same simple sublimity or sublime simplicity (the I
terms are very convertible) characterises all his utterances. !);
He had not to learn : he knew by intuition. In one of his | j
sermons he said, “There are angels round us on every side, jj
You do not see them. You ask me, ‘ Ho you ?’ and I answer, i j
‘Yes, I do.’ Am I weak? an angel stays me up. Ho my i j
hands falter? an angel sustains them. Am I weary to death ! i
with. disappointment ? my head rests on an angel’s bosom, j j
and an angel’s arms encircle me.”
A child said to him one day, “ Please, Mr. Hawker, did
you ever see an angel ?” “ Margaret,” he answered solemnly,
and took one of the child’s hands in his left palm, “ there
came to this door one day a poor man. He was in rags.
Whence he came I know not. He appeared quite suddenly
at the door. We gave him bread. There was something
wonderful, mysterious, unearthly in his face. And I watched
him as he went away. Look, Margaret, do you see that hill
all gold and crimson with gorse and heather ? He went that
way. I saw him go up through the gold and crimson, up,
still up, to where the blue sky is, and there I lost sight of
him all at once. 1 saw him no more, but I thought of the
words, ‘ Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby
some have entertained angels unawares.1 ”
He was a born mystic. To him, as he knelt in solitary
meditation at midnight in his chancel, Morwemia, the saint
of his parish would appear “ with pale face, exquisitely
beautiful, and golden hair and deep blue eyes.” Or he saw
angels ascending and descending, and heard “ a noise of
hymns.”
A gentle sound, an awful light,
Three angels bear the holy grail;
With folded feet, in stoles of white,
On sleeping wings they sail.
To him the spiritual world was the absolutely real. Breamy
enthusiast, was he ? Scarcely that, as we may show here¬
after ; but if he were, would God that some of that same
enthusiasm could be scattered broadcast, and that men might
know the truth of the old words, “ The things which are
seen are temporal: the things which are not seen are
eternal.” He was “ in the world, but not of it.” His
spirit hovered high above, in the thin, clear air, whilst his
body and earthly mind laughed, and joked, and laboured,
and sorrowed below.”
MR. HAWKER’S RELATIONS WITH OCCULT SCIENCE.
Mr. Hawker’s was a mind that had an intuitive perception
of the mysteries that underlie nature, and that was always
striving to fathom them. Living in the midst of a people
interpenetrated with a belief in the supernatural, not only
in the magical powers of witchcraft, as it was then called,
but also in the existence of a world peopled by a variety of
spiritual beings, he spent pains in trying to penetrate its
mysteries. Some of his thoughts on very abstruse subjects
are original and striking. “ That which we call space,” he
wrote, “ is a limited and measured part of the presence of
God, having within it fixed points and paths. We may law¬
fully conceive the form and outline of this vast but finite
figure to be a cone. A cone is a pyramid in revolved move¬
ment, and motion is the life of matter. The planets travel
in the curves of a cone. Whatsoever is not God is finite ;
and space is a limited creation. It holds and contains for
our contemplation the material universe. Itself revolves
with the planetary world on its breast. Peopled with the
stars and an orb in their midst, the outline of space is per¬
vaded with an ethereal element. It is the woof and tissue
of spiritual action and life ; the atmosphere, so to speak, of
bodiless spirits; the Coelum of the Mosaic record. Its
nature and forces are next to divine.”
There are strong affinities with occultism here. And he
carried his cabalistic sympathies far enough to make some
of the readers of this journal stare. “ At his side he carried
a bunch of seals. One bore the pentacle with the name
Jehovah in Hebrew characters in the centre.” This was
Solomon’s seal. “ With this seal I can command devils”
was his boast. And he explained it in a way cabalistic
enough to have come from Agrippa or Paracelsus himself.
“ The pentacle of Solomon was derived from his seal where¬
with he ruled the Genii. It was a sapphire, and it contained
a hand alive, which grasped a small serpent also alive.
Through the bright gem both were visible, the hand and the
worm (as of old they called it). When invoked by the
king, the fingers moved, and the serpent writhed, and
miracles were wrought by the spirits who were vassals of the
gem.”
THE EVIL EYE.
He had a strong belief in the power of the human eye.
“ Whenever he came across anybody with a peculiar eye¬
ball, sometimes bright and clear, and at others covered with
a filmy gauze, or a double pupil, ringed twice, or a larger
eye on the left than on the right side, he would hold the
thumb and fore and middle fingers in a peculiar manner, so as
to ward off the evil effect of the eye.” He would justify his
belief from Scripture, where the evil eye is classed with
blasphemy and pride, as things “ which defile a man.” And
he would quote a curious passage from Heliodorus, Bishop
of Tricca in Thessaly, in which Calasiris thus explains the
effect of the evil eye on his daughter—“ The air that sur¬
rounds us, passing, as it were, through a strainer, through
the eyes, the nostrils, the breath, and the other passages into
the inward parts, and the external properties rushing in
together with it, whatever be its quality as it flows in, of the
same nature is its effect; so that when any looks on beauty
with envy, he fills the circumambient air with a malignant
property, and diffuses upon his neighbour the breath coming
from himself replete with bitterness; and this, being (as it
is) of a most subtle nature, penetrates through into the very
bones and marrow.” He supported his thesis by more
elaborate arguments drawn from the same writer, which
space forbids us to quote. He believed, in short, that an
aura or atmosphere surrounds men, imperceptible to the
senses, which is the vehicle of spirit, in which spirits good
and bad move and operate. Every passion man feels vibrates
in this ether, and makes itself felt in the spirit-world. So
a sensation of love, anger, jealousy felt by one man is like a
stone thrown into a pool, sending its ripples throughout the
spiritual universe, and communicating its effects far and
wide. Some refined natures are conscious of this disturb¬
ance ; but the majority are so numbed in their spiritual
nature as to bp insensible to ill. He was used to instance
photography as having brought to light and taken cognisance
of a chemical element in the sun’s rays of which before we
knew nothing: and so he believed there was a spiritual
element in the atmosphere of which science could not give
account, as its action could only be registered by the soul,
which answered to the calms and storms in it as the baro¬
meter to the atmosphere. How near this is to truth let
sensitives—who feel every depression of the spiritual atmo¬
sphere, and to whom a malignant wish is as a lash or a
poisoned draught—testify.
THE LIGHTER SIDE OP HIS CHARACTER.
But there was a lighter side to his character. As a boy
he was full of fun and frolic, a terror to his more sober
seniors. Countless stories are told of his practical jokes.
He terrified his grandfather, good old Calvinistic soul, with
May 5, 1876.
(THE SPIRITUALIST.
209
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
his larking propensities, until he was obliged to get rid of
him. His father, a poor man, told him one day that he
could not afford to give him money to finish his college
course. Nothing daunted the boy (he was only twenty) ran,
without waiting to put on his hat, to a neighbouring village,
where four old maiden ladies lived. They had each two
hundred pounds a year and some landed property: and to
one of them he incontinently proposed marriage. She was
forty-one, and closed immediately. They were married at
once, and he returned to Oxford with a wife, one year older
than his mother. She was also his godmother, and had
taught him his letters. Plenty of decision of character and
boldness there, at any rate. He was not all dreamy
mysticism.
As he grew up the old spirit of fun sobered down into
quaintness and racy humour. He never favoured Evan¬
gelical religion. i( Conversion,” he used to say, “ was only
a spasm of the ganglions.” And he could tell a good story
against some of his Dissenting neighbours, whose opinions
he detested, but whom he never failed to help whenever it
lay in his power. One day he was walking on the cliffs of
Morwenstow with a clerical friend, when a gust of wind blew
off his friend’s hat and carried it over the cliff:—“ Within a
week or two a Methodist preacher at Truro was discoursing
on prayer, and said, ‘ I would not have you confine your
supplications to spiritual blessings, but ask also for temporal
favours. I will illustrate my meaning by relating an inci¬
dent—a fact—that happened to myself ten days ago. I was
on the shore of a cove near a little, insignificant place called
Morwenstow. Shall I add, my Christian friends, that I had
on my head at the time a shocking bad hat ? Then I lifted
up my prayer to the Almighty that he would pluck me out
of the great strait in which I found myself, and clothe me
suitably as to the head, for He painteth the petals of the
polyanthus and colours the calyx of the coreopsis (one can
fancy the unctuous roll of the good man’s tongue). At that
solemn moment I raised my eyes to heaven and I saw in the
spacious firmament on high, the blue ethereal sky, a black
spot. It approached, it largened, it widened, it fell at my
feet. It was a bran new hat by a distinguished London
maker! (evidently intended to cover the cranium of one of
the elect). I cast my beaver hat to the waves, and walked
into Bude as fast as I could with a new hat on my head.’”
The incident got into the papers, and Mr. Hawkes saw it.
“ Yes,” he said, “ the rascal made off with my friend’s new
hat from Lincoln and Bainett: there was no reaching him,
for we were on the cliff and could not descend the precipice.
He was deaf enough, I promise you, to our shouts.”
Such, to pass over much that might be said, was the old
vicar. He was a Spiritualist of a high type—a hearty Eng¬
lishman, a loyal and loving soul. He lived and laboured
through a long life at Morwenstow, and he had selected his
grave by the side of his first wife. But sacrilegious hands tore
his body away, and it does not rest at Plymouth, for many an
old Morwenstow man will tell the traveller now how the old
vicar is to be seen standing at the head of the stone that
covers his wife’s remains, and looking mournfully at the
blank space where he had hoped his own name would be cut.
Victim of a trick on his death-bed, ho haunts his chosen
grave. M.A. (Oxon).
“ Spirit People.”—We have received another batch of hooks on
Spiritualism ; hut having recently expressed our views on the subject
at some length, it will be unnecessary to devote more than a brief
notice to the following. Mr. W. H. Harrison, who appears to be a
trustworthy and impartial observer, well acquainted with the methods
of scientific research as well as the tricks of conjurors, has given in a
cheap brochure, called Spirit People, a record of the “ manifestations ”
he has witnessed under conditions that seem free from the suspicion of
fraud. The facts narrated by Mr. Harrison are characteristic of the
general phenomena of Spiritualism—the everlasting rappings and I
heavings of furniture, the objectless dartings of mysterious lights, the j
usual inane gibbering and muttering of voices in the dark, and the i)
startling but senseless thaumaturgy in the twilight. In vain we search ! |
the pages of Spiritualistic literature for any better credentials it can j (
offer to those who blindly believe it is a new revelation. A subject of i j
profound psychological interest we believe it to be, one that has yet to j j
be examined without prejudice and without fear; but we cannot too j j
earnestly urge upon its believers that it is and can be in no sense a j)
religion. Faith is the essence of religion, but in Spiritualism faith is j
replaced by the evidence of the senses; and hence, without any great j j
change in the attitude of his mind, a man readily passes from Materialism I
into Spiritualism.—The Nonconformist.
I (! SEANCES UNDER TEST CONDITIONS.
Ill A short paper upon “ Test Seance Conditions," was read by Mr. T.
| Blyton at the weekly meeting, held at the Rooms of the Dalston Asso-
! j; ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
I s; London, on Thursday evening last week, There was a good attendance
m of members, and Mr. John Rouse was voted into the chair.
I In the course of his paper Mr. Blyton said:—“The desirability of
conducting dark, or cabinet seances, under more stringent conditions,
with a view to eliminate any chance of deception, and afford some
guarantee of the passivity of members of the circle, and consequent
genuineness of manifestations, has led to the adoption of a resolution by
ni the Council of this Association, under which it is essential that some
j) i effort should be made to determine the ‘ most efficient conditions for
i{j observance at such seances’ That some satisfactory test conditions
i): should be observed, at least at the seances of an association such as
I) | this, is but reasonable and proper. The question as to what conditions
\}\ are the most suitable must probably depend, more or less, upon the
|)| nature of the manifestations expected to be evolved at a seance. In
I /1 any case, such conditions as tend to disturb the even flow of theemana-
! (i tions from the bodies of the sitters in the circle should, probably, be
i)| avoided, as the spirits have frequently explained that failures have
ijj arisen from a difficulty in combining the emanations sufficiently to
j j i „ enable them to operate successfully. In the case of sitting for physical
! | i manifestations, physical test conditions should, undoubtedly, be enforced.
i)i Those persons seated to the right and left hand of the sensitive, or
|) j medium, for such manifestations, should not be themselves sensitive to
i j i mesmeric influence, as it would detract from the value of their testi-
:) mony with respect to the passivity, or otherwise, of the medium while
i { the manifestations were being produced. Then it is desirable that each
jji sitter in the circle should be connected, but not, perhaps, in actual
|(| contact. In some instances where the ‘holding of hands’ has been
j); tried, it has been found difficult to retain the hold of the medium
i j throughout the seance, and not obstruct the manifestations; while it is
: (: possible that such a condition may induce an unfavourable mesmeric
hi influence, which disturbs the work of the spirits. The connection of
|) the members of the circle could be effected by linking the wriste of each
I} i sitter to his or her neighbour, but leaving a space of say six inches
h between each binding. If the fastenings are properly and efficiently
I) secured, it will scarcely affect the question of the genuineness of the
manifestations, by suggesting that the spirits may release and replace
I) | the fastenings of the medium; as, in that case, there would be ample
|5j evidence of some abnormal power at work. Another and, perhaps,
i i more pleasant condition, would be to fasten a large sheet of paper upon
I ! the surface of the table, and to mark with a pencil thereon the position
I i of the hands of each member of the circle. This would actually dispense
! with connecting the sitters, and would be sufficient to show any move-
l) i ment of the hands from their original position. Other test conditions
of a similar nature could readily be devised. To suggest conditions for
| j; siances of a mental type, including trance impressions, seeing, automatic
|writing, &c., is a more difficult matter. Some investigators have, how-
W ever, considered the testing of an entranced person, by inserting a
j): needle point into the flesh, pinching, or other means of a like nature, to
| [ | be effective, which is not to be denied; but whether it is the most
!' humane method may be doubted. The communications received by
: j! these phases of mediumship must, I think, recommend themselves to
i) our acceptance more by any internal evidence they may contain than by
11 characteristics of the channel through which they are delivered.”
Mr. Edwin Dottridge thought that the proposal of Mr. Blyton to place
| j | paper upon the table, and to mark thereon the position of the sitters’
hands, would not be found to answer in practice, consequent on the
|)| “ twitchings ” to which some are subject.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell was of opinion that the holding of the wrists of
i (: each sitter was the most convenient and effective test condition in dark
|) i seances for physical manifestations.
Mr. John McL. Glassford, F.C.S., hoped that efforts would be made
I ] | to obtain some physical manifestations in sufficient light to observe
i) them, which course, he considered, would not necessitate such stringent
i i conditions as are requisite in dark seances. He referred, in support of
III his views, to the seances given by Mr. D. D. Home, the well-known
j)| medium, who always sat in sufficient light to enable the observers to
I : discern the movements of objects.
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, in response to a call from the chairman,
i)i said that the siances might be held during the coming summer months
I in twilight as an experiment. He looked upon the physical manifesta¬
tions as evidence of powers connected more or less with spirits in the
body, the extent of which is as yet little understood, and that there
might be other orders of being to which many of the phenomena
I \ may be due without ascribing them to the work of our departed spirit
friends.
Mr. R. Cocker expressed his conviction that the most satisfactory
manifestations would be obtained if, instead of enforcing test con¬
ditions, more confidence were exhibited towards each other.
The chairman and other members having spoken to various test ex¬
periences, the meeting was shortly afterwards brought to a close.
Herr Reimers, of Manchester, has presented M. Alexandre Aksakof,
of St. Petersburg, with some casts and original moulds of spirit hands.
Arrangements are being made for Dr. Sexton to lecture on Spirit¬
ualism at Chester-le-Street, at Whitsuntide. Mr. Brown, trance-medium,
is now giving seances in the locality.
210
THE SPIRITUALIST. Mat 5, 1876.
“ OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.”* j
A new book in connection with Spiritualism has just been |j
issued by the Countess of Caithness, entitled Old Truths in [j
a Nero Light, in which the authoress boldly avows her belief j
in the unpopular truths of Spiritualism, and argues that j)
modern materialistic science, spiritual science, and Scripture K
are not irreconcilable. The book opens with some critical K
remarks about the presidential address delivered by Professor \)
Tyndall before the British Association at Belfast, and Lady K
Caithness, unlike the great majority of the more careless \l
readers thereof, has discovered that at heart Professor Tyn- j
dall is no materialist, but has considerable poetry in his I
nature, and recognises the fact that that “matter” of which j
he speaks so much, is at root essentially transcendental and |
unknowable. She points out that matter and force are in H
themselves automatic agents, and argues that no conceivable \l
amount of play of polar forces could cause atoms to build |
themselves into living organic forms, every atom going to |
its proper place, and performing there a particular office. |
Her argument is that these forces and atoms are controlled \\
by some determining power to produce the results which are ||
seen.
In one part of the book she gives an interesting conver- j)j
sation which she had with Professor Agassiz, in the course m
of which the following remarks were interchanged :—
“ Life,” he said, “how do" you explain life?” I believe he asked :)
this question to try me, because his own views on this point are very | j
well known. I began to feel nervous, but armed myself with my truly i {
feminine courage, “for, after all,” I thought, “why should I be ;)
ashamed of my ignorance ? Professor Agassiz knows he is not talking j (
to a philosopher, and will not expect a philosophical reply from a lady.” i)
Besides, if the truth must be confessed, as usual when in difficulty I j)
besought the aid of my spirit friends before replying, and the follow- Is
ing answer glided from my lips almost before it was formed in my j j
mind:—
“ Life is a manifestation of spirit; its manifestation is movement. I I)
am very simple-minded, and naturally refer all that exists to God, the |)
Great First Cause. If you ask me what is movement, I should say it |(
is a manifestation of force, and force is a manifestation of will-power. !)
I can, therefore, only tell you that my definition of vitality would be i)
movement produced by the Will of God.”
This definition of spirit appears to be a better one than ||
that which Mr. Serjeant Cox gave to the Psychological i i
Society, and to be to a large extent unanswerable. Every l|]
physicist is aware that the nature of force is utterly | I
unknown, and that a force can only be defined by its j I
effects; thus, there is adhesive force, which causes two m
polished plates to adhere to each other; there is cohesive ||i
force, by which the atoms of matter composing solid sub- I j
stances are held together; there is the force of gravitation, ! j
extending over large distances, and founded on the assump- j j
tion that every atom of matter attracts every other atom of I) j
matter. The results are practical, but how they are produced m
no one knows. Consequently, when Lady Caithness says ij|
that force is a manifestation of will-power, and that ! I
vitality is a movement produced by the will of God, nobody | i
is in a position to prove that such is not the case.
Another interesting chapter in Old Truths in a, Nero j j
Light, is entitled, “Revelation Limited by the Perceptive Hi
Faculty,” in which the authoress clearly sets forth that i !
revelation cannot take place until it finds minds sufficiently j j
developed for its reception. What would be the use of j j
attempting to explain the law of the conservation of I j
energy to a savage who cannot count more than two? j j
She says :—
The truth of a hundred years ago is not the truth of to-day; and the j j I
truth which the spiritual perceptions of Pilate could have accepted, would |) I
not satisfy ours of the nineteenth century, because each one that has |j I
passed since then has brought us a deeper insight into the knowledge Hi
of the things of God, of those Divine truths which underlie all the i)l
spiritual and all the natural phenomena of the universe; and, as we I (i
can only know the Creator through His works, our conception of His | j I
greatness must expand as our knowledge of those works increases.
God is God from the creation,
Truth alone is man’s salvation,
But the God whom now we worship,
Soon shall be our God no more ; K j
For the soul in its unfolding, j) i
Ever more its thought remoulding,
Learns more truly in its progress
How to love and to adore. . j) |
How, then, can we expect God’s word to be final, or that He who gives li j
* Loudon; Chapman and Hall, 1876. !([
us our daily bread should deny us that continual supply of spiritual
food for which our constantly expanding spiritual faculties must
hunger ? Is it likely that the Giver of all good things would say,
“ I have closed the doors of communication. Your prayer reaches my
ear, but no further answer shall you receive than the Word I have
already spoken. I began to speak when I called man into being, and I
continued to reveal my eternal truths unto his expanding perceptive
faculties until one thousand five hundred years ago, when I closed the
until then open door, and I will not open it again. My Word exists in
print; some of you say it is not properly translated into your different
languages ; others think that words have been added, or omitted, which
mar its beauty or destroy its truth. Settle those questions among
yourselves, and without quarrelling, if you can. There it is, make the
best you can of it.”
What have the men of the present done to forfeit the privilege
enjoyed by their predecessors, and that their heavenly Father should
treat them so differently from the men of the past ?
There is much in Old Truths in a Nero Light about
Biblical subjects, and attempts are made to show that
certain passages in the Old and New Testament have special
symbolical meanings, some of them to be explained only by
the admission of the doctrine of Allan Kardec and Pythagoras.
These portions of the book are of a speculative nature.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
WHAT IS THE USE OP SPIRITUALISM ?
On Thursday evening last week a public meeting was held under the
auspices of the Brixton Psychological Society, at the Angell Town
Institute, Gresham-road, Brixton, at which a lecture was delivered by
Dr. George Sexton on “ The Use of Spiritualism.” Mr. Gray presided.
Dr. Sexton began by stating that he had delivered several lectures in
that hall answering various objections to Spiritualism, and it was a
common thing in conversation, after the objector had been defeated at
every point, to remark, “Well, if it is true, what is the use of it?”
Although this sentence was frequently uttered merely as a parrot cry
and without much thought, it was really of a sensible nature. In the
first place he would remark that it was an erroneous lino of action to
judge everything by its utility; the first question should be, “ Is it
true ? ” leaving the question of its utility to follow ; besides, everything
that was true had some use, although that use might not at first be
discovered. In science it was very seldom that new discoveries were
made with reference to their ultimate utility. History narrates how,
ages ago, in ancient Greece, Thales first discovered electricity by rub¬
bing a piece of amber ; he then noticed that it would attract light bodies.
Ages upon ages passed away before the use of this new agent was dis¬
covered, yet the telegraphic system of the present day proved its use to
be incalculable. There were no truths anywhere that had not some use
in God’s universe. (Applause.) In the body of his lecture he narrated
how Spiritualism demonstrated the immortality of man, and had the
power of breaking down the materialism of the age. Some of those
present might produce their New Testaments, and say that they knew
of the immortality of man before ; but although they might be in that
position themselves, they should remember that vast numbers were not,
and these, when the volume in question was appealed to as authoritative,
would laugh at them, telling them that they did not know the history of
the book they held in their hands, nor who its authors were. He did
not say that those objectors were right in so doing, but he did aver that
Spiritualism had the power of breaking down their materialism where
every tiling else failed.
At the close of the lecture the chairman announced that questions
might be asked by any of the listeners who wished to put them.
MEN AND ANIMALS IN THE NEXT WORLD.
A listener—Do the lower animals live after death ? because you have
alluded to them in your lecture in rather a disrespectful manner.
Dr. Sexton—According to my views, certainly not.
Another listener—Have departed spirits the human form ?
Dr. Sexton—Certainly. Spiritualists hold that the material body
is moulded on the spirit body which underlies it. The material body is
only the covering of the spirit.
Another speaker remarked—You seem to say that immortality is
natural to man, yet the Scriptures speak of immortality as a gift.
Jesus said that He would “ give ” it. “ I am the resurrection and
the life.” If it is to be a gift of God to us, then it cannot be natural to
life after death.
Dr. Sexton replied that the last speaker had not only put a question,
but’made a statement. He differed with the gentleman in his interpre¬
tation of what the Bible said, and he believed that immortality was
taught in the Old Testament as well as in the New; moreover, he had
given evidence to that effect in a pamphlet which he had written. Of
course immortality was a gift of God, like everything else in the world,
but the passage quoted by the last speaker, he thought, referred to the
new spiritual life.
A gentleman rose and said—What do you mean by Spiritualism ?
Do you mean that the souls of departed persons are living near us ?
Dr. Sexton replied that he had been making that statement all
through the lecture, and he must have failed indeed if the listeners had
made any mistake upon the point.
A PHANTOM WOMAN AND A REMARKABLE CAT.
Another gentleman said—What proof can you give me that spirits
exist ? I know of none, although I must say that I once met with a
May 5, 1876,
Til E SPIBITXJALIST.
211
peculiar phenomenon. I saw an old woman run upstairs one morning ;
it was daylight, and I was the first up in the house; it was our
charwoman, and I wondered what business she had to be in the house
at that unusual time of the day. I ran upstairs after her, and dis¬
covered that she was not there, nor anywhere else on the premises. It
was a strange thing. A day or two before and after, I had a somewhat
similar case, but, instead of seeing the old woman, saw a black cat. The
cat walked into my bedroom. I shut the door, and I thought, “ Oh, my
beauty, I have you, have I ? ” The cat ran under the bed; I took a
piece of iron, and struck under the bed without hitting anything, and
on looking beneath, there was no cat there, neither could one be found
in the room; I looked up the chimney, but all to no purpose. A day or
two afterwards I was in a passage, and I saw the same cat walk towards
a door which was open two or three inches, and she went clean through
the door without opening it any further. I was very much startled, and
I searched the room for her, not expecting to find her, nor did I. Then
I thought to myself, “ My stomach is out of order.” I took some medi¬
cine, got better, and have never seen any cat since. (Laughter.)
Dr. Sexton responded, that he had lectured in that hall recently on the
proofs of Spiritualism, and he proceeded to explain to the gentleman,
in a few words, the substantial nature of the evidence. How did the
last speaker explain what he had seen ?
The gentleman replied that he thought that it was a waking dream,
proceeding from a slightly disordered state of the brain, produced by
his stomach being out of order.
Dr. Sexton asked, supposing three or four persons had seen the same
woman at the same time, should he then have thought that his stomach
was out of order ?
The questioner remarked that in such case he should not have thought
so, but he did not know of any such instance.
Mr. Harrison asked: Did he clearly understand that Dr. Sexton
meant that the gentleman had really seen the spirit of the old woman ?
Dr. Sexton—Yes: certainly.
Mr. Harrison—Then if you have proved that to be the spirit of a
woman, you have also proved the cat to be a spirit cat, and a little while
ago you said that there were no animals in the spirit world. (Laughter.)
How do you explain that ?
Dr. Sexton replied that he had not said there were no animals in the
spirit world, what he had said was that animals were not immortal.
Mr. Harrison—Then you mean that there are spirit cats in the next
world, but they die off now and then, whereas human beings do not die
off there ?
Dr. Sexton replied that that was not his meaning. In spirit life men
found themselves surrounded with images projected from the interior of
the individual, each man having the power of forming his own surround¬
ings in harmony with his inner nature. There were cats and chairs
and all kinds of objects in the spirit world, but there such things had a
symbolical meaning.
Another speaker remarked—You said we can converse with our de¬
parted friends. Is not this against the revealed doctrine, that the soul
when it quits the body floats about like vapour, and will do so until the
last judgment, when it will take its body again ? I do not see how
anybody can hold converse with a spirit if the Scriptural doctrine be
true.
Dr. Sexton replied that the question meant in effect—“Did not
Spiritualism oppose certain views prevalent at the present time?”
Certainly it did. But if the last speaker would think over his vapour
theory, he would see that it was both unscriptural and unreasonable.
How could anybody exist without form? Spiritualists held that a
spirit was not vapour, but the actual man, so real that it did not die
with the rest of the body. The spirits described in the Bible were
always spoken of as men, witness those who came to Abraham, Lot,
and Noah. Moses and Elias, when they appeared on the Mount of
Transfiguration, were described as men. The idea about spirits
floating about like vapour was all moonshine. It was neither rational
nor Scriptural.
Mr. Edmands proposed a vote of thanks to the lecturer, which was
seconded and carried with acclamation.
Dr. John Purdon has just returned to England from India with his
family, and is now residing with Mr. Henry Cook, at Hackney.
The celebrated Euler, having demonstrated certain properties of
arches, adds, “ All experience is in contradiction to this, but this is no
reason for doubting its truth.”—Coleridge’s Aids to Reflection.
Alleged Elementary Spirits.—A private letter from M. Aksakof,
of St. Petersburg, says:—“ Perhaps it will be interesting for you to
know that Prince A. Dolgorouky, the great authority on mesmerism,
has written me that he has ascertained that the spirits which play the
most prominent part at seances are elementaries—gnomes, &c. His
clairvoyants have seen them and describe them.’’
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—Mr. Morse has been delivering
trance addresses in Bishop Auckland, Newcastle-on-Tyne, and Liver¬
pool during the past few weeks, and his labours have met with favour
and acceptance. On Sunday last two discourses were delivered through
his trance mediumship in the County Court Rooms, Halifax. The
afternoon lecture was on “ Salvation,” and that in the evening upon
“ Spirituality.’’ The attendance on each occasion was good. Mr.
Morse gave his services free of cost, in aid of the Scattergood testimonial.
During the close of this week he has been addressing meetings in
Ossett. On Sunday next he will address meetings at 2.30 and 7.0 p.m.,
in the Freemasons’ Hall, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. His en¬
gagements are Halifax, May 13th ; Manchester, May 14th and 15th ;
Liverpool, May 21st; Sheffield, May 22nd; Jersey (Channel Islands),
May 26 th till June 1st. Societies desiring his services are requested
to address Mr. Morse, at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER’S PHYSICAL SEANCES.
cabinet manifestations under the eyes of observers.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist ”
Sir,—At Miss Fowler’s seance for physical manifestations last Thurs¬
day, at which I was present, two chief points of interest occurred,
deserving of special notice.
Miss Fowler was bound to her chair, with her hands behind her, her
sleeves having been first sewn together near the wrist with white cotton.
She sat behind a curtain, and a table, with guitar, tambourine, and
hand-bells was placed near her, also behind the curtain. The objects
on the table were thrown out in front and at the side of the curtain, a
hand and part of an arm being then visible. The other sitters present
were Mr. H. Wedgwood, Mr. and Mrs. Regan, and Mr. H. A. Kersey,
of Newcastle. I asked to be allowed to look in and see the hands at
work. This favour was granted to me and to Mr. Kersey at the same
time. We saw the table rock gently to and fro; the tambourine and
other objects also moved slightly on the table ; hut no hands were visible.
On resuming our seats, the hands came out again immediately. It
was quickly ascertained that Miss Fowler remained bound exactly as
before.
Miss Fowler has always said that she does not see the hands during
these physical manifestations; she only knows that the objects are
moved. The second manifestation of peculiar interest was the opening
and shutting of a book placed on Miss Fowler’s knees while her hands
were still tied to the back of the chair. Miss Fowler then sat in front
of the curtain. The light was not strong, but it was sufficiently good to
enable all to see perfectly the various antics of the book. The cover
was opened and closed, the leaves raised one by one; then the book
stood on end, and finally turned completely over. A bell was placed
upon it, which first moved slightly, and gradually became more and
more agitated, until it succeeded, apparently, in ringing itself.
This manifestation, if encouraged with more and more light, would be
of great value, and, certainly, Miss Fowler deserves every commenda¬
tion for her ready compliance with the conditions necessary for placing
these elementary phenomena beyond the region of doubtful appearances.
Emily Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street.
^robinctai fletos.
NEWCASTLE.
Seance at Weirs Court.—On Tuesday evening last week, about
four and twenty members of the Newcastle Society of Spiritualists
assembled at Weirs Court, and with Miss Fairlamb as medium, sat for
the materialisation of spirit forms. The medium was securely corded to
an arm chair by Mr. Davison, who commenced his tying from the back,
and having well secured her arms and body to the chair, two labels were
attached to the cord at different positions as it was knotted ; these labels
the medium could not see. Mr. Pickup and Mr. Rhodes each marked a
label, also the position of it; the ends of the cord were brought to and
fastened low down on the back leg of the chair. The tying altogether was
such as no person in a similar condition could release himself from, or
if released, refasten himself and get the knots and labels in the same
position again, in a dark cabinet. Inside the cabinet was placed a blank
sheet of note paper and a pencil; the medium was placed inside, the
curtains were closed, and in a subdued light three different figures made
their appearance separately, one three feet high, another about the same
height as the medium, and the other (judging by the height of the
cabinet), some six or eight inches taller. The sitters nearest the cabinet
on each side received various marks of attention, and at the close of the
seance, on bringing the medium out, it was found that the cording, knots,
and labels were all exact and untampered with in the least, and the
note paper was written on in two different handwritings, with two
different signatures. The medium had no knowledge of the paper being
placed inside the cabinet, and was unconscious for some minutes after
being brought out. The stance lasted a little over an hour.—J. T. Rhodes.
The North of England Revieic contains an article on “Jesus and
Spiritualism.”
The Weirs Court Meetings.—On Sunday evening last Mr. J. T.
Rhodes read “ Spiritualism as Demonstrated by Ancient and Modern
History,” by Judge Edmonds. Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., occupied the
chair.
A Persecuted Preacher.—Mr. James Wilson, of Ulgham, near New¬
castle, dissenting minister, having had his pulpit taken from him and
lost his occupation, has issued a circular, setting forth that having
been slandered of late, and charged with becoming an apostate “ from
grace and from Christ,” he will give his friends the opportunity of
meeting him “ like what they want to be called—Christians,” and is
ready to meet any man or woman at any place, to discuss the matter,
as “a believer in Jesus, and at the same time a Spiritualist,” and one
who thinks that modern Spiritualism is in strict harmony with the Bible.
He intends for the future to act as a missionary lecturer for the distinct.
National Association Allied Societies.—The following resolution
was recently passed by the Council of the National Association of
Spiritualists:—“ That the members of societies in alliance with the
National Association be admitted, on presentation of their cards of
membership, to the same privileges as regards meetings and seances as
ordinary members of the National Association, and that the secretary of
each allied society be requested to furnish annually to the secretary of
the National Association a complete list of the members of such local
and allied society.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 5, 1876.
# * * , * * j* *
All nature madly musical-—we dream ;
A vision of the earlier springs we see ;
The olden Aprils haunt us with the new,
And heaven seems gained, without a coffin gate :
All life! all love, all beauty opening !
Sweet-footed summer starting from the south,
Enriched with orchard hues and tropic noons.
3, Crawthorne-street, Peterborough. J. T. Markxev.
©ottesponTience.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed i) i
to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUAL VISION DEVELOPED BY MESMERISM. Jj
Sir,— I find in your report of a recent meeting of the National Asso- In
ciation of Spiritualists that Dr. Gully said “ that he had seen clairvoy- (
ants who had been developed by mesmerism, hut under those conditions |)|
sensitives never seemed to see spirits : they only saw things on the plane i (|
of the earth.” I have little doubt that this statement is true as regards \{\
the generality of mesmerically developed clairvoyants, but I do not j|j
think it is true as regards all such. Many years ago, perhaps twenty |/|
years ago, I mesmerised a pit lad at Newcastle-on-Tyne, and succeeded i(j
in inducing unconsciousness to external objects. I soon found that he |)|
was capable of answering questions, and I endeavoured to ascertain his if:
views as to immortality. He avowed himself a materialist: said in the i (|
most positive way that no individual existed after death. He emphati- i j i
eally asserted that nothing remained of a man after death but the if:
chemical elements which composed his body. Quite without premedila- i j i
tion I placed my hand on his head without any idea of calling his i>l
phrenological organs into action, when he instantly dropped on his knees, |f |
and, clasping his hands together, burst into tears, exclaiming—“ Sister! i(i
Oh, I see sister ! “ What sister? ” said I. “ Is she gone away from ])|
earth, or still in this life? ” “Oh,” said he, “she passed away some ifj
years ago.” “ How? ” returned I; “ I thought you denied any life after I (|
this.” “Yes,” he answered; “but I knew no better. She is there! i)j
she is there!” pointing to the space before him. He described the ifj
flowing hair, the shining countenance, and white robes of the happy i(j
ones, weeping most naturally and unrestrainedly as he did so. He \)\
knew nothing of all this on his return to his normal state. It was a in
remarkable scene; its phenomena were totally unexpected by me— i(|
therefore not the result of my volition. It is true the organ of veneration | f:
and spirituality may have been brought into action by my touch, and ; f!
have introduced their appropriate scenery: but are we to suppose that I (j
the action of these noble organs results in mere hallucinations, that they |>i
have no objective realities to work upon, and that the apparition of a :f|
sister was merely the baseless fabric of a vision? I might have |(|
answered this question in the affirmative five and twenty years ago, but |)i
in the face of the facts of modern Spiritualism I am inclined to hold a jf j
contrary opinion. •):
It is many years since I looked through Cahagnet’s book, but if I m
recollect aright, spirits are reported there to have been frequently seen by ifj
clairvoyants under mesmeric influence. i' m
Andrew Jackson Davis, who became developed by mesmerism, die- jf I
tated Nature's Divine Revelations in the mesmeric trance, and in that ;(l
book described the different states of mind in the celestial spheres.
I had so often, in fact, read accounts of clairvoyants under mesmeric ifj
influences seeing spirits, that, in a long and interesting conversation I W
had with Mr. Benjamin Coleman fifteen or sixteen years ago about the
hypothesis that the new phenomena were due to spirits, I asserted my
belief in its truth; and one of the reasons I gave for that belief, I
recollect, was that, if we found the statements of clairvoyants as to
phenomena occurring at a distance on this earth reliable, where we
could verify them, it was but reasonable to put trust in their statements
as to phenomena from their nature not verifiable—such as the existence
and appearance of spirits ; it was but reasoning to the unknown from
data which he had tested and verified as to the known. Mr. Coleman’s
observation was “ That’s Robert Chambers’s argument.” Let me take
this opportunity of acknowledging gratefully the great pleasure I take in
reading the discussious of the Psychological Society, and my apprecia¬
tion of the great work that society is doing; as well as the transactions
of the National Association. The friendly intercourse of cultivated
minds has long been a desideratum in the Spiritualist movement.
Thomas Hayle.
Rochdale. ■
INDIVIDUALITY.
Sir,—The admirable speculations of “ G. T. C. M. ” on the above
and related terms lead to a result which has been arrived at, more or
less explicitly, by all profound thinkers. The problem, and the con¬
siderations which lead up to it, may be stated thus. Individuality is
constituted by difference. Now, difference is either of state or place,
unless there is also a difference that eludes definition and cannot be
represented, namely, of substance or existence. Take, first, the dif¬
ference of place. Suppose two drops of water or grains of sand so
exactly similar in size and composition, that not only is no difference
in these respects to be detected, but none exists. Or take two elemen¬
tary molecules—say of hydrogen. In that case the difference which
constitutes their several individualities is one of place only, unless, as
aforesaid, there is a difference of substance or existence, which would
ensue if space for them was not. To pass from differences of place to
those of state. Take two self-conscious egos. Eliminate from the
consideration all the locality of organism, and regard them as having
exactly similar states at the same time, acted on by exactly similar
forces, producing exactly correspondent modifications. The possibility
of this must be conceded if the difference is to be inherent and not
contingent. We must ignore the fact that in the very form of the sup¬
position—two—we have postulated difference, and then ask in what the
difference, if any, consists ? Obviously we have got down to the rock.
It lies little below the surface in all metaphysical researches. That
rock is substance, the unknown Noumenon of Kant. The moment we
strike this rock the problem rises up before us, which may be expressed
in three words—“ Noumenon or Noumena ? ” Is there only “ the One,”
or has “ the Many ” an independent and not merely a contingent and
relative subsistence ? “ What constitutes Individuality ? ” is only
another way of asking “What is Being?” That there are differences
between relative egos far more profound than any that come to light in
this stage of existence, that the successive elimination of these differ¬
ences will only reveal deeper and deeper ones, always expressed as, and
in, spiritual localisation, may be conjectured with more or less of
certainty. Must the upward ascent be represented by parallel or by
converging lines ? That is the question. To reach eternity, in which
all difference is hushed, may require an infinite time. But, deriving all
finite existences from the One, we are led by analogy to conceive that
life is differentiated by passing through media of successive densities,
just as light is broken up and manifested by the same cause. These
media would be planes of existence, and, in rising from one to another
of lesser density, differences due to the grosser would be merged in the
rarer. Then spirits would be divided by more subtle and intimate
distinctions than can find expression here, but not less real.
To attempt to discover the ground of individuality here appears to me
a perfectly hopeless quest; yet not useless, if, in seeking for finite
unity, we come upon the potentiality of infinite development. It is this
potentiality of differentiation by development that we are obscurely con¬
scious of as the ground of our individuality. Individuality, regarded
as substance, is not an atom but an egg. It is the self-consciousness of
the tree in the germ. But if we ask for an eternal and necessary as
well as a relative and progressive foundation of life, we find it only in
that which negates and absorbs all difference, the abysmal depth of the
one. Allow me to add that all that has been, and I think all that can
be said to the purpose upon the question of essential distinctions, is to
be found in Plato. Comparatively few have sufficient patience, mental
preparation, and appreciation of exact thought to grapple victoriously
with the endless definitions and distinctions of the Parmenides ; but G.
T. C. M. is evidently one of them. It should be read with Taylor’s
introduction. C. C. M.
THE SOLUTION OF PUBLIC MYSTERIES.
Sir,—As Spiritualists we may expect to bo ridiculed and discredited
when any communication affecting a public event (such as the Blackburn
murder), to which some mystery attaches, is offered by us with a view
to its explanation. Notwithstanding this, were concerted action to take
place in spirit circles in any given locality, or where mediums are
situated who would be of service in the matter of unravelling a mystery,
a great power would be exercised for the rapid advancement of Spirit¬
ualism in public estimation.
I am keenly alive to the necessity for prudent action in the publication
of such communications as may purport to explain any secret circum¬
stances connected with public crimes, the issues hanging upon the
ultimate solution being too serious for rash or premature action. Besides,
no Spiritualist—or, indeed, any humane person—could feel desirous to
be instrumental in causing the execution of a fellow creature, however
debased and sin-stained he may be. In cases where crime is not an
element in the question, there would still be no less cause for caution.
But were circles, as I have indicated, to concert measures for the
212
WITH APRIL—ALONE!
Away from rattling, money-winning wheels,
From cash-creating smoke, from shouting crowds;
Supremely lost to friends, and dead to foes;
Removed from politics—which sour the soul;
Exchanging pen for lute ; the factory fires
For soothing sunsets; scream of engine’s pipes
For Philomel’s sweet, non-subscription songs!
In greening lanes, or fields of forward green,
By bending, beauteous, softly-flowing brooks,
Courting the shadows, zephyrs, fountains’ spray;
Entranced,—or dreaming from excess of thought,
The eye in fruitful, photographic ease—
A heart bewildered, purified, and bless’d
With holiness, unknown to fighting creeds :
Alone with April births, and near to God,
The poet hath his banqueting in peace,
Where blooms the daisy by the woodland fringe,
Or where the cowslip goldens through the day.
0 Paradise! how lovely, wondrous, wild !
Who can report this festival to heaven ?
And art thou, April, Niobe of months ?
Thy hallow’d tears a christening ?—not a death;
The birth of buttercups—no lifeless stone,
As when fine sorrow petrifies the heart,
And leaves the slowly hardening statue—cold!
Ah ! no, the weeper, weepeth here for joy !
The sadness is a resurrection psalm,
And showers are shorn of gloom by laughing suns,—
By skies which only frown to hide their love,
As sweethearts fairly hide their burning bliss
Through looks affected to disguise a mood
Ripening in silence for the afterglow !
Burst forth! amid the rainy tenderness,
Ye buds, ye hanging berries, leaves, and boughs !
Awake ! shy flow’rets on the breasts of hills,
I want a garland for my shepherdess!
And soon must glean the shining fallow-lands!
May 5, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
213
acquisition of all information possible upon any given points, and having
sat for the special purpose, afterwards compare results carefully, and
draw up a statement of what has been given at the separate sittings,
great benefit might accrue. Let this document be signed and sealed, if
need be, and given into the hands of some person of standing and intel¬
ligence, so that its date and terms may afterwards be put beyond a
doubt. If deemed advisable, and if the circumstances warranted it, the
contents might appear in The Spiritualist. Of course, the usual readers
are perfectly aware that all messages are not*reliable, nor are they
expected to be found so, because all spirits are not reliable—just as all
men are not to be depended upon. Besides, there are other disturbing
influences, so that a note to that effect should accompany the publication
of any such communications.
Could we do something like this in reference to these ever recurring
notorious public matters, shipwrecks, and so on, I feel that we should do
more in a few years to plant the feet of our movement more firmly before
the face of society than a hundred years of hard work such as is now
engaged in, in order to maintain the truth in the face of large odds.
G. G.
THE SCATTERGOOD TESTIMONIAL—POSTPONEMENT OP THE MEETING.
Sir,—The presentation meeting announced to be held in Halifax last
Tuesday, the 1st of May, had to be postponed in consequence of a
telegram from Boston, U.S., stating that Mr. Scattergood was danger¬
ously ill, and that Mrs. Scattergood must go at once.
Our sister, after a few hurried arrangements, and under these dis¬
tressing circumstances, sailed by the steamship Wyoming last Wednes¬
day, not knowing whether she will meet her husband “ in the form,” or
land in America a widow.
The committee have decided to hold a meeting in the old Court-house,
Halifax, on Saturday, the 13th May, when they trust a large gathering
of Mr. and Mrs. Scattergood’s friends will take place. The committee
respectfully but urgently appeal to the friends who have not yet sent in
their contributions, to do so, to the undersigned, by cheque, P.O.O., or
stamps.
In addition to subscriptions already received from the London friends,
we beg to acknowledge two guineas from Mrs. Catherine Berry.
The whole of the business connected with the fund will be closed at
the meeting in Halifax, and the proceeds, with an album of photographs,
will be sent to Boston the following Tuesday by the Cunard steamship.
On behalf of the committee, John Lamont.
199, London-road, Liverpool.
A STRANGE STORY—SEARCHING FOR HUSBANDS.
Sir,—The phases of Spiritualism are many, and they trench upon
ground occupied by most of the sciences, therefore in calling attention
to circumstances which have a bearing upon psychology in a department
which has not been taken up as yet, I do it as a duty on the part of an
investigator.
In our day it is difficult to understand the reasonableness of all the
prohibitions which the Bible contains against the practice of certain
spiritual performances. We may hazard a conjecture that some of the
rites were so vile that humanity would be degraded by them, even at
that day. The question now arises, are any of these forbidden things
practised to-day ? Travellers in the East may throw seme light upon
this question; but it is my desire to elicit information as to similar
practices in Europe.
A lady whom I knew—Mrs. P.—informs me how she and two of her
cousins tried to find out who should be their husbands. Time, between
eleven and twelve o’clock at night. They set the doors and all means
of access to the house wide open; then they made three small cakes—I
do not wish to say how—and baked them, after which they set the table
and the requisite number of chairs. They then retired from the table
and seated themselves to watch. They had not long to wait, for the
operation of a power commenced almost immediately, but, not in the
manner they had been led to expect.
Two of the ladies saw nothing, but all three heard great noises ; the
other lady saw a spectre coffin glide across the floor, and this lady died
within the year.
The effect upon all of them was such that they could not move until the
disturbances had passed away. This was not the only effect, for it
became known afterwards that it strongly and strangely affected.one
who paid his addresses to the lady who told me of the proceedings. The
gentleman lived some miles apart from the lady, but told her about his
“ feeling so bad” on the night in question. She did not say what she
and her friends had been doing, neither did she ever tell him, even after
marriage.
Is it not against such proceedings as these that some of the Bible
prohibitions are directed ?
We must take into consideration the motives that prompted the
action, and upon their face they bear the impress of a selfish, idle
curiosity, total ignorance of the powers they were calling forth, and a
belief that they would see their “ sweethearts.” There is next the
effect it produced on the man, although several miles away, and the
effect it produced on him was anything but beneficial.
The rite was harmless enough in itself; but all such are not the same,
and I darersay many readers of The Spiritualist will know of many
different rites, and may be able to furnish other facts. Why should the
performance of such an act as I have related produce these early and
powerful effects, certainly dift’erent to those which the operators expected,
both as regarded themselves and in the phenomena which resulted?
The subject is important, and opens a field of research which may
have important bearings upon the Spiritualistic movement.
Is the power in question a beneficent one ? Can it be subjected ?
Thos. Hickling.
OBSERVATION OF FRIVOLOUS MANIFESTATIONS NOT CULTIVATION THEREOF.
Sir,—I am glad to see that Mr. Yarley has met what I conceive to be
Dr. Gully’s misapprehension of his position.
I understood Mr. Yarley to say that even the frivolous side of Spirit¬
ualism is worthy of observation—not that it is worthy of cultivation.
The two things are distinct to my mind, and mark two different stand¬
points.
Mr. Rogers wished to see the religious side cultivated, for the edifica¬
tion of sitters, mediums, and spirits, and deprecated the too great
prominence of lower characteristics. This is the position of the
educator and the moralist. Mr. Varley advocated the correct observa¬
tion of the working of all forms of Spiritualism, without passing judg¬
ment on any. This is the standpoint of the man of science. The
two positions are perfectly compatible, and need not come into collision,
in my opinion. Emily Ktslingbury.
38, Great Russell-street.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS AT ISLINGTON.
Sir,—It may not be uninteresting to your readers if I give a brief
account of some seances for physical manifestations which I have at¬
tended lately, with Mr. E. Bullock, junior, as medium.
The first was a private one, held at the residence of Mr. Cotterell.
Conditions—the medium placed between two strangers, both of whom
afterwards stated that they held him firmly the whole time. Phenomena
—ringing of bells, touches by hands, lights, fans used, and a decanter
transferred from the sideboard to the table.
The second was at the Hall, Church-street, Islington. Conditions—
a circle round the table and an outer circle, all hands held. I was one
of the sitters at the table. In addition to the above-mentioned pheno¬
mena, we had the direct voice, rings taken from one and passed to
others. My head was hit by a bladder, although I had bent it down to
the table, and my hand was taken hold of and lifted up until I could
go no farther, being on tip-toe. I am taller, and have longer arms than
the medium.
The third was at the Islington Hall. Conditions the same as before.
This time I sat next the medium, and placed my foot on his, and my
knee against his; Mr. Starns did the same on the other side. The
light had hardly been put out, when the guitar was heard being moved,
and it soon floated over our heads. The musical box, weighing some
nineteen pounds, was carried to the outer circle, lights were shown, and
one was attached to the bell. Daniel Watts soon greeted us, speaking
in the direct voice, and we felt his hand patting ours and our heads.
At the mental request of several sitters, the musical box was made to
play fast, or stop altogether. Soon after I felt an entirely different hand
touching my head, pulling my hair, and patting me energetically. I
was told it was my Indian guide Lightheart, who was quite delighted
that he was thus able to make his presence known.
In answer to my mental wish, Daniel Watts placed his hand in mine.
I held it firmly, it was gradually withdrawn, until I held one finger
only, which slipped from my grasp like a piece of putty. Lily said
Daniel had materialised it too strongly to allow me to hold all the
fingers as they dissolved, but he was pleased that he had succeeded as
regards one finger. In the light seance for materialisations the medium
was tied with tapes, behind a curtain stretched across a corner of the
room. I sat close to the curtain, outside, with my feet on his. Several
hands appeared at the aperture, one, a lady’s, was said to be that of Mr.
Siam’s mother. Lightheart again materialised his, and put it out so
that I could see it this time, and it was quite brown. My photograph,
which was hanging on the wall inside the cabinet, was taken down, and
handed out to me, and then a picture frame that had been hanging over
it, was also put out and dropped over my head, thus framing the
original instead of the portrait.
That, sir, is my experience. I have noticed a marked increase of
power each time, as also an increased willingness to submit to tests, and
I gladly add my testimony to that already given, as to the remarkable
powers now being developed with Mr. Bullock. E. W. Wallis.
18, Spencer-street, Goswell-road, London.
SPIRITUALISM AND BERKELEYISM.
Sir,—I feel it to be due to Mr. Henry G. Atkinson not to let his
letter pass unnoticed, especially a,s he has been so polite as to compli¬
ment me. Nevertheless, I am somewhat at a loss how to reply. For
after an attentive perusal of Mr. Atkinson’s letter, I find myself in the
position of plain St. Peter with regard to the productions of his brother
Apostle, and am fain to confess that there are some things in it “ hard to
be understood.” I can only hope that I shall not “ wrest them to my
own perdition.” On the first hurried glance I imagined that Mr.
Atkinson had stepped forward as a living vindication of the truth of my
remark, that it might be expected that some thinkers would maintain
the materialistic or quasi-materialistic side in the metaphysical con¬
troversies of a future life. This view was suggested by the criticism he
brings forward on my recent paper, that “it is only creating unnecessary
difficulties to require and suppose another and inner nature and shrine
of consciousness.” More careful consideration, however, has brought
me round to the exactly opposite conclusion. According to Bacon’s
view, which Mr. Atkinson seems to reassert, the spiritual nature of man
is “ neither an organised body nor a compound.” This is what I
myself endeavoured to set forth; only I supposed that the unorganised
substance, to which the name “spirit” should in strict speaking be
appropriated, was accompanied, even after death, by some kind of ex¬
ternal organism, whereby it became manifest to kindred intelligences.
Now, since Mr. Atkinson combats the notion of a distinction between
an inner and an outer nature after death, it is obvious that he must
deny the existence either of one or the other. Not of the inner, for he
maintains that spirit is unorganised; therefore, of the outer. He denies
321, Scotland-road, Liverpool.
214
THU SPIRITUALIST. Mat 5,1876.
then the existence of the spiritual body, which is the mainspring of
Spiritualistic doctrine. Of course we cannot quarrel with any one for
doing so; only it is well to be explicit.
As regards the question of Berkeleyism, I suppose I must also en¬
deavour to say something, though I am greatly averse to “ plucking the
unripe fruit of wisdom,” and giving immature thoughts to the public,
especially a public so intelligent as the circle of readers which this paper
commands.
That Berkeley identifies perception and object, or rather, that he j
regards an object as a synthesis of perceptions, is most true. But there 1
is another side to Berkeley’s philosophy, the side on which he himself
laid most stress, which has been allowed to drop out of sight in subse- j
quent Idealism. Berkeley did not rest in perceptions as ultimate facts,
as his followers are given to do. Let us see the exact point of difference
between himself and his antagonists. Common sense says there is an
external reality, the cause of our sensations. “Yes,” says Bishop j
Berkeley, “ and this external reality is God.” Orthodox philosophers
maintained that the Deity acted upon human perceptions through the | j
intervention of a something called “matter.” The peculiarity of L
Berkeley’s system was that he left nothing intermediate between the i(
mind and its Maker. There was nothing anywhere but the voice of God j j
speaking to the spirit of man. A little explanation of this matter, j
though trite, is perhaps admissible. After Locke had written, people |
already began to be a little mystified about the nature of matter. It i j
was generally conceded that what are called “ secondary qualities ” of j)
matter, such as colour, light, heat, sound, taste, smell, and so on, j(
which are believed to depend on the shape and arrange- n
ment of its ultimate particles, were not resident in external j/
objects, but only in the mind which perceived them. What did really j(
exist outside of us was a certain configuration, arrangement, and motion i)
of atoms. To diverse combinations of atoms when brought into contact j)
with a sentient being, the ideas of the secondary qualities were by j(
Divine power attached. There was still, we see, a certain amount of i
reality left to external objects, for Locke himself maintained that the j(
“ primary qualities,” namely, extension, figure, solidity, and mobility do i|
exist, as we perceive them, in something outside of us, and are no j>
way contingent upon our minds. Every particle of matter, however \(
minute, was possessed of all these properties. It had extension in three IJ
dimensions, occupying a certain portion of space; had figure of some i (
sort; was either in motion or rest; and was solid or impenetrable, that I (
is to say, no other particle of matter could occupy the same space as j)
itself at the same time. There was a real world then outside of us, j/
which would exist if we and all our like were gone. But what a j(
world! a grey shadow, having form, but colourless, void of light, K
void of genial warmth, and plunged in everlasting:night. Encomiasts of ji
nature are wont to tell us how she lavishes her gifts regardless of man’s j(
presence; how in wildernesses, untrodden by human feet, the birds n|
pour their music on the air and spread their varied plumage, the breezes |)|
murmur through the trees, the melody of the waters sounds in the i(j
valleys, gay insects flaunt their colours in the sunlight, while a thousand i | j
flowers display their tints and lade the unregarding air with odours, hi
Now the fact is, Locke would say, that these sights and sounds of |<j
beauty are not there. The animals indeed have a world of their j[i
own—a world of secondary qualities, such as their puny brains
will contain. But man being absent, man’s world is not. The m
colours are no more than an arrangement of atoms; nature’s j' I
music is mechanical motion; the scent of the flowers, a fume
of particles. This, then, was what Locke left us — a belief in
a certain configuration, arrangement, and motion of particles, as
the only absolute existence outside of ns; all else being relative to the
human faculties. Berkeley, coming after him, declared that he ought ijj
either to have gone farther or else not so far. He had left us committed
to a philosophical belief in one world, while our senses presented to us
another. The senses of sight, hearing, taste, and smell had fallen
victims to Locke, and had been obliged to confess their imposition ; all
the qualities that came through them were abstracted from matter, and | (|
referred to mind. But he had respected the sense of touch. The jjj
qualities with which that sense makes us acquainted, to wit, extension, j(!
form, and solidity, were certainly external to and independent of us. HI
“ Seeing is believing, but touching is the truth.” Berkeley, however, !>!
laid hands on the sense of touch, denied independent externality of the HI
properties of bodies which it presents to us, thus sending the primary Hi
after the secondary qualities; in fact, made a clean sweep of matter,
and left mind standing out as the one great fact of the universe. But, j \ \
while abolishing matter as believed in by his opponents, he declared i; i
that he was restoring it as believed in by the vulgar. For do the vulgar
distinguish between the secondary and the primary qualities of matter? Hj
Do they believe that the form is in the object, and the colour in their K|
minds ? No: they believe that the object itself has both shape and 11 i
colour. And they are right, says the bishop, for the shape and the | (i
colour, and all other qualities, not only exist in, but constitute the hi
object. The object, and our perception of the object, were in his view |)|
one and the same. But if Berkeley agreed with the unthinking vulgar i(|
who accepted matter as they found it, he also agreed with the pliilo- hj
sophers in holding that there must be some cause of our perceptions. j)j
Oiily he maintained that that cause was active, not passive. It was, in lyi
fact, the Will of God. He saw nothing gained by interposing a passive, hi
unintelligent agent between the Divine Will and its effect. j)j
Now, when I spoke of recent psychological discoveries having given Kj,
such startling support to Berkeley’s theory of existence, what I had in hi
my mind was principally the phenomena of mesmerism. There we see \U
transacted on a small scale what Berkeley supposes to take place on a jyi
large one. The patient under control is thrown into a world of the |)|
mesmerist’s creation; every one of his senses is supplied with its Hi
object; he can bring none of them to detect the fallacy of the others. j(i
But the mesmerist’s effort of will is temporary and confined in its jJj
\\ action; and so we call the patient’s state a delusion: the Divine Will is
)i continuous and universal, and we call the world around us a reality,
j St. George Stock.
(i SPIRITUALISM IN LANCASHIRE.
(\ Sir,—As one of the executive members of “The Lancashire Spirit-
(j ualist Committee ” of working Spiritualists, I have great pleasure in
j i calling the attention of the readers of The Spiritualist to its work and pro-
\\ gress in the various towns in Lancashire and surrounding districts, also
(j to the schemes for the further development and extension of this useful
)j undertaking. Meetings and literature on Spiritualism and its teach-
(I ings have been carried to many towns and some thousands of people
(j who before were quite in ignorance of the fact, and the majority even
j of the name, of Spiritualism. To give more than mere verbal instruc-
j tions how to form a circle, ten thousand hymn papers were printed for
) j the various meetings, with Emma Hardinge’s rules for forming spirit
j circles on the back; these papers were given gratuitously to every
person attending the meetings, thus they had a double shot in the shape
of a trance or normal address, and rules how to investigate the matter
at their leisure, and most particularly at their own homes, where
trickery, collusion, or conjuring could not be the cause of any pheno¬
mena that might take place under the instructions and conditions laid
down in the papers.
In many places where for the first time these meetings, or any
Spiritualist meetings whatever, have been held, a vigorous correspond¬
ence has sprung up in the local papers, which has always been well de¬
fended and ventilated by the Spiritualists in the district; this alone has
been the means of introducing the subject to many intelligent minds
which otherwise would have been left in entire ignorance of the subject.
To carry on and further develope this useful work, it is proposed at
the next Conference, to be held at Manchester May 7th, 1876, to
establish a guarantee fund value £500, to cover a period of five
years, being £100 per year. Of this sum £50 per year will be expended
in literature and pamphlets, to be sold, and partly given gratuitously, at
the various meetings, and £50 per year will be devoted to lectures, &c.
If this scheme be well supported by Spiritualists and friends of
the cause, future committees will be able successfully to establish
the foundation for the spread of Spiritualism in every town,
village and district throughout Lancashire and surrounding counties.
Yorkshire has now joined in this work, inaugurating it by a conference
held at Halifax on Good Friday last, where plans were laid down for
their guidance by members of the Lancashire committee, whose practical
knowledge of this kind of work will greatly help them in the formation
of their committee. The Lancashire committee now consists of about
forty members, representing towns in the three counties of Lancashire,
Cheshire, and Derbyshire. After the formation and adoption of the
£500 guarantee fund, the members might be increased to extend over a
wider field of action. To the Spiritualists who subscribe to this fund
the following will explain the system:—If £5 be promised, then the
subscriber will pay £l per year, or 5s. per quarter; if £1 be promised,
then 4s. per year, or Is. per quarter; and so on, whatever may be the
sum promised, from £l and upwards. As this committee acts inde¬
pendently, and in union with all societies and sections, it claims the
attention of all Spiritualists and friends who have sympathy for the
cause and prosperity of the work of the Lancashire committee.
John Hartley.
Hyde, April 29th, 1876.
RCBLIUS SYRUS.
Sir,—I do not despair of even Mr. St. George Stock himself giving
in to the genuineness of the spirit who, calling himself Publius Syrus,
has now given me four distinct communications in Latin, or, to be more
strictly accurate, three to me in Latin, and one to Count de Bullet in
French, as being one of the moral sentences left by him, the correctness
of which I verified at the National Library. These communications I
venture to repeat, because collectively they so much strengthen the pre¬
sumption which any one singly would go far to justify :—
1. —Pecunice oportet imperes, non servias (to Bullet).
2. — Quos vult perdere Jupiter dementat.
3. —Lux, lux veritatis ! Quid semper fug is ? Sequimur, invocamus,
sed semper passus nostri voluntarii tor quent viam.
4. — Veritas recta brevis Pens (the last three to me).
Mr. St. G. Stock began by arguing that the No. 2 could not have been
from Publius Syrus, because dementare (to make mad) was not found in
any author of his purely classical age, and appeared only in the much
later non-classical Christian writer, Lactantius, and there as an intran¬
sitive verb ; i.e., with the meaning, to be mad. He candidly cited the
proper form of the intransitive dementirc, as appearing in Lucretius,
enough to stamp it as good classical Latin. I replied that usage and
analogy marked out dementare as the natural and proper Latin form for
the expression of the idea to make mad, while dementire, by the same
usage and analogy, was the proper form for that of to be mad; and
suggested that the word in Lactantius was probably a copyist’s error,
than which nothing was more common. I might have greatly fortified
that suggestion if I had had at hand at the moment a Facciolati from
which I might have quoted from his own Lactantius another passage,
showing that he perfectly understood dementire as the proper form of the
intransitive, and therefore was little likely to have committed the bar¬
barism of dementabat as an intransitive, namely, “ Instinctu dcemonis
percitus, dementit, effertur, insanity I also pointed out—what the
honest, as well as the able, pen of Mr. St. G. Stock now frankly con¬
cedes—that the extremely fragmentary character of such relics of the
classical age proper as have come down to us, deprives of much force
the argument that a word did not exist because it does not happen
May 5, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST
215
to appear in those surviving relics, while, if the word in dispute j
was in accordance with the rules of usage and analogy, it is probable ]
that it did exist in the speech of Rome, just as hundreds and thousands
of good and true English words in daily London use, would not be found
in the English “ classics ” if two thousands of years hence there should j
only survive manuscript fragments of a few such authors as Shakespeare j
and Spenser, Byron and Dickens. Mr. St. George Stock impeached !
my statement of the rule of usage in regard to the verbs in are and ire, j
and now considers that he did so with such success as to authorise him j
to say “ Mr. O’Sullivan’s plea for its existence (dementare) as a transitive
verb on the ground of analogy, I think I have sufficiently shown, in
another letter, to be groundless.” He will kindly pardon me if I venture
to demur to this; but since he thus recurs to it, I must justify my
“ plea.” This, however, I prefer to consign to the separate form of
another letter, which your general readers may have the more con¬
venience in skipping. I shall leave the conclusion, on this dry etymo¬
logical question, to your Latinist readers. I am more than half inclined
to leave it to my critic himself.
What is really interesting to Spiritualists is the question whether this
was really Publius Syrus or not, who communicated under that name
the four Latin sentences referred to. If not himself, it was necessarily,
I repeat, some lying spirit familiar with his works, and a perfect Latinist,
who in that case must be not less blasphemously hypocritical than
impudently mendacious—two of his sentences being to the eulogy of
Truth in the highest, since he says in effect that Truth is God. Mr. St.
George Stock does not admit the necessity of this alternative between
the real Publius Syrus redivivus (or rather still living) and a personating
impostor, though he confesses that “ it is difficult to throw any third
theory into shape.” But he then shadows forth faint outlines of some
ghost of an idea about a person’s “memory” (seeming to mean mine)
being transmitted or reflected to — what, or whom ? I can only guess
at a glimmer of a meaning from what then follows: “There may be
psychological laws which compel the intelligence with which we are
brought into contact by Spiritualism, to throw itself into the form of
some personality congenial to the mental attitude of the person commu¬
nicating.” By this “intelligence with which we are brought into
contact ” does Mr. St. G. Stock mean a “ spirit ? ” If so, why not say
so ? Does he mean that this “ intelligence ” or spirit, as we plain and
straightforward people call it, takes its knowledge out of my supposed
unconscious memory, and a “ form of some personality ” from my
“ mental attitude?” But that theory conflicts with the facts, as I have
before set them forth. It was not to me, nor in any wise through me,
that this “Publius Syrus” first appeared, but to Count Bullet and
through a lady medium, both unacquainted with Latin and with his
name, while my part was merely to hunt up in his works (of which I
can swear that I never in my life read a page) the original of that which
he gave in French, for the declared purpose of indicating, and at the
same time of proving, who and what he was. If Mr. St. George Stock
will insist (in spite of my protestations that the thing was not so, and
was impossible) that I unconsciously either remembered or composed,
and then reflected to the “intelligence” with which I was brought into
contact the last three of the four Latin sentences, which did come
through me {i.e., which were dictated to me), I cannot help his mind
playing about that or any other fantastic supposition which may be
“ congenial to his mental attitude; ” but even the license of fancy or of
dream cannot go the length of thus explaining away the first one, which
did not come through me at all—to which I was a total stranger till it
was brought to me for explanation. And even the last three, which did
come through me, are not quotations from the fragments we have of the
writings of Publius Syrus. They are in prose, and neither iambic nor
trochaic lines, and I presume the third and fourth to be either citations
from lost portions of his prose writings, or else new compositions of his
own; the second is that time-worn text, the authorship of which has
been hitherto unknown, and of which the exact form is as given above
by himself when now declaring it to have come down by oral tradition
from him.
To Spiritualists, who know that disincamated spirits do exist and
often communicate with us, the evidence is, I submit, conclusive that
this really is Publius Syrus. I can discover no flaw in the case, on the
intrinsic evidence, while we have also the good and revered Glaucus
confirming the identity. To those who say, with Sir David Brewster,
that “ spirit is the last thing they will give in to”—who act, if they do not
say, “ Perish proof, perish logic, perish belief in any human testimony
to facts, rather than accept spirits ”—or who, simply ignoring the whole
matter, are proud in their ignorance (having, as Dr. Johnson said, a
great deal to be proud of)—to those I have nothing to say, nor is it to
them I address myself. Not many years divide the youngest of them
from the time when they will find it all out for themselves. In the
meanwhile we Spiritualists can well afford to smile at their theory that
we are all fools in our reasonings and liars as to our facts.
But I am far from classing Mr. St. George Stock among such. The
respect I profess for him is no vain phrase of courtesy in controversy.
I think he is farther gone, if not in, yet towards, the acceptance of the
sweet and sacred truth of Spiritualism than he himself yet knows. I
rather suspect that he thus fights hard against the genuineness of the
Publius Syrus, whom it has fallen to me to introduce into our literature,
less in the spirit of one resolved not to be convinced than in that of
that respectable and useful functionary, the avocato di Diavolo, whose
official duty it is to resist to the last, and by all conceivable arguments,
the canonisation of a new Catholic saint.
Time has been when I myself fought off in my own mind, in a similar
way, that to which evidence compelled me at last to yield. And I can
wish Mr. St. George Stock nothing better on this earth than the
supreme blessedness of arrival at the same eventual conclusion.
Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
THE CLAIRVOYANCE OF THE BLIND.
Sir,—If you can afford me a little of your valuable space, I should
like to ask of your numerous experienced correspondents and readers, if
they can inform me of any instance in which a person horn blind, and
who had never gained the sense of sight by the visual organs, had
possessed the faculty of clairvoyance, whether in somnambulic, spon¬
taneous, or induced trance, or in cataleptic seizure ? and, if so, what
was the nature of the descriptions given by such subjects of colour,
form, light, &c. ? H. Yenman.
20, Pimlico-road, S.W., April 29th, 1870.
PROGRESS IN SPIRIT LIFE.
Sir,—The communications of the spirit claiming to be Mr. Guppy,
obtained by Mr. Gledstanes through Mme. Veh (No. 191 of your
Spiritualist) are of paramount interest, not only to the friends of the
deceased—who cannot but be struck by the many incontrovertible indi¬
cations of his personal identity—but to all inquirers into Spiritualism,
who cannot but appreciate the manifestation of the singular state of
mind through which the spiritual man Guppy appears to view his
progress and ulterior development. The candid confession of his own
“ nothingness ” I consider to be a happy prognostic of a certain advance.
It confirms the conviction that unbiassed reflection (what the French
call recueillement) is needed to reach the neutral ground from which
real progress has to start.
When meditating upon the deeper hints about the insufficiency of his
intelligence in his terrestrial form, which he calls “ my proud, inflated
ignorance, called intelligence,” we feel justified in thinking that most of
those daring theorists who, like our friend, when constructing his
“ Mary Jane” hypothesis, are bold enough to swamp the poor intellect
of the public by an arrogant fiction of their own brain, and by the
grotesque products of their inflated self-admiration, will, when re¬
awakening on the other side of the Styx, find themselves, in the best
case, in somewhat the state so graphically described by our departed
friend. This state of impotency and bereavement, which, according to
the Guppy confession, is the lot of all those who neglected the oppor¬
tunities given them while on earth, and of which the confessions of the
spirit Voltaire, as reported years ago from America, gives confirmatory
information, is of course not only that of the more or less conspicuous
Spiritualists who in the United States and in England by their wanton
speculations, or by incoherent and mystifying communications of would-
be advanced spirits, mislead the staring public—not to mention the
deluded folliculaires who follow the erratic track of reincarnationism—
but it is manifestly also the lot of the scientific antagonists of Spirit¬
ualism, and of a great many of the wiseacres who call their entangled
sophistry “ philosophy,” and who honour their prejudices and sensuous
phantasmata by calling them the science, exclusively rational. Allow
me, in conformity with the exempla illustrant, to make a quotation from
the recently published old ideas of the not always successful explorer,
Captain R. F. Burton. Among Spiritualists he is famous for the words
he publicly pronounced when, after several inquiring seances with the
Davenports, having ascertained that there were no tricks or delusions,
he declared “ if any thing could persuade him to risk the leap from
natural to spiritual causes, it would be the inconceivable absurdity of the
explanations by which the antagonists of Spiritualism tried to explain
the phenomena.” This unpersuaded doubter, though acknowledging the
truth of the facts, states his views in his Trips to Gorilla Land (London,
1876, 2 vols), page 90 of the Istvol., in the following way : “Nothing
can be more illogical than the awe and respect claimed by Mr. Herbert
Spencer for a being of which the very essence is that nothing can be
known of it. As the idea grows, the several modes and forms of the
Unknowable, the Ormuzd and the Ahriman of the Dualist, whose per¬
sonifications of good and evil lose force and significance, making place for
that laic, of which they are the rude exponents. The marvellous spread
of Spiritualism, whose God is the Unknowable, and whose prophet
was Swedenborg, is but the polished forms of the ‘ Mpongive Hambo and
Hoga,’ of negro superstition. Beneficent phantasms have succeeded to
the malevolent ghosts, as the God of Jove formerly took the place of the
God of fear. The future of Spiritualism may be defined as ‘ Hades
with Progress.’ The very vagueness of the modern faith assimilates it
to its most ancient forms, which we are studying on the Gaboon river.
Fetichism is the first dawn of a faith in things not seen—the super¬
natural. It must be studied without preconceived ideas. Africans
believe not in soul or spirit, but in ghost—which is a subject of fear
and awe.”
Captain Burton shows a fair specimen of that ignorance which
neglects all opportunities of getting at spiritual tiuth, and of developing
that intelligence which certainly in great profusion has been bestowed
upon him. Instead of profiting by the use of the talent given to his
care, he prefers abiding in a state of doubt, the consequence of which is
so accurately described by the Guppy spirit. The communications
from this spirit corroborate the opinion that good and reliable informa¬
tion may be derived from the next world. Howsoever important the
benefit may be, which the well-authenticated mere facts are calculated
to bestow on mankind, it always remains uncertain whether the mind
of man is prepared and disposed to draw right and practical conclu¬
sions from them. The communications themselves, persuasive and
comforting as they often are, will supply means and motives where the
mere facts are ineffective. But the sine qua non for making the communi¬
cations beneficial is a firm faith in spiritual truth itself. The communi¬
cations may confirm such faith, and assist in developing the geims of it.
But unless man is prepared to discern the spirits, and to test them
according to truth, independently of their sayings and teachings, the
ground is always unsafe, serpens latei in herbis, and intense critical
examination is needed to avoid dangers and misleading delusions.
We know that spirits generally interpret and elaborate the false views
216
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 5, 1876.
and tendencies of those they control. It is thus a happy circumstance
that Captain Burton is not an inquisitive medium, who would get queer
communications from African medicine men. Better to wait until he
himself is able to coanmunicate from the region he now thinks to be
unknowable. D. H.
Pinneberg, Holstein, April 30th, 1876.
DEWDROPS FROM THE SPIRIT LAND.
A SPIKIT MESSAGE THROUGH THE MEDIUMSHIP OF A LADY.
“Heaven is in you, according to your powers of reception. The h
higher you advance spiritually, the higher heavenly joys may you taste, i J
These always flow into hearts receptive. God never withholds happi- 11
ness, which is the life and breath of His being, from any creature: the :1
gift of life insures the gift of happiness. All have happiness: the j J
tiniest insect sporting in the evening breeze in shady hollows—the j'i
minnow in its shallow pool—the blind earthworm in its toilsome groove |1
—the swallow skimming across your lawns—or the eagle soaring above I (
the haunts of men—each enjoys that happiness which is inseparable 11
from life, according to the capacities of its being. Wherever we look, i j
hapjnness, the happiness of life, and heaven is nothing more nor less, t|
may be seen. j I
“ This external world, the outgrowth of the inner world of thought, j!
the panorama of the Divine mind, constantly changing, constantly pro- 11
greasing, bearing on its surface the impress of the Divine plan, and, j i
therefore, thought—this world presents, in all its varying aspects of j
life (animal, vegetable, and mineral), only a picture of happiness. You j <
may see it in the stately lily, gathering its fragrance in a spotless cup i i
for favoured ones; in the nestling violet, attracting by its hidden sweet- ;
ness; in the lowly pansy, known as such, with open-hearted sincerity :
spreading its rich petals with ever-smiling welcome; in the queenly rose, I (
whose sweet heart-breath never dies, but hangs in the air e’en above j j
its very dust; all the vegetable kingdom—towering trees, waving reeds,' i
mosses, and grasses, velveting the sunset-turned hill-sides—all speak i
to you the poem of happiness, heaven, beauty. Only man has power to 11
pervert, obstruct, deform, or destroy this happiness, this heaven, ij
Created in the image of his Maker—-free, he may lift the desecrating !
hand if he so wills, and change the Divine purpose. From him a^one j)
has sprung, and can spring, the opposite to heaven, with all its demon i
ugliness and death. He is the origin of his own destruction, and may : j
be the origin of his own salvation, the artificer of his own heaven. God i)
is the cause of his being; but man is absolutely free to make or mar his |
own happiness as he wills, according to the knowledge he possesses. | j
This soul God-proceeding must return unto God, and along the road he i j
wages a desperate battle with ignorance, leaving behind him the wrecks j (
and ruins of his blind mistakes, and many a fair monument and memo- ! |
rial of his triumphs, until the crown of divinity, won by hard toil through |)
many lives, glitters on his brow, and he stands ripened to angelhood, j (
with God-like mind, heaven-producing, and heaven-encircled.”
The Times of April 18th, says of the performances of Messrs j j
Maskelyne and Cooke—“ They suffice to bewilder and amuse audiences |
whose principal wish is to be amused, and whose interest in Spiritualism i
is m'Z.” ij
Mr. Robert Dale Owen is now in Philadelphia, and will shortly I
visit England. The Spiritual Scientist says that M. Aksakof still ij
upholds his engagement of Dr. Slade, who consequently will go to St. i
Petersburg, and visit England en route.
A Diabolical Romance.—Can Mr. Epes Sargent, of Boston, give any :
information about the following story, which we extract from The Echo \ j
(London) daily newspaper, of April 2nd, 1870 : “Boston (Massachusetts) i|
has a really sensational story. Recently, in a town hard by, a public ]j
ball was given. The daughter of a couple who keep a boarding-house |j
set her heart on going, and in company with one of the boarders, desig- j j
nated J—. The girl’s parents objected to her going to the ball, espe- jj
daily in company with J—, but she said that she was determined to go, j
and that if she could not go with J—, she would ‘ accept the company j
of the devil should he offer to attend her.’ On the night of the ball she i
slipped out of the house in proper trim, except that she had to buy i
boots for the occasion; and, having procured these, she was returning i
to put them on, when she met J—, as she supposed, and he persuaded |
her to go with him to the ball at once, and change her boots in the 11
ladies’ dressing-room. J— was her partner in the first dance, but i
afterwards disappeared until supper-time, then suddenly presenting jj
himself, with rather frivolous excuses for his absence, and inviting her i j
down to the supper-room. Offended by his neglect, she said she would ijj
return home at once, and he attended her thither. Very little was said ijj
by either party until they had nearly reached the house, when J— ijj
informed his companion that he was not going in ; and, presenting her jjj
with a beautiful pearl-handled penknife, and asking her, when she used ijj
it, to think of him, he suddenly left her. The girl, on telling her jjj
mother all that had passed, was astounded at learning that J— had not jjj
been out of the house since early nightfall, and went to bed before the ijj
hour at which the ball began. The girl refused to believe it; but, after jjj
some discussion, her mother took her to J—’s room, and there he was jjj
seen calmly and profoundly sleeping. Nothing more could be said, and jjj
the daughter retired for the night. A strange sound shortly afterwards ijj
brought the mother to the girl’s chamber, and she was found with her j j
throat cut with the penknife given to her by her companion at the ball, jjj
She lingered until noon, and then died, declaring that, remembering ijj
what she had said in her determination to go to the dance, she used the ijj
knife because she was overwhelmed by horrible suspicions as to who it ijj
was that, personating J—, became her partner. The Boston Post iji
declares that these statements are all strictly true, and can be vouched ijj
for by the very best authority
Tragical Results of Hallucination.—The Standard of April 20th
narrates how a medical man named Charles Grimes, suffering from
delirium tremens, and about twenty-six years of age, had lodgings at
57, Euston-square, London, and on April 25th the other lodgers were
awoke by loud knocking, followed by crashes, as if he were breaking up
the furniture in his room. A policeman was called and attempted to
break open the door with an iron bar, when the man inside shot a bullet
through the panel of the door. Sergeant Pearson and police-constable
Stone were then called in, and when they broke open the door Sergeant
Pearson was shot through the wrist of his right hand, also just above
the hip. The second constable, Stone, received a shot in his abdomen.
A button broke the force of the bullet, thus saving his life. The man
Grimes was then secured, and the pistol was found to be a five-cham¬
bered revolver. He is now in the insane ward of St. Pancras work-
house, and in the course of an interview he said that he was a surgeon
by profession. He took a4furnished apartment at the house, No. 57,
Euston-square, where he occupied the second floor back room. Soon
after he went there he discovered that the apartment under his was
occupied by a mesmerist, who had a lot of people with him. He
was made very uncomfortable by means of what he afterwards found
out were wires connected with galvanic batteries introduced through
the ceiling of the lower room and the floor into his apartment. By
these wires the mesmerist would fill his room with a stupefying
vapour, which he found affected his brain, and which for a long while
he could not account for. He had taken the wires passing into his room
for bell wires, and, therefore, did not attempt to remove them. But his
suspicions were aroused as to their character by ascertaining that the
man below was a mesmerist. He had overheard a good deal of the con¬
versation that went on in that room ; some of it related to himself and
property they found out that he had in his baggage. On Monday
night he went to bed, and about half-past two or three in the morn¬
ing he was awoke by the talking in the room below between the
mesmerist, the medium, and others. On listening he distinctly heard
them entering into a plan to rob him. He heard the medium tell
them in what part of the baggage his pocket-book and other property
was, and that they could come up stairs and get it while he was asleep.
Hearing this, he immediately jumped out of bed and locked
his room door, and then loaded his five-barrelled revolver,
which he always carried with him loaded when travel¬
ling. Presently he heard them coming up stairs, and then they
knocked at the door, and said they wanted to tell him something. It
was he who first shouted for police out of the back window. They
then shook his door more violently, and threatened to burst it open, on
which he warned them that he was armed, that he knew what their
object was; that the first who entered would be shot. In a few
minutes they began to break open the door with a crowbar, or some¬
thing, and as they entered he fired, and he did not know when he did so
that it was at a policeman. He then heard a voice, which he believed
to be the landlord’s, call out to rush upon him, and as they rushed in—
six or seven in all—he fired his revolver anyhow, all round. He then
said, pressing his hand to his forehead, “ You may suppose I was very
much excited, and had no idea it was the police till after I had fired;
but you see I soon found out,” pointing to his nose, and showing his
arms and the bruises on his legs. “ I am sorry to say,’’ he added, “ I
fear one of the balls severely injured one man. I heard two others
were struck, but I don’t think they were much hurt. After battering
me about a good deal, as you see, they brought me here, and I do not
know what they are going to do with me. I shall be exceedingly sorry
if the poor man, whom I believe to be wounded, is much injured.”
This statement was made without the slightest evidence that the unfor¬
tunate man was labouring under any delusion.
Odio Flames from Magnets.—At the last of the fortnightly meet¬
ings of the members of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, towards the close of the proceedings, the secretary produced
two photographs which had just been presented to the Association by
Mr. Henry Collen, and which he stated to have been obtained in a dark
box by the action of odic flames from magnets. The method of their
production was not described. Mr. Harrison said that in conjunction
with Mr. Yarley and Mr. Blackburn, he had made some hundreds of
experiments in the attempt to photograph the odic flames from magnets
which had been seen by Baron Reichenbach’s sensitives. He used
both permanent and electro-magnets, and at the outset obtained results
exactly similar in appearance to those produced by Mr. Collen, but
after obtaining them set to work to find out their cause. He discovered
them to be due to the close proximity of any solid object to a moist
photographic plate. He removed the poles of the magnet by means of
which he had at first obtained the results, and substituted two dummy
poles, made of wood, with the result that the same photographic images
were obtained as when the magnet had been there. He then cut pat¬
terns on the surface of a flat block of wood, which he placed within a
small fraction of an inch in front of the photographic plate, and he
found that he could photograph these patterns without the presence of
any magnet, for the result was not due to magnetism, or to light, but to
unequal evaporation or radiation from the surface of the sensitive plate,
so that one part of it would decompose the developer before the other.
The details of many of these experiments were described by him in an
article published many months ago in the British Journal of Photo¬
graphy. He had no doubt that if anybody would repeat Mr. Collen’s
experiments, closely following all his instructions, but removing the
magnet altogether, they would obtain the images just the same as if the
magnet had been there. He would forward the Association a copy
of his article in the British Journal of Photography to attach to the photo¬
graphs just presented, that the public might not be misled by the fruits
of a scientific mistake. Mr. Collen was greatly to be praised for his
attempt to solve an important scientific problem, and he hoped that he
would be successful in evolving results.
May 5, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not In any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, ■ by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wai-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epcs Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestor's of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—^"Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man In the flesh as thev would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Antl-
Supematural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. i2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens - these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinioh that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'tnunpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote 'during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Bussell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam, fis
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 560 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration¬
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DflVIS
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1706. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s..
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,"
Nature’s Divine Revelations
he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
i ■ ii.
in,
iv. „ .
.. v. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy pf Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .
s. d.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
d.
24 O
Oriental Religions (Johnson)
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 o
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . ..50
History of American Socialisms '(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . , . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen. 7 0
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 fl
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatoiy Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M. A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by[ James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ' 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by tlie Rev. John Pam, B. A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 .6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF 'WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Isf
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas E.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is. 1
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO-
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
HaUock, 2s.
.V
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 5, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Bepi'esenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News-^
paper Branch Office, i)8, Great Bussell-street, Bloomshury,-’
London, 'W.e.
' [For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her-
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY and BiCH. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
‘ Life-Experiences', Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning, the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria .M. King. Cloth,
5s. Gd. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVEB SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Beimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F B S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and hisassietant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally.; A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, Gjd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office. .
STRANGE YISITORS—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Beligion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Bichter, Hawthorne, .Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, (Is.
Colby- and Bich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
W0BLD AND THE NEXT. By Bobert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles Jrad. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, j et which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms thatthestrongest
of all historical evidences for modem Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings frOm a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister for over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is fiee'to discuss all subjects untrammeled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
It contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office.
Published at 7s. 6d. Beduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
oceorring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Boyal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlio, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee fur the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Eugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an!mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my .curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other poinis there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Beduced . in price to 4s,
Inland Postage,-(Spiriitialisf Newspaper Branch Office. - ’
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE OBOWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
L—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just be«n issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. Gd. each, post free 11s. Gd., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper-Branch Office.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,-
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PEICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale \>y vendors of spiritual literature,- and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOB ADVEETISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publicalion will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
’ AH communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Bue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
REFLEXIONEN AUS DER GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Eeeord of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda*
Pesth: Jo:efstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London:
The.Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Brancn Office.
In Two Vols., 8vo. cloth, price 28s.
A PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE ON THE
Jr\_ NATUBE AND CONSTITUTION OF MAN. By
Geobgb Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Vice-President of the Psy-
chological Society and of the Anthropological Institute, and
author of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisation considered
as a Science,” <fcc. This work embraces a comprehensive and
complete survey of the nature and constitution of man
physical, moral, and intellectual, exhibiting moreover the
mutual connection and dependence of each branch. Topics
connected with the spiritual being, and the leading opimons
on this subject, including the nature, essence, propertits, and
mode of operation, of the soul; the alliance between matter
and spirit; reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity
are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of our
intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution, mode
of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the topics here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, phy¬
siology] and natural history, have been in correspondence
with, and have been consulted by the author, by several of
whom notes of much interest and value, on different important
controverted points, have been contributed.
London: G. Bell & Sons, York-street, Oovent-garden. 1876.
By Royal Letters Patent.
1KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PBO MOTES THE GBOWTH OF THE HAIB, AND
IMPABTS TO IT A HEALTHY BBILLIANOY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
BESTOBES TO GBEY HATE ITS OEIGINAL COLOUE.
. It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.""
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
- Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. Gd. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Bouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE:
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Borne, Italy.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A, 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W.
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J, Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Begent’s-
■ park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq., M.D.. 8 Great Ormond-street, W.C.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Bussell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.B.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-plaee, Portman-square.
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westboume-
pai’k.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4, Castledine road, Anerly, S.E.
W. J. Williams, Esq., Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Subscriptions will be received and duly acknowledged by
the Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square,
South Kensington; or by the Hon. Secretary, A. Joy, Esq.,
Junior United Service Club, St. James’s, S.W.
rpHE ALPHA ; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE H UMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenxum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the ■worldL.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
TPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
1 PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Beligion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in nr at wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and'
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most-important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety, of forms to’
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
istsinallthe English-speaking countries throughout the Globe: it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its . pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.B.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden) ; The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Bobert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent;(Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church (Florence Mariyat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Ediii.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St: George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Beimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”!; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox Loudon ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. sH. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States) ;• Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemeh.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. 10d
To residents in the United States, '4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place;
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, London
W.C.”
[December, 1875.]   
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwodd’s Bents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. ALLEN, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
