AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 71.—(Vol. IY.—No. 1.) LONDON: JANUARY 2, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
tottfentsu
Mr. Crookes on Spiritual Phenomena     1
Lord Amberley on Spiritualism        3
Lavater’s Letters to the Empress Marie of Russia.—Letter III.: On
the Immortality of the Soul...  H  , 5
Spiritualism and Materialism ... ...         5
Remarkable Seance with Mr. Williams  ... ... 6
The Lady of Burnham-green .......     ... ...    7
The New Australian Spiritual Newspaper.—Spiritualism in its Relations
to Orthodoxy     ... ... ... ... 1.. ■'... 8
Spiritualism in India     ... ...   9
Healing of the Sick by Psychological Power   9
Dr. Slade’s Mediumship      10
Correspondence.—Materialisations through the Mediumship of Miss
Showers   _   ... ... ... ... 11
Mrs. Tappan’s Experiences     ;  12
Answers to Correspondents ... ...  ... ... ... 12
Paragraphs.—A Challenge; National Association      12
Crown 8vo. pp. 128, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m:, at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evenino Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
Now ready, No. 41, January, 1874, price 5s.,
THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF SCIENCE. Edited
by William Crookes, F.R.S., &c. This Number contains an article
by the Editor, entitled, “Notes of an Enquiry into the Phenomena called
Spiritual during the Years 1870-1873.”
London: 3, Horseshoe-court, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. . (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Trecs irer. m
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2., What am I?
3., The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
; chap, -
•24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review. . - > -• >* S'j \
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald. .
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader Who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
 London: Lon&man and Co., Paternoster-row.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected.4 Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays' from 10 till 9, and ,on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
"PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
J_ ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1874.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
. SPIRITUALISM, (established 1870.)
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The Council have much pleasure in announcing to the Public that
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
MRS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN
(Inspirational Spirit Medium)
WILL DELIVEU THE FOURTH ANNUAL PUBLIC LECTURE
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
ON SPIRITUALISM,
ON TUESDAY EVENING, 20th JANUARY, 1874,
AT THE LUXEMBOURG HALL.
(Opposite the Dalston Junction Station, North London Railway.)
The chair will be taken by J. C. Luxmoore, Esq.
Doors open at half-past seven o’clock; the Lecture to commence at eight
precisely, previous- to which the audience is respectfully requested to be
seated.
ADMISSION.
Reserved Seats ...   ... .* ;..." ..; Is.
Body of Hall and Balcony    6d.
Members of the Association   Free.
Tickets can be obtained of Mr. Thomas Wilks, Circulating Library,
Dalston-lane, E.; Mr. Geo. Blyton, 12, Forest-road, Dalston, E.; Mr. Sami.
Gittins, 14, Spurstowe-road, Hackney, E.; Mr. Jos. Stephens, 16, Templar
road, Hackney, E.; Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico,
S.W.; Mr. Thos. Blyton, 12, High+street, Bow, E.; at the Rooms of the
Association,1 74, Navarino-road, D'alston, E.; and at the Doors of the Hall
on the evening of the Lecture.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Now Ready, Price Sixpence.
G
OD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation to
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A Discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon, Glasgow, on Sunday
Evening, February 23rd, 1873, by
GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., M.D., LL.D., D.SO.,
Honorary Member of L'Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Rome, <&c.
BY THE SAME AUTHOR—
Price Threepence,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MACBETH.
A Lecture delivered before the Psychological Society of Glasgow, on
May 4th, 1869.
“ We advise all playgoers and dramatic readers to give a glance at this
pamphlet; they will be well paid for their trouble, and will see the phases
of Macbeth’s character far better than any actor of the present day can
delineate them.”—Theatrical Journal.,
“ The lecture is a full, careful, and philosophical treatise on the
Shakespearian tragedy. Dr. Sexton makes the most patient analysis of the
character of the Thane; and in his conclusions, generally speaking, the
student will readily acquiesce.—The Era.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. No. 2, published to-day. To be had of W. H. Terry,
96, Russell-street, Melbourne, and all Australian Booksellers.
JjVE MALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operatiohs of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THE NEW PATENT SELF-ACTING>DRY CLOSETS,
for Earth, Ashes, or CharcoaL No noise, no dust.no smell, no
inconvenience; economy and comfort combined. Send for price list.
PEAT ENGINEERING AND SEWAGE FILTRATION COMPANY
(Limited),”150, Leadenhall-street, London.
A. GLENDINNING, Secretary.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
V
ERY
into
soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
England the subject attracted attention in jClerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
,It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings'; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Treasurer.—Mr. Joseph Dinsdale. Librarian.—Mr. John Moore.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. Ambrose Egerton.
Mr. John Mayle.
Committee of Management.
Mrs. M. A. Richardson,
Mr. Wm. Richardson.
Mrs. L. A. Lamont.
Mrs. Eliza Clement.
Mrs. S. A. Spring.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. George Shaw.
Mr. John Lamont.
Auditors.
Mr. Edwin Banks. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Secretaries.
Financial and Recording Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld Stree
West Derby Road, Liverpool.
Corresponding Mr. J. Y. Flannery, Momington Terrace,
Seacombe, near Liverpool.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object, by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
; SPIRITUALISTS:
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1§73, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern,, at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard. Fitton, Secretary pro lem.
TO BOOK-BUYERS.—Just published, and sent post
free, CATALOGUE No. 6 of Standard SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
being a portion of the large and valuable stock of CHARLES LOWE, 1,
Ann-gtreet, Birmingham.—Libraries and small parcels of Books purchased,
or exchanged.
VOLUJVIE FOUR. JNfUJVlBEf^ ONE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 2nd, 1874.
Sjrintalist gttosp'apr.
HARGrE FOR ADYERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, arid
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Deduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of othets. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per"
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important pews or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all commimications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions':—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is' the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publishes', Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be infoi'med of such impediments and irregulan-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by,post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
Tht Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Eochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Eichard Eoberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTEALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London ublisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by emitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty nwmbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
MR. CROOKES ON SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
The Quarterly Journal of Science, published yester¬
day, contains a long article by its editor, Mr. W.
Crookes, F.R.S., entitled, “ Notes of an Inquiry into
the Phenomena called Spiritual,” during the years
1870-73. In the article, Mr. Crookes acknowledges
the reality of more of the phenomena of Spiritualism
than he has ever publicly done before. • In fact, he
in the air, small articles moving without contact with
any person ; that he has seen luminous hands, phantom
forms, and phantom faces. All this is strong and
probably unpalatable testimony, to many of the readers
of the very orthodox scientific journal in which the
narrative is published, and it is highly creditable to Mr.
Crookes that he should thus brave public opinion by
telling the truth. He also does not attempt to shelter
himself behind the “ psychic force ” theory, but men¬
tions nearly every theory which has ever been broached
to account for the phenomena, without exhibiting any
particular partiality for any of them. He further
makes the statement that there is intelligence connected
with the phenomena; he says that he has observed
some circumstances “ which seem conclusively to point
to the agency of an outside intelligence not belonging
to any human being in the room.”
The greater part of the article relates to phenomenal
Spiritualism, brief accounts being given by him of
manifestations which he has witnessed in his own
housed Such records are of more interest to the
general public than to Spirituahsts, although here and
there some occurrences a little out of the common are
described.
In one part of the article he says:—
To obtain free access to some persons abundantly endowed
with the power I am experimenting upon, now involves more
favour than a scientific investigator should be expected to
make of it. Spiritualism amongst its more devout followers
is a religion. The mediums, in many cases young members
of the family, are guarded with a seclusion and jealousy
which an outsider can penetrate with difficulty. Being
earnest and conscientious believers in the truth of certain
doctrines which they hold to be substantiated by what
appear to them to be miraculous occurrences, they seem to
hold the presence of scientific investigation as a profanation
of the shrine. As a personal favour, I have more than once
been allowed to be present at meetings that presented rather
the form of a religious ceremony than of a Spiritualistic
seance. But to be admitted by favour once or twice, as a
stranger might be allowed to witness the Eleusenian myste¬
ries, or a Gentile to ipeep within the Holy of Holies, is not
the way to ascertain facts and discover laws. To gratify
curiosity is one thing ; to carry on systematic research is
another.- I am seeking the truth continually: On a few
occasions, indeed, I have been allowed to apply tests and
impose conditions ; but only once or twice have I been per¬
mitted to carry off the priestess from her shrine, and in my
own house, surrounded by my own friends, to enjoy oppor¬
tunities of testing the phenomena I have witnessed elsewhere
under less conclusive conditions.
There are some statements in the preceding para¬
graph which will scarcely be considered fair by
for instance, we do not know that we
met a single Spiritualist who believes the
Spiritualists;
acknowledges that he has seen human beings floating [ have ever
2
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1874.
phenomena to be “ miraculous ” in the ordinary sense
of the term, and in the meaning which the word will
convey to the readers of the Quarterly Journal of
Science. Spiritualists everywhere, so far as we know,
consider the phenomena to he governed by laws, which
laws are for the most part at present unknown, and to
be discovered only by observation and experiment.
Spiritualism amongst its more devout followers is truly
a religion, but it is a scientific religion—that is to say,
it is founded upon facts, not upon assumptions, and it
calls upon its adherents to believe nothing which can¬
not be proved, or which does not commend itself to
their common sense. Mr. Crookes is for the most part
silent in his article as to the influence which mental
conditions have upon the phenomena, although experi¬
enced observers are aware that mental conditions are
most powerful in their action upon the physical results,
consequently these phenomena occupy the border land
between mental and physical science. When a
medium is thoroughly comfortable and happy, the
phenomena develope rapidly and powerfully, and that
anxiety which must weigh upon the mind of a
medium, if any person present considers the said
medium to be an impostor, naturally tends to retard the
manifestations, except with very powerful professional
“ psychics,” like the Davenports; and it is a curious
fact that one rarely hears of any of the higher spiritual
phenomena occurring through such mediums. The
spirits who have most direct power over common matter
are usually excessively low ones; and it seems as if,
when sitters at spirit circles furnish low mental and
moral conditions, by assuming one of their friends at
the seance to be an impostor, a correspondingly low order
of spirits from the other side of the grave has to in¬
fluence the medium, to meet that class of mind. The
’ real difficulty in getting freely at good mediums arises
from the circumstance that they are so few in number;
that so many persons wish to have seances with them,
and that mediums in private life feel that it is not a
nice thing to invite persons to their own homes, to sit
in judgment upon them, deciding whether they are
impostors or not. Mr. Crookes would not like to invite
acquaintances, for whose opinion he cared little or
nothing, to his own house to sit in judgment upon
him, in the manner just stated. Very frequently
mediums have, after solicitation, invited persons
out of pure kindness, and in whose belief or
disbelief they felt no interest, to witness manifesta¬
tions, and the visitors have assumed, if the solitary
seance chanced to be unsatisfactory to their minds, that
they had a perfect right to condemn in a public news¬
paper the medium who invited them. This is, of course,
unbearable, and until mediums can receive the same
treatment from the public as a clergyman would receive
in society, they are bound, in self-defence, to expose
themselves as little as possible to obloquy.
However powerful mediums may be, the best mani¬
festations always occur when they are surrounded by
persons in whom they have confidence. When sur¬
rounded by those whom they distrust, the manifesta¬
tions are weaker, and every medium knows that he has
particular friends with whom he can get better mani¬
festations than with others. In such cases physiological
as well as mental causes may, perhaps, have something
to do with it. Mr. Williams, for instance, finds that
the manifestations through his mediumship are more
especially powerful at his seances with Mr. H. R. Russell,
of Kingston-upon-Thames, and in the presence of Mr.
Russell, Mr. Williams’ spirits prefer to try their first
experiments at producing new manifestations.
The circumstance that physical facts are thus in¬
fluenced by the affections, and by things mental, is a
very great advantage to Spiritualism, since it tends to
make the movement spread among a spiritually-minded
people, who do not naturally look upon their neighbours
as rogues and thieves. Spiritualists, consequently, are
bound together by chains of sympathy; they are not
at heart at war with each other to that extent to which
disunion is prevalent in other sections of society.
The mental conditions influencing the manifestations
tend to cause Spiritualism to twine itself around the
social life of its followers. All deep and thorough re¬
forms must begin by influencing social usages, it being
a well-known fact to moral philosophers and to political
economists, that the social usages of a nation are more
durable and powerful than political changes. Ho
government on the face of the earth is powerful enough
to suddenly change, to any great extent, the social usages
of its subjects, and any violent attempt in that direction
only results in the overthrow of the political power. Thus
Spiritualism, by its influence in the home circle, and the
manner in which it mixes itself up with social life, has
a living influence which it would never possess, if it
could be made a matter of mathematics, mechanics,
physics, and nothing else. The realm of physics is
wide, and is constantly extending in every direction, so
that it has scope enough to be able to afford to have
one department in which mind is shown to be the lord
of matter, and which tends to raise the moral and
religious character of its students. Man is naturally a
religious animal, and when he has pushed his researches
in any direction, as far as his intellect and moral con¬
dition will permit, he feels how very little he knows of
the great universe which surrounds him, and has a
solemn consciousness, at the bottom of his own heart,
that the facts of matter can afford no rest for the
aching mind, that the soul requires something higher
and nobler to satisfy its aspirations. The intellect of
the age denies the authority of tradition and of dogma,
but it none the less feels that a religion is needed—a
religion not of speculation, but one founded upon
proved facts. The more Spiritualism is studied, the
more will it be found to meet these requirements.
Mr. Crookes says :—
Like a traveller exploring some distant country, the won¬
ders of which have hitherto been known only through reports
and rumours of a vague or distorted character, so for four
years have I been occupied in pushing an inquiry into a terri¬
tory of natural knowledge which offers almost virgin soil to a
scientific man. As the traveller sees in the natural phenomena
he may witness the action of forces governed by natural laws,
where others see only the capricious intervention of offended
gods, so have I endeavoured to trace the operation of natural
laws and forces, where others have seen only the agency of
supernatural beings, owning no laws, and obeying nofferee but
their own free will. As the traveller, in his wanderings, is
entirely dependent on the goodwill and friendliness of the
chiefs and the medicine men of the tribes amongst whom he
sojourns, so have I not only been aided in my inquiry in a
marked degree by some of those who possess the peculiar
powers I have sought to examine, but have also formed firm
and valued friendships amongst many of the recognised
leaders of opinion whose hospitalities I have shared.
In. this paragraph, also, Mr. Crookes speaks of
“ supernatural beings owning no laws,” yet Spiritualists,
from one end of the country to the other, believe both
the spiritual and material worlds to be governed by
fixed laws; consequently are not so deficient in educa¬
tion as the foregoing quotation implies.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
3
Jan. 2, 1874.
Among the manifestations placed on record by Mr.
Crookes, the following are of interest:—
A beautifully formed small hand rose up from an opening
in a “dining table, and gave me a flower ; it appeared and
then disappeared three times at intervals, affording me ample
opportunity of satisfying myself that it was as real in appear¬
ance as my own. This occurred in the light in my own room,
whilst I was holding the medium’s hands and feet.
On another occasion, a small hand and arm, like a baby’s,
appeared playing about a lady who was sitting next to me. It
then passed to me and patted my arm, and pulled my coat
several times. At another time, a finger and thumb were
seen to pick the petals from a flower in Mr. Home’s button¬
hole, and lay them in front of several persons who were sitting
near him.
A hand has repeatedly been seen by myself and others
playing the keys of an accordion, both of the medium’s hands
being visible at the same time, and sometimes being held by
those near him.
The hands and fingers do not always appear to me to be
solid and life-like. Sometimes, indeed, they present more the
appearance of a nebulous cloud partly condensed into the form
of a hand. This is not equally visible to all present. For
instance, a flower or other small object is seen to move ; one
person present will see a luminous cloud hovering over it,
another will detect a nebulous-looking hand, whilst others
will see nothing [at all but the moving flower. I have more
than once seen, first an object move, then a luminous cloud
appear to form about it, and, lastly, the cloud condense into
shape, and become a perfectly formed hand. At this stage,
the hand is visible to all present. It is not always a mere
form, but sometimes appears perfectly life-like and graceful,
the fingers moving and the flesh apparently as human as that
of any in the room. At the wrist, or arm, it becomes hazy,
and fades off into a luminous cloud.
To the touch, the hand sometimes appears icy cold and
dead; at other times, warm and life-like, grasping my own
with the firm pressure of an old friend.
I have retained one of these hands in my own, firmly
resolved not to let it escape. There was no struggle or effort
made to get loose, but it gradually seemed to resolve itself
into vapour, and faded in that manner from my grasp.
This last piece of testimony is very interesting;
many experienced Spiritualists, including ourselves,
have never felt or seen the melting of a spirit hand,
though rumours that others have had. that experience
are prevalent. The testimony of a careful observer
like Mr. Crookes is valuable upon somewhat disputed
points like these. He also narrates that he has seen
“ shadow forms.” People endowed with clairvoyant
powers frequently see semi-transparent spirits, and
sometimes conventional angels with wings, the effect
being in some cases due to a spirit mesmerising the
sensitive, and by will-power making the sensitive see
what the spirit thinks. But so far as normal vision
is concerned, it would seem somewhat doubtful whether
the orthodox “ shadow ” ghost is not a myth. The
hands seen by most people through the mediumship of
the Davenport Brothers, Mr. Home, Mr. Williams, and
other mediums, have been thoroughly materialised for
the time being—we have never seen a “ shadow ” hand
in the presence of Mr. Home or any other medium.
Indeed, on fairly reasoning the question out, it will be
seen that a shadow form or hand is a more improbable
and irrational thing than a thoroughly materialised
hand, made by clothing a spirit hand temporarily with
matter; a “ shadow ” which will intercept or reflect
rays of light must be to that extent material, but
without something analogous to bones or other interior
mechanism, it is difficult to conceive how motive power
is applied to the matter. Therefore, it is a fair
subject for debate whether a shadow ghost has ever
been seen by normal vision. Mr. Crookes speaks of
seeing a partly transparent form near a curtain in a
dimly-lighted room; is he sure that it was not a
materialised form, visible as a dark outline upon
a slightly lighter screen or curtain, so that in a hasty
description it might he spoken of as a shadow form,
though solid in reality ?
There is one sentence in the article upon which Mr.
Crookes’ orthodox scientific friends are likely to con¬
centrate their attacks, namely:—
The phenomena I am prepared to attest are so extraordi¬
nary, and so directly oppose the most firmly rooted articles of
scientific belief—amongst others, the ubiquity and invariable
action of the law of gravitation. . .
Here we certainly cannot agree with Mr. Crookes,
and would urge that there is nothing in Spiritual
phenomena which has proved that the law of gravita¬
tion does not act invariably; all that the phenomena
prove is that there are forces, of which little is known,
which can pull an object in one direction with more
power than gravitation can pull it in the other; but
the law of gravitation is in continuous action all the
time. The Boyal Society will consider Mr. Crookes
very wicked for speaking thus disrespectfully of their
fetish, “ the law of gravitation he could not offend the
society more were he to go to the length of insulting
such a time-honoured thing as the North Pole. Mr.
Crookes speaks of his travelling among Spiritualists as
others have travelled among savages and medicine men,
bringing with him all the accuracy of science; it is,
therefore, unfortunate that a benighted Spiritual
periodical should have to point out a mistake in
physical science made by the gentleman who has
come into our midst brandishing the banner of “ accu¬
racy.” Just as cantankerous barn-door fowls watch
for a single featherless spot to peck at in an unfor¬
tunate member of their society who is under their dis¬
pleasure, so are Messrs. Carpenter, Wheatstone and the
rest likely to peck at the sentence just quoted, which
doubtless was written too hastily, and would have been
amended had Mr. Crookes been a little more careful.
There is much about the mediumship of Miss Kate
Fox (Mrs. Jencken) in the article, and Mr. Crookes is
right in stating her to be a powerful medium for the
raps. She is the best rapping medium in this country,
and the noises may be obtained anywhere in her pre¬
sence with great certainty.
Altogether Mr. Crookes deserves the warm thanks of
Spiritualists for joining other scientific men like Mr.
Varley in testifying publicly to the reality of the
phenomena. His next article ought to be more ad¬
vanced, and deal with the facts of the influence of the
minds and affections of the sitters, upon the power with
which physical manifestations take place.
LORD AMBERLEY ON SPIRITUALISM.
The Fortnightly Review of yesterday contains an
article on Spiritualism by Yiscount Amberley, in which
there is much that is good and reasonable, as well as
much which cannot be commended. To begin with the
least favourable aspect of the article, he writes authori¬
tatively, and with a tone of superiority of knowledge,
after attending five seances only—evidently thinking
his judgment and experience to be of more weight than
those of the many gentlemen of education and trained
accuracy of observation, who have given half their lives
to the practical examination of the facts. However
pleasing this may be to general readers, who always
like to have their preconceived ideas confirmed, when his
article shall have become a thing of the past, and be
viewed by the cold, impartial gaze of future generations,
4
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1874.
more enlightened than ourselves, it will rank with such
utterances as those of Lord Brougham in his contemp¬
tuous article • against the wave-theory ofJ light. Lord
Amberley seems to he satisfied that his experience at
five seances—most of them poor ones—-justifies him in
overruling the conclusions of some millions of persons
who have had a hundred times more experience.
Lord Amberley began, continued, and ended his
observations by the adoption of the imposture theory.
If the mediums knew that he considered them to be
impostors, one real cause of the poor seances is explained.
The phenomena depend upon very delicate conditions
connected with the nervous system, and are always
weakened or stopped when the medium is not thoroughly
comfortable and happy. There are some few exceptional
mediums, like the Davenports and Mrs. Mary Marshall
the younger, who can usually get manifestations in the
teeth of such unfavourable conditions; but mediums with
such strong powers are rare. Hence “ investigators P who
know everything before inquiry, who are conscious that
mediums are impostors and their own friends dupes,
fortunately for the movement find some little difficulty
in entering Spiritualism, which consequently tends to
spread most rapidly among people who think that there
is some moral integrity in human nature, and do not at
heart adhere to the theory of the total depravity of their
neighbours.
Any intelligent man who attends a few poor seances
may possibly frame an imposture theory sufficient to
cover all the facts; so no good purpose can be served in
following Yiscount Amberley through the details of his
account of what he observed.
Towards the close of the article he says:—
When we are told of human bodies floating unsupported in
the air, the assertion is irreconcilable with a well-known law,
and the probabilities are infinite in favour of mendacity or
delusion on the part of the relater.
With which of these categories does Lord Amberley
class the following testimony of Mr. Crookes, published
in yesterday’s Quarterly Journal of Science ? A plain
question should have a plain answer, especially from a
gentleman and an English statesman:—
On one occasion I witnessed a chair, with a lady sitting on
it, rise several inches from the ground. On another occasion,
to avoid the suspicion of this being in some way performed by
herself, the la'dy knelt on the chair in such a manner that its
four feet were visible to us. It then rose about three inches,
remained suspended for about ten seconds, and then slowly
descended. At another time two children, on separate occa¬
sions, rose from the floor, with their chairs, in full daylight,
under (to me) most satisfactory conditions ; for I was kneel¬
ing and keeping close watch upon the feet of the chair, and
observing that no one might touch them.
The most striking cases of levitation which I have witnessed
have been with Mr. Home. On three separate occasions have
I seen him raised completely from the floor of the room.
Once, sitting in an easy chair, once kneeling on his chair, and
once standing up. On each occasion I had full opportunity
of watching the occurrence as it was taking place.
There are, at least, a hundred recorded instances of Mr.
Home’s rising from the ground, in the presence of as many
separate persons,/ and I have heard from the lips of the three
witnesses to; the most striking , occurrence of-this kind—the
Earl of Dunraven, Lord Lindsay, and Mr. C. Wynne-—their
own most minute accounts of what took place. To reject the
recorded evidence on this subject, is to reject all human testi¬
mony whatever; for no fact in sacred or profane history is
supported by a stronger array pf proofs.
One of the best parts .of the article is that which
deals with the circumstance of . many Spiritualists put¬
ting leading questions to the spirits, who, consequently,
have but to say.“ Yes ” or “ No ”i.n reply, and to adopt
information given them by the questioner* _ Such a
method of inquiry tends to aid deceiving spirits, whether
they be in or out of the mortal body.
The following is one of the best paragraphs in the
article;—
Nor is this true only of the modern wonders alleged by
Spiritualists ; it applies equally to the ancient wonders alleged
by other authorities. Finding, as we do, that positive false¬
hood is still rampant, that credulous acceptance of fantastic
theories and unsifted statements is still prevalent, that the
most improbable events are believed on the smallest possible
evidence, how can it be reasonably doubted that similar
causes must have produced similar effects in former ages?
Not to dwell, as is often done, oh the more scientific character
of our own age—for experience shows that the spread of
scientific knowledge may fail to shake unscientific habits of
thought—it is sufficient to urge that tthe totally undisci¬
plined minds of bygone races were not likely to furnish
evidence of a more trustworthy nature than that now offered
by men constantly subjected to the critical spirit of our age.
It is hard to understand—or would be hard were not, flagrant
incongruities so common—how the same individuals can
reject with scorn the statements of Spiritualists, yet receive'
with faith the equally incredible statements which form 'phrt’
of their religious creed. Evidence offered by many witnesses,
whose names are known, who have positively seep what they
describe, who may be personally questioned, whose untruths,
if any, may be detected, they do not even deem worthy of
examination. Evidence offered by single witnesses, whose
names are unknown or doubtful, who ardbe^ond the reach of
all inquiry, whose untruths, if any, tbefe3 are no means of
detecting, they believe even without examination. To assert
that a lady floats in the air is ridiculous ; to assert that a man
walked on the water is quite credible. To believe that spirits
return to us is a sign of folly; to believe that after actual
death human beings were restored to life is rational religion.
Angels might descend to converse with prophets ; spirits
cannot descend to converse with their dearest friends. That a
table should be moved in some inexplicable way is not to be
believed; that a sea or a river should be cleft in twain is not
to be doubted. It might almost be maintained that the readi¬
ness with which the public accepts the marvellous and the
inexplicable, varies directly as it is ill-attested. For not only
is the testimony offered by Spiritualists immeasurably
stronger, both in kind and in amount, than that on which the
orthodox miracles repose, but it conforms far more closely to
scientific conditions, being offered in order to prove, not
exceptional prodigies, wrought by exceptional men, in opposi¬
tion , to the laws of nature, but phenomena of every-day
occurrence, subject to their own laws, which, if not fully ascer¬
tained, are no less constant than those of the material world.
The Churchman says, “ extraordinary events happened once,
under conditions that will never recur.” The Spiritualist
says, “ extraordinary events happen daily, under certain condi¬
tions, and will always happen when those conditions are
fulfilled.” Any argument, then, that is used against the latter,
tells with hundredfold force against the former.*
There is no statement in the current number of the
Fortnightly Review of the principles on which that
journal is conducted, but it is to he regretted that it
disseminates such inaccurate information about Spiri¬
tualism. Should it desire to tell both sides of the
question, it ought to publish an article by some such
representative Spiritualist as Mr. A. It. Wallace. Mr. J.
Moriey, the editor, is a man likely to listen impartially
to both sides of a disputed question. He recently delivered
some very Sensible lectures on political subjects, at the
Boyal Institution, where among other good ideas, he
promulgated the thoughtful doctrine that there is no
“ best form of national government,” hut that one par¬
ticular form of government which is the best for a nation
at a particular time, may not be the best at another
time.
As some readers prefer to bind journals separately from
the bulk of the advertisexherits, the pages of The Spiritualist
are now arranged to'permit such a system of binding.
* See the obverse of this ingeniously argued in an excellent little hook,
by M.P., “ Hints for the Evidences of Spiritualism."
Jan. 2, 1874.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
5
LAYATER’S LETTERS TO THE EMPRESS MARIE
OF RtiSSIA.
IETTEE III.—ON THE IMMORTALITY OE THE SOUL.
Much revered Empress,—The outward condition of
every disembodied soul will correspond to its inward
state, that is to say, everything will appear to it as it is
itself. To the good all will seem good; evil will only
appear to the souls of the wicked. The loving soul
will attract loving souls, and the malicious soul will
attract ’malicious souls. Every soul will see itself
reflected by spirits similar to itself. The good will
become better, and will be admitted into spheres com¬
posed of beings superior to itself; the holy one will
become even more holy by merely contemplating spirits
more pure and holy than itself; the loving spirit will
love more and more; but in the same way every wicked
being will become worse and worse, by the mere
contact of others more wicked than itself. Even on
earth, virtue and vice, love and hatred, are most con¬
tagious, but beyond the grave all moral and reli¬
gious perfection, as also every immoral and irreligious
feeling, must needs become far more alluring and
contagious.
You, much honoured Empress, will become all love
in the sphere of benevolent Souls. All my compara¬
tive selfishness and conceit, and the lukewarmness
which I now feel about God’s kingdom and His de¬
signs, will be entirely absorbed by the sense of love, if
it has been predominant in me, and I shall be con¬
tinually purged more and more by the presence and
companionship of pure and loving spirits. Purged—
by the force with which we have exercised our power
of loving while on earth, still further by the love
which elevated spirits shall pour, forth upon us, we
shall gradually be prepared for the sight of the all-
perfect love, so that we may not be dazzled or terrified
by it, which would mar our perfect enjoyment of it.
But, much venerated Empress, how can, how dare a
feeble mortal attempt to conceive the aspect of the
impersonation of love ? And thou, inexhaustible
charity, how couldst thou approach Him who draws
love from thee alone, without terrifying and dazzling
Him ? I think that at first it will appear under a dis¬
guise. Has it not always been thus ? Who loved more
invisibly than Jesus ? Who better than He knew how
to represent the incomprehensible individuality of the
Unknown? Who better than He knew how to disguise
Himself—He who might have manifested Himself more
plainly than any mortal or immortal spirit ? He, adored
by all the heavens, came in the guise of a humble
workman, and preserved till death the character of a
Nazarene. Even after His resurrection He appeared at
first in a strange form, and only made Himself known
afterwards. I think that He will always maintain
this mode of action, so analogous to His nature, His
wisdom, and His love., When Mary sought Him in the
garden, and already despaired of finding Him, He
appeared to her as a gardener. For some moments
shbdid not recognise Him. It was also in a strange
form that He appeared to two of His disciples who, as
they walked, were full of Him and raising their
thoughts towards Him. He walked for some time by
their side; their hearts burned with sacred fire; they
felt the presence of some pure and noble spirit, but
only recognised Him when He broke the bread, the
moment of His disappearance, and when they saw Him
again that night at Jerusalem. The same thing took j
place on the borders of the lake of Tiberias, and again
when he appeared to Saul, radiant with dazzling glory.
How sublime and how dramatic are all the actions,
the words, and the revelations of our Lord ! Every¬
thing pursues a constant course, always advancing,
approaching nearer and nearer to a goal, which, how¬
ever, is never a • finality. Christ is the hero, the
centre, and the principal character in this grand and
divine drama, sometimes visible, sometimes invisible.
In this drama all is beautifully simple, and yet at
the same time complex; it never ends, and yet has
appeared a thousand times complete. He appears
always, unknown at first, in the existence of each
of His worshippers. How could love fail to show
itself to one who loves just at the moment of his
utmost need ?
Yes, 0 Thou most human of men! Thou wilt appear
to man in the most human manner. Thou wilt appear
to that loving soul whom I now address! Thou wilt
appear to me also, at first unrecognised, and afterwards
manifesting Thyself. We shall see Thee times without
number, ever different yet ever the same, ever more
beautiful according as we increase in holiness, and
never for the last time. Let us try to raise ourselves
to this entrancing thought, which I will endeavour,
with God’s permission, to explain more clearly in my
next letter, and to bring- home to you in a more
striking light by adding a communication from one
who has passed away. Lavater.
1, ix., 1798.
SPIRITUALISM AND MATERIALISM.*
BY THE HON. R. DALE OWEN.
The members of the Evangelical Alliance, during
their recent session, admitted and deeply deplored the
increase and wide range of Materialism, and sought
means to arrest it. From other authentic sources we
have corroborative testimony to the same effect; as
from an official report on religious worship, made Dec.
8th, 1853, to the Registrar-General of England.
There we read:—
There is a sect, originated lately, called“ Secularists,” their'
chief tenet being that, as the fact of a future life is (in their
views) susceptible of some degree of doubt, while the fa6t and1
necessities of a present life are matters of direct sensation, it
is prudent to attend exclusively to the concerns of that
existence which is certain and immediate, not wasting ener¬
gies in preparation for remote and merely possible1 contin¬
gencies. This is the creed which, probably with most exact-'
ness, indicates the faith which, virtually though not pro¬
fessedly, is held by the masses of av/r working population.—
Page 78.
And the writer adds, speaking specially of artisans
and other workmen :—
It is sadly certain that this vast, intelligent, and groWingly
important section of our countrymen is thoroughly estranged l
from our religious institutions in their present aspect.
As to another influential class, not in England and
on the European Continent only, but in our own
country, a bishop who is held in deservedly high esti¬
mation by the orthodox body to which he belongs,
stated to me his conviction that evidences of infidelity
are daily multiplying among intelligent men; adding
that he had lately heard- a Professor of Harvard.
College express the opinion that three-fourths of our.
chief scientific men were unbelievers.
* We "extract’this from an article sent us by Mr. Dale Owen, which
article was recently published in the New York Tribun .
T
6
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1874.
Mr. Alfred Wallace, an eminent English scientist,
well known on both sides of the Atlantic, published,
last year, under his o^n name, in the London Quar¬
terly Journal of Science, edited by a Pellow of the
Loyal Society, a ten-page review of an American work
on Spiritual Phenomena, entitled the “ Debatable
Land.” In that review he says that “ such a subject
is not out of place in a scientific journal, for in what¬
ever light we view it, it is really a scientific question.”
And his conclusion is this:—“ The facts here given
force upon us the spiritual theory, just as the facts of
geology force upon us the belief in long series of
ancient living forms, different from those now existing
on the earth.”
Again. Mrs. Stowe, in the Christian Union, says of
the same book:—“ It ought to be reckoned as of the
same class with Darwin’s late work; being a study into
the obscure parts of nature, conducted in the only true
method, by the exhibition of well-selected facts.” The
editor of Every Saturday declares “ its logic to be of a
kind to command the respect of Bishop Butler or
Archbishop Whateley.” And, not to multiply examples,
that most critical of journals, the Nation, at the close
of a candid two-column review, thus expresses itself:
—“ What is spirit ? What is matter ? Science, to all
appearance, draws nearer and nearer to answering
these questions ; and books which, like the ‘ Debatable
Land,’ contribute their quota of carefully observed and
recorded facts to the discussion, are to be welcomed.”
An old belief seems about to disappear—the belief
in the exceptional and1 miraculous. The civilised
world is gradually settling down to the assurance that
natural law is universal, invariable, persistent. Now if
natural law be invariable, then either the wonderful
works ascribed to Christ and His disciples were not per¬
formed, or else they were not miracles. If they were
not performed, then Christ, assuming to perform them,
lent Himself, as Lenan and others have alleged, to de¬
ception—a theory which disparages His person and dis¬
credits His teachings. But if they were performed
under natural law, and if natural laws endure from
generation to generation, then inasmuch as the same
laws must exist still, we may expect somewhat similar
phenomena at anytime. Add to this that Jesus Him¬
self, exercising spiritual powers and gifts, promised
(John xiv. 12) to His followers after His death similar
faculties.
The question, then, touching the existence or non¬
existence, at the present time, of phenomenal proofs of
a life to come, may, if decided affirmatively, furnish to
men of science and to other sceptics who reject the
Gospel narratives, the very species of evidence that is
demanded at this modern day to change their dis¬
couraging creed. To act upon the ignorance of the
first century, it needed works which that ignorance
looked upon as miracles ; but to act upon the apathy of
the present age, it needs phenomena acknowledged to
be natural, yet of an intermundane character. If such
can be placed before materialists, then they will have
the evidence of their senses in proof that the marvellous
powers ascribed to Jesus and the spiritual gifts enjoyed
by His disciples were natural, and are credible; that,
in fact, we have no more reason for rejecting them than
for denying the wars of Caesar or the conquests of
Alexander. And thus the alleged spiritual manifesta¬
tions of our day, if they prove genuine, become the
strongest evidences to sustain the authenticity of the
Gospels.
REMARKABLE SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
BY WEBSTER G1YNES.
I forward you an account of a very successful
private seance held on Tuesday, the 16 th December, at the
Palace Hotel, Buckingham Gate, through the medium-
ship of Mr. Williams. It may, I think, be considered
more than usually interesting, because it helps to furnish
Spiritualists with an answer to that important question
so persistently put to us by unbelievers as a crucial test,
viz., “ Have the spirit and the medium been seen
separate and apart from one another at the same
moment?” The account I am about to give will
demonstrate the possibility of procuring a very satis¬
factory reply.
Our party consisted of five persons, namely Prince
Wittgenstein, Aide-de-Camp to the Emperor of Russia,
a distinguished medium who had come over to England
expressly to investigate instances of spirit materialisa¬
tion ; Presutto, his confidential servant; Dr. Boulland;
and myself.
We assembled in a sitting room occupied by the
Prince, on the first floor of the Hotel. The windows
looked into the street, the only door to the apartment
faced the windows, and opened out upon the corridor.
The room was furnished in the ordinary way. A round
table stood in the centre of the apartment, and various
chairs and tables were arranged round the walls. Day¬
light was excluded, and the door secured by placing
against it a heavy piece of furniture, which could not
be moved without causing considerable noise and dis¬
turbance. The medium was placed in a chair, away from
the windows, and behind a folding screen, while the rest
of us sat down round the table in the middle of the
room. The candlelight was extinguished, which left
us in darkness.
After about twenty minutes had past, the medium,
who up to this time had been joining in our conversa¬
tion, became silent, and the presence of a spirit became
known by the appearance of a small light, flitting up
and down the screen.
Soon afterwards we began to distinguish a whitish mist
in the gloom, and then “ John King ” appeared at full
length, with great distinctness, in front of the screen,
and spoke to us. He was dressed as usual in a white
turban, and loose flowing robes, somewhat similar to
the costume of an Arab, or Moor. I observed his
swarthy countenance and curly black hair, which, how¬
ever, did not seem so long as I have seen it on former
occasions. He held in front of him his wonderful
lamp, which suffused over the upper part of his figure
a soft, luminous, phosphorescent glow, of a bluish green
tint. The light, though brilliant, was yet so mellow
that the eye could rest oh it without discomfort.
Having had an opportunity on a previous occasion of
examining this lamp, when placed by John King on the
palm of my hand, I will here attempt, some description
of it. It consists, apparently, of a semi-transparent
oval shaped piece of unpolished crystal, of about three
by four inches in breadth, and; one in thickness,
rounded at the edges like the flat stones that may be
found on the sea shore. It feels hard, and of a palpa¬
ble weight, and in temperature about the warmth of
the human body.
The glow of light from it is subdued, steady, and phos¬
phorescent. In the heart of the substance, I have noticed,
a small spark like a kernel of fire. This lamp-stone is
held by John King in front of his waist, wrapped in
the folds of his robe, and encircled by his hands, as
THE SPIRITUALIST.
7
Jan. 2, 1874.
though hugging a great treasure. Sometimes the light
disappears,] as he draws' the stone into the folds of his
mantle, seemingly to foster it; and then, as he brings
it out again, its brilliancy increases to its full lustre,
until in turn it fades away as it is returned again to its
repository. This extraordinary light was shown to us
many times, but on one occasion with more than usual
brilliancy. The spirit seemed to be making a great
effort to show himself clearly, for holding the lamp
down underneath his loose robe, nearly as low as the
knees, he lit up his figure with wonderful brightness,
and illumined a part of the room.
Presently he advanced to us through the table; and
then at our request raised his figure, about four feet
from the ground, and looked down over us: Afterwards
he assumed a recumbent attitude, as if floating on his
back in the air, on about a level with the table. He
also shook hands with the Prince, Dr. Boulland, and
myself. The hand was somewhat warmer than my
own. The arm as it stretched across the table, seemed
to me to elongate itself to an unnatural size, and was
draped in a loose sleeve of some delicate texture. As
the hand slowly reached across to mine, I felt a slight
pricking sensation at the tips of the fingers, as
though some mesmeric current were passing between us.
The spirit’s grasp was manly and expressive, implying
to my conception the idea of much cordiality, tempered
with self-respect. We now asked, as a special test, to
be allowed to see the medium at the same time as the
spirit. John King made no reply, but withdrew for
some time. We next heard the screen'moved, and soon
afterwards we were invited to look. We left the table,
and approached the screen, one flap of which had been
set back. We were told not to come too near, and
only one by one. John King seemed most desirous to
show us the medium, and moved his light into several
positions for the purpose, but for some reason or other
the light, notwithstanding the spirit’s efforts, became so
dim, that we could see no more than a dark something
in the medium’s place. With feelings of considerable
disappointment we resumed our places, and were kept
some time in suspense, while John King made another
effort. At last his voice was heard to say; “ Let the
Prince come !” Prince Wittgenstein went to the screen,
from which we now observed the reflection of a dull
light, and in a short time returned, declaring that he
had really seen Mr. Williams asleep in his seat, while
John King stood over him lighting up his figure with
his lamp. We all were most anxious to witness this
important test, but the spirit informed us that there
was not sufficient power left. The Prince thinking that
the seance was over, proposed to strike a light, but John
King interposed, stating that he was busy restoring to
the medium so much of the power as had not been
expended. In answer to our questions on this subject,
he stated that power was not only taken from the
medium, but from the sitters also, and that while it was
necessary to restore the power to the medium, it was
not important to return any to them. John King
having finished his task, gave his usual benedictions,
and left, so terminating a very interesting hour in his
company. Webster Glynes,
4, Gray’s Inn Square, W.C.
We declare the above to be a correct account of what
took place in our presence.
(Signed) E. B. Boulland, LL.D,,
Giuseppe Presutto.
I declare the above account to be correct. I saw the
medium as stated, and John King holding a lamp over
him. (Signed) Prince Emile Wittgenstein.
THE LADY OF BURNHAM GREEN.
The following abstract of a narrative by Miss Florence
Marryat, is given by' Mr. Robert Dale Owen in his recent
book, The Debatable Land: —
Florence Marryat, daughter of the celebrated novelist, gave,
less than a year ago, in an American periodical,* three stories
of apparitions, which she attests as “ strictly true and well
authenticated.” Of these the last was witnessed by her father,
Captain Marryat, and is related as she heard it from his own
lips. I condense portions of it, giving the main facts in the
author’s own language.
In one of the northern counties of England stands a country
house, Burnham Green, inherited by the present occupants,
Sir Harry and Lady Bell.f Their house had its ghost: but,
“like most sensible people, they laughed at the report: ”
surrounding themselves with every luxury and not heeding the
legend.
Their numerous friends, cordially invited, flocked to Burn¬
ham Green, thought the place and its host and hostess charm¬
ing ; yet, after a while, made paltry excuses to curtail their
visits and were shy of being lured there again. It came out
that they had heard of the ghost, some declared they had seen
it, and the rest could not be persuaded to remain under a
haunted roof.
“ Sir Harry and Lady Bell were thoroughly vexed, and did
all they could to dissipate the superstition. They disinterred
the history of the ghost, who went by the name of ‘ The Lady
of Burnham Green,’ and found that it was supposed to be
the spirit of one of their ancestresses who had lived in
the time of Elizabeth, and had been suspected of poisoning
her husband. Her picture hung in one of the unused bed¬
rooms.’’
Lady Bell caused this bedroom to be renovated and cheer¬
fully fitted up ; and she had the picture of the Lady cleaned
and new-framed. In vain ! “No one could be found to sleep
in that room. The servants gave warning, if it was simply
proposed to them, and visitors invariably requested to have
their room changed after the second or third night. Guest
after guest took flight, to return no more.”
In this dilemma Sir Harry applied to Captain Marryatt, an
old friend of his, for advice. The Captain, utterly disbelieving
the story, offered to occupy the haunted chamber : an offer
which was eagerly accepted.
With a brace of loaded pistols under 'his pillow, he was
undisturbed for several nights, and was beginning to think of
returning home : but he was not to escape so easily.
After a week had passed, one evening, when Captain Mar¬
ryat was about to retire for the night, Mr. Lascelles, one of
the guests, tapped at his door and asked him to cross to his
room and inspect a newly-invented fowling-piece, the merits
of which they had just before been discussing in the smokihg
room. The Captain, who had already divested himself of
coat and waistcoat, picked up a pistol—“ in case we meet the
ghost ”—he said jestingly—passed along the corridor to Mr.
Lascelles’ room, and after chatting for a few minutes, over
the virtues of the new gun, turned to go. Mr. Lascelles
returned with him—“ just to protect you from the ghost,” he
said laughingly, in imitation of the former allusion. The
corridor was long and dark, the lights having been extin¬
guished at midnight; but as they entered it they saw a dim
light advancing from the farther end—a light held by a
female figure. The children of several of the families were
lodged on the floor above, and Lascelles suggested that this
was probably some lady going to visit the nurseries. The
Captain, remembering that he was in shirt and trousers, and
unwilling to face a lady in that guise, drew his companion
aside. The conclusion shall be told in the narrator’s own
words :—
“The rooms in the corridor were placed opposite each
other, and were approached by double doors, the first of
which, on being opened, disclosed a small entry, and the
* Harper's Weekly, issue of December 24th. 1870, pages 846 and 847.
t These are not the real names. The writer says: “ While I preserve all
details of these stories, I carefully hide the names of persons and places,
lest by negligence in this respect, I should wound the feelings of survivors.”
She says also that the stories which she has related are selected from a
number of similar anecdotes which rise in her memory as she writes.
8
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1874.
second door, •which led to the bed-chamber itself. Many
persons, on entering their rooms, only closed this second
door, leaving the other standing! open ; apd thus, when Mr.
Lascelles and my father stepped into one of these recesses,
they were enabled to shelter themselves behind the half-closed
portal.
“ There, in the gloom, they crouched together, very much
inclined to laugh, I have no doubt, at the situation in which
they found themselves, but terribly afraid lest- by a betrayal
of their illegal presence they should alarm the occupant of
the bedroom before which they stood, or the lady who was
advancing to the place of their concealment.
“ Yery slowly she advanced, or so it seemed to them ; but
they could watch the glimmer of her lamp through the crack
of the door; and presently my father, who had pertinaciously
kept his eyes there, gave the half-smothered exclamation,
‘ Lascelles ! By Jove !—the Lady i ’
“ He had studied the picture of the 'supposed apparition
carefully, was intimate with every detail of her dress and
appearance, and felt' that he could not be mistaken in the
red satin sacque, white stomacher and petticoat, high-standing
frill, and cushioned hair of the figure now advancing toward
them.
“ ‘ A splendid “ make-up,” he said, beneath his breath ; ‘ but
whoever has done it shall find I know a trick worth two of
his.’
“ But Mr: Lascelles said nothing. Imposition or not, he
did not like the looks of the lady of Burnham Green.
“ On she came, quiet and dignified, looking neither to the
right nor to the left, while my father cocked his pistol, and
stood ready for her. He expected she would pass their place
of hiding, and intended to pursue and make her speak to
him ! but instead of that, the dim light gained the door, and
then stood still.
“ Lascelles shuddered. He was a brave man, but sensi¬
tive. Even my father’s iron nerves prompted him to be
quiescent.
“ In another moment the lamp moved on again, came
closed, closer; and round the half-closed door, gazing inqui¬
sitively at them, as though really curious to see who was
there, peered the pale face and cruel eyes of the Lady of
Burnham Green.
“'Simultaneously my father pushed open the door and con¬
fronted her. She stood before him in the corridor just as she
stood in the picture in his bedroom, but with a smile of mali¬
cious triumph on her face ; and goaded on by her expression,
hardly knowing what he did, he raised his pistol and fired full
at her. The ball penetrated the door of the room opposite to
where they stood ; and, with the same smile upon her face, she
passed through the panels and disappeared.”
■ Of course there was no' explanation except what the ap¬
pearance and disappearance of the apparition afforded. If
spirits cannot appear, what was it that these two gentlemen
saw arid one of them fired at ?
THE NEW AUSTRALIAN SPIRITUAL
NEWSPAPER.
A weeexy newspaper, price threepence, edited by the
Rev. John Tyerman,has just been issued in Melbourne,
under the title of The Progressive Spiritualist. It con¬
tains scarcely any Australian news, and is mostly filled
with articles relating to religious subjects. The follow¬
ing extract from an article by its editor will give an
idea of'the general tone of the utterances of the new
journal:-—
spiritualism; in its eelations to oethodoxy.
(l No one acquainted with the teachings and tendency
of Spiritualism can fail to perceive that it has an im¬
portant bearing on the theology and general conduct of
the churches. , It will leave untouched everything that
is intrinsically good and practically beneficial jn the
popular religions of the world; • or rather, to everything
of this character it will impart new life and vigour,
and surround it with additional guarantees of safety;
but it will boldly challenge all the speculative dogmas
of those religions, and demand'that they shall either
proye their claims at the bar of reason and science;“6r
abandon the pretentious and authoritative position they
have so long held.
I am aware that there are those connected with the
movement who have tried to harmonise Spiritualism
and orthodox Christianity, and make it appear that they
are practically at one; but the effort, as might have
been predicted, have hitherto completely Jailed. Those
who have attempted this have either a Spiritualism
peculiar to themselves; or a Christianity which orthodox
churches would repudiate. The * term, “ Christian
Spiritualist,” : by which a few who believe in spirit
communion wish to be distinguished, has always ap¬
peared to me a misnomer. It would be just as con¬
sistent and proper to speak of a Christian Mohartimedan,'
or a Christian Pagan, as a Christian Spiritualist. If
we are one we cannot be the other, according to the
ordinary meaning of the term Christian; and if we
use the term in a sense different from that ordinarily
attached to it, we are simply misleading others. I do
not doubt the sincerity of those friends who try to
make fire and water blend, and mutually help each
other; and I can appreciate their motive in desiring to1
avoid another rupture in the churches, and the con¬
sequent formation of another sect. It is very difficult
in most cases to rid the mind of early beliefs and in¬
fluences ; and some persons have a remarkable aptitude
for making any new fact or truth fit their old estab¬
lished opinions, f But if our Christian Spiritualists
will give their reason free scope, and apply, fearless of
consequences, some ©f the first principles of Spiritualism
to the majority of Church dogmas, they will find a
fatal antagonism at once spring up.
In proof of this, we need only notice the three
following positions:—-First, Spiritualism proves that
divine inspiration is a continued and universal fact.' It ’
was not confined to a few of the ancients, and did not
cease some eighteen hundred years ago. God still in¬
spires men’s minds, and reveals His will to them,
through the ministry of angels and other means, as He
did in olden times. And, therefore, the claim to ex¬
clusive inspiration set up for the Bible is unwarranted.
And if its assumed exclusive inspiration and consequent
infallibility- are disproved, away go all the doctrines
founded on that assumption. Secondly, Spiritualism
teaches that man’s happiness or misery depends'upon
his obedience to, or Violation of, the laws of God as
impressed on his own physical, mental, and moral con¬
stitution, and on external nature. From this position
it follows that his ‘ salvation’or moral well-being is’
placed in his own hands, and is the inevitable effect of
wisely-ordained natural1 causes; and, consequently, no
other being in the universe can c bear his sins,’ or f pur¬
chase his salvation,’ as Christians phrase it. And hence,
the doctrine of Yicarious Atonement—the chief pillar of
Church theology—is alike unnecessary and impossible.!
Thirdly, the doctrine of eternal progression, which1
Spiritualism unfolds, as the destiny of all men, makes
sad havoc among theological dogmas. Tt; overthrows
the doctrine of the‘Fall’'at one end of theology, and1
that of ‘Eternal Punishment’ at the other; and, as the'
first and last links in the. chain of dogma are snapped,
all the intermediate doctrinal chain, dependent on those1
links, of necessity also gives way and falls to the ground.
Seeing, then, that there is such a vital and irreconcile-
able difference between some of the fundamental prin->
ciples of Spiritualism-and many of the dogmas which
bear the name of Christianity, it appears to me not only
unwise on the ground'of policy, but absolutely impos-
Jan. 2, 1874.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
9
sible as a matter of fact, to make them fit with each
other, and pass off before the world as harmonious parts
of one grand system.
If by Christianity were meant nothing but the
simple, beautiful, practical, benevolent, religion taught
and exemplified by the noble Jesus, then Spiritualism
and Christianity would indeed be at one. Spiritualism,
as a religion, is essentially Christian in that sense. But
that is not what creed-making and creed-defending
believers mean by Christianity. True, they call their
religion by the name of Christ, and profess to base it
on His teachings; but, alas, how little there is in com¬
mon between primitive and modern Christianity ! How
little most of the professed followers of Christ possess of
His spirit, or exemplify of His teachings ! His religion
of i Good Works’ has run to seed in a system of barren
‘ faith.’ His principles of all-embracing love and God¬
like forbearance have degenerated into sectarian bitter¬
ness and persecuting intolerance.”
SPIRITUALISM IN INDIA.
BY J. M. PEEBLES.
The Friend of India, published at Serampore, had among
its selections, some time since, this telling paragraph :—
The Bombay papers contain accounts of a mania for spirit-rapping which
they say has set in among the natives there. If the statements are correct,
it would not be surprising if the mania ran through India. Everything
connected with the spirit-world is a profound mystery to the native of
India. He has no definite ideas as to the future. He confesses at once
that it may be this or that—he knows not what. A city with golden pave¬
ment astonishes him, but really the definiteness is what puzzles him. If
spirit-rapping finds its way among such a people, we shall have queer reve¬
lations by-and-by. They will intensify a hundred-fold all the mysteries,
and will make a thousand more. Beligion will not stand in the way in the
slightest degree. A Hindoo is free to examine anything on the face of the
earth, and speculate to his heart’s content.
A rare tissue this of the true and the false ! Hindoos, thank
Heaven ! are §jj free to examine anything on the face of the
earth.” And this confession, all unwittingly made, should
put to shame the Churchman’s bigotry. “ Everything con¬
nected with the spirit-world,” however, is not a “ profound
mystery to the native of India.” Converse with spirits is as
old as the Vedas, while Indian oriental writings generally
are freighted with the teachings of inspired seers and sainted
Rishis.
Opening Captain Forsyth’s volume on Central India, I
find important passages on page 362 and others. Here is the
substance :—
Theirs—the Bygas—it is, to hold converse with the w orld of spirits, who
are everywhere present to the aborigines; and theirs it is also to cast
omens, call for rain, and charm away disease. The Byga—medicine-man
—fully looks his character. He is tall, thin, and cadaverous—abstraction
and mystery residing in his hollow eyes. A great necklace, carved from
forest kernels, marks his holy calling. Ghosts are supposed to be ever
present, inciting to either good or evil. Many profess to see them. * * *
These Byga medicine men further possess the gift of throwing themselves
into a trance, during which the afflatus of the Deity is supposed to be
vouchsafed to them, communicating the secrets of the future. “ I am
thoroughly convinced,” says the Captain, by evidence from other quarters,
“ that this trance is not mere acting.'',
Both Hudson Tuttle and J. 0. Barrett have heard me speak
of receiving Indian' letters from Peary Chand Mittra, a Cal¬
cutta commission merchant, writer, and Spiritualist. It can
well be imagined that it gave me much pleasure to clasp the
hand of this Hindoo thinker, and the more so when I found
his soul deeply absorbed in spirituality as against the vices of
this sensuous life, The Brahminical tinge permeating his
Spiritualism had for me a 'thousand charms. He was for a
time a writing medium ; but at present his gifts pertain more
to spiritual insight. He assured me that his ascended
wife was as consciously present to him at times, as though in
her body. Parting with this excellent man, be gave us,
besides other presents, a small volume from his pen entitled
The Development of the Female Mind in, Indig,. I find it
rich in historic References to woman’s independence in the
Vedic period—the golden age of the Aryans, . ,
Mohindro . Sapl >Paul and Romanath Sen;x—two interesting
young gentlemep (Connected with the higher pastes—called
upon us 'several times, to converse of spiritual phenomena in
America, and; the best methods of holding priyate s&wioes.
Conversant with, the spiritualistic literature of England, these
young, men are; Spiritualists; and yet they have never wit¬
nessed a shred of the phenomenal, A correspondence was,
agreed upon with these gentlemanly Hindoos. Are we not
brothers, all?
Shibchunder Deb—another devoted Spiritualist, introduced
by P. C. Mittra—presented us a neat volume that he had
recently published upon Spiritualism. It contains liberal ex¬
tracts from American authors—in fact, the works of Davis,
Tuttle, Barrett, Denton, Edmonds, and others, are well known
in India. This gentleman has also translated Emma Hard-
inge-Britten’s Spiritual Commandments into the Bengalese
language, and they are now being circulated as a tract in
India. We saw several Hindoo healers relieving the sick in
the streets.
India’s better class of minds—metaphysical and contempla¬
tive—are singularly adapted to accept the Harmonial Philo¬
sophy. It is a common saying that “ Hindoos, educated in
English colleges, return to India Theists and Pantheists.”
Though willing enough to believe in Jesus as one of the
Asiatic saviours and prophets, they cannot believe in the im¬
maculate conception and vicarious atonement. Oh! that
there were self-sacrifice, sufficient liberality, generous en¬
thusiasm and missionary spirit among Americans to send
Spiritualist papers, pamphlets, books, and lectures even, to
India, to disseminate the beautiful principles of brotherhood,
free thought, and a present spirit ministry. The seed has
already been sown by the angels—there are many Spiritualists
in different parts of this great country—can they, mill they
not perfect organisations, and thus come into working order ?
The next letter will take us through Central India by railway,
via Benares and Allahabad to Bombay.
“India of the East, o’er whose valleys sweet
Too quickly pass my ever-wandering feet;
Ere yet your shores in lengthening distance fade,
Let faithful memory lend my pen her aid.”
Banner of Light.
HEALING OE THE SICK BY PSYCHOLOGICAL
POWER.
The Religio Philosophical Journal (Chicago), of
December 20th, has an article five columns long, con¬
taining evidence relating to a remarkable case of the
healing of disease. The invalid was the wife of the
minister of a Methodist Episcopal Church, the Rev. M.
Sherman, who published the following letter about the
cure:—
Piermont, N. H. Nov. 6, 1873.
To the Editor of the “ Christian at Work.
I have great pleasure in sending you the following account
of the wonderful restoration to health of my wife, who had
for years been a bed-ridden, suffering invalid. We desire to
do this only for the glory of God and the good of His cause, in
obedience to the word of the Heavenly Healer: “ This thing is
not done in a corner; go, tell how great things the Lord hath
done for thee.”
I will preface the account of the cure with a few words in
regard to her religious experience, hoping it may be for the
benefit of precious souls.
Ellen Clark was born in Llandaff, N. H., August 3d, 1835.
Her parents were decided Christians, and gave her sound
religious instruction. Nevertheless, she remained without
Christ till the age of seventeen. Then, one Sabbath, at the in¬
vitation of her pastor, she went into his Bible-class in the
Sabbath-school. The lesson was concerning Peter’s walking
upon the water. His words, as he was sinking, “ Lord, save
me,” went as a dagger to her heart. She then and there re¬
solved to be a Christian. Action followed resolution, and she
was made exceedingly happy in the Divine love. She was
never very robust, but retained usually good health till her
sixteenth year, when, through an injury received by over
exertion, she laid the foundation for a spinal disease. The
spinal trouble was very much , aggravated, four years later, by
a fall down a flight of stairs, and a few months after that, her
constitution received a further shock. Immediately after the
injury first mentioned, she commenced having exceedingly
distressing sick and nervous headache, which continued all
through these years, as often, on an average, as once in two
weeks. In time her whole system became seriously deranged.
Her nervous system became nearly a wreck. At times she was
somewhat mentally deranged, and more than one physician
expressed the fear that the case would result in permanent in¬
sanity. ’ Besides all this, the year before her health began to
fail, through a fall on tho ice, ghe partially dislocated one of
10
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1874
her knees, so injuring the ligaments that she was unable to
walk for weeks without the aid of crutches; and ever since it
has been, in a considerable degree weak and stiff.
On September 10th, 1872, through a severe cold, she took
her bed, where she lay, except when lifted from it, till the
night of Aug. 27th last. She was wholly unable to walk a step,
or even to stand ; nor could she be raised to a fully upright
position. She could sit up but a few minutes at a time with¬
out the most extreme distress. The best medical skill that
we could avail ourselves of was employed. Only temporary
relief could be obtained. The spine grew worse, in spite of
every surgical appliance, the nervous prostration and irritation
increasing. During the following two or three weeks she was
especially helpless, the services of two being required to lift
her on and off the bed.
This was the condition, as accurately as I can describe, on
the morning of August 27th, and she was in a more than usual
degree of pain. As to the state of her mind, her reason was
at this time, so far as we could see, unclouded. She had, until
within a few months, usually kept up good courage that she
would measurably recover. But the conviction had been
growing upon her, and never seemed so clear as that night,
that her lot for life was to be that of a bed-ridden, suffering
invalid. Then, she had recently been made the subject of
some very uncharitable remarks which had come to her ears,
and which were very cruel, giving her great pain. In this state
of body and mind she was left for the night, between nine and
ten o’clock, her husband sleeping in an adjoining room, within
call. It was the night of Wednesday, August 27th, that my
wife retired for her night’s rest, feeling that she must have
more grace to bear these cruel speeches, and to be per¬
fectly submissive to all God’s will. She asked for this
grace. She went over the ground of entire consecra¬
tion ; phe was enabled to feel to submit entirely to the
divine will. As she felt thus, she felt that Jesus saved even
her. It was then that she began to be conscious of a real
presence. She knew it was Jesus. He seemed to stand at the
foot of her bed, though recognised only by the inner senses,
ahd He appeared surpassingly lovely. While she said within
herself, “Oh ! if I could always have such presence with me,
it would be joyful to lie here and suffer.” Then, Christ’s pro¬
mise to send the comforter to His disciples, to abide with Him
for ever, occurred to her. She asked for the fulfilment of His
promise, and cried out, “Lord, if Thou wilt, Thou can’st
make me clean!” and instantly her prayer was heard, and
there came the response, “ I will; be thou cleanand in¬
stantly she felt a sensation like that of an electric shock.
Promise after promise of Holy writ was brought before her
mind as vividly as though printed in letters of light, such as:
“ Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you,” &c. In the
bliss of that hour she thought: “ What am I, or what have I
done, that the Lord should so bless me ?” The answer was:
“ I, even I, am He that blotteth out thy transgressions for
My own sake.” She thought: “ But why bless such a sinner
as I?” “ This manreceiveth sinners,” was the reply.
Up to this time the thought of having anything done for
her body had not crossed her mind. But now came the
question: “ Should you be willing to be raised up, and work
for the Lord ?” And this thought of being raised up she con¬
ceived to be only as possible by God’s blessing as means used,
which might result in a gradual recovery. Whenever, in the
past, the thought had been suggested to her by others, of
being healed in answer to prayer, she had repelled such an
idea. She did not doubt that God was able, or that it had
been done for others, but she .said: “ It is not for me.” She
had not the least faith that any such thing would ever be done
to her.
But to return. She found this, at first, hard to assent to.
She was willing to be a bed-ridden invalid; but, to get up,
and face the storms and trials and vexations of every-day life
—she shrank from it. But she finally thought: “ Yes, Lord,
by Thy help, I wouldand then the presence drew near, and
whispered: “Believest thou that I am able to do this?” She
reasoned, as the question was repeated many times: “ All
power is given Him in heaven and on earth; He is the same
yesterday, to-day, and for ever.” Her intellect was convinced,
and her whole heart, divinely helped, believed, and she said:
“Lord, I do believe ; help my unbelief.” At once a sensation,
as a warm breath, was forcibly breathed upon her face, fol¬
lowed by a thrill all through her frame, like a current from a
galvanic battery, removing her pain—up to this moment very
severe—and strengthening and invigorating her whole body.
All this time she had lain motionless. Now she raised one
hand, and then the other,'without pain. The previous day
she had been unable to get either one to her head, without the
help of the other. Then she turned in the bed, with almost
no effort—coming over “like a cork,” as she expressed it. At
this point she rang the bell to awaken her husband. I came
into the room, when she said: “ Do you not feel that there is
a strong influence in the room ?” Upon my answering in the
negative, she said : “ There is; the Saviour is here, at work
upon me.” While these utterances were passing her lips, the
word came from Jesus : “ That the people may know that the
Son of Man hath still power on earth to forgive sins, arise and
walk.” She at once arose from the bed, and easily and
without pain, save a little hurt in her feet and ankles, walked
alone several times across the room. This was about one
o’clock of the morning of August 28th, up to which time she
had not closed her eyes since retiring to bed for the night.
After a time she lay down and slept till near seven; then rose
and dressed herself, and walked out to breakfast.
Two months have since passed away. She remains free
from disease, with increasing strength. She finds constant
rest of soul in Jesus. Assailed by the adversary, she con¬
stantly holds by faith. Meanwhile, the Lord is giving her
work to do, in public and private labour for souls, and with
her pen, in answer to scores of letters of inquiry. They ask:
“ Is all this that we hear true ?” I answer, the facts are
exactly as I have here stated. Some may say that the expe¬
rience of that night was but the hallucination of a disordered
imagination. But the fact of the cure remains; as also that of
the spinal transformation. Somehow it has been done—what
medical skill and careful nursing utterly failed to accomplish,
or, indeed, ameliorate. Many will attempt to account for this
on natural principles; but we are simple enough, and incre¬
dulous enough, if it be incredulity, to believe unwaveringly,
that our Lord Jesus Christ has, even in these days, wrought
as real a miracle as any He ever performed when He walked
upon earth in His flesh. Not for our sakes has He done this,
but for the confirmation of the faith of Christians, and to
convince a sceptical age that He is still a living God, and that
Christ is still able and willing to forgive sins, and make a clean
heart, and save to the uttermost.—Yours in the faith,
M. Sherman, Pastor of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
The editor of the Religio Philisophical Journal, is
not entirely satisfied with the foregoing letter. He
publishes another letter from Mrs. W.E. Clark, sister-in-
law to Mrs. Sherman, setting forth that she (Mrs.
Clark) had consulted Mrs. A. H. Robinson, a healing
medium, about Mrs. Sherman’s case, and he ascribes
the cure to the action of Mrs. Robinson’s spirits. He
argues that her conviction that the spirit of Jesus was
present, was a psychological delusion, hut that Mrs.
Sherman was cured by spirit-power. With reference
to Mr. Sherman’s statement that his wife “ had recently
been made the subject of some very uncharitable
remarks, which had come to her ears, and which were
very cruel, giving her great pain,” the editor adds—
“Hot a doubt of the truth of that statement. A
minister’s wife who should appeal to a spirit medium
for aid, although given up as incurable by a dozen of
the best physicians, would be the subject of ‘ some very
uncharitable remarks.’”
DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Dr. Slade is one of the finest test mediums for physical
manifestations in America, and the following description
of a part of one of his seances, which we extract from
the Religio Philosophical Journal, is of interest:—
To describe this feature of Dr. Slade’s mediumship, I will
simply relate my own experience, assuring your readers that
the truthfulnefs of my statements can be verified by similar
experiences on the part of anyone who desires to investigate.
On the occasion of my first visit early in July last, I was
then and had been totally unacquainted with Dr. Slade,
having never seen him or held correspondence with him. On
announcing the object of my visit, we repaired together to his
private room. It was about eleven o’clock in the forenoon,
and the room was perfectly lighted, same as any ordinary
Jan. 2, 1874.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
11
room. He first gave me the privilege of minutely examining
the small table in the centre of the room as well as all its con¬
tents. I was satisfied that no other person was present, and
also that there was no possibility of deception. I was also
reassured by the doctor’s very kind and indulgent treatment,
and convinced of his honesty. We sat down, he at the side,
and I at the end of the table. During some fifteen minutes I
witnessed nearly all his other physical manifestations.
Among other things, my chair with me in it holding my feet
clear of the floor, was drawn all about the room by some un¬
seen agency, which also caused, at the verbal request of the
doctor, all the chairs in the room to approach the table as
though each one were to accommodate some person with a seat
at the table, and afterwards in like manner to remove them;
Objects were picked up and transported in plain daylight,
visibly, unsupported, through the air, and handed to me! An
accordion which I held firmly by one side upon the top of the
table in my right hand, my left being under both the doctor’s
hands in the centre of the table, played two stanzas of “ Home
sweet home,” although I cannot play any musical instrument.
But now for'the wonderful slate writing.
The doctor asked audibly, “ Will the spirits present write
some for us ?” Immediately a tapping was heard upon the slate
and it moved unaided toward me,! I took it up and could
very distinctly feel the slight vibrations of the taps as they
were applied. Dr. Slade then placed a very small fragment
of slate pencil on the surface of the slate which we had
cleaned with a sponge, and instructed me to hold it tightly
with the fingers of my left hand, pressing it up against the
under side of the table, which I first examined. You will
understand that the fragment of pencil was small enough to
move between the surfaces of the slate and the table-leaf. I
did so. I then placed my right hand in the centre of the
table, and the doctor placed both his hands, in plain sight, on
my right. As soon as the contact was complete between our
hands, I could distinctly hear the little piece of pencil moving
over the slate, as if writing. We exchanged mutual expres¬
sions of surprise at so very wonderful and unaccountable an
occurrence. Tbps far I had given him no information at all
of a personal nature. When the noise of the pencil ceased, it
began tapping briskly, and the slate was forcibly moved from
under the table as I held it. On removing it, I found to my
surprise the words legibly written, “We will try to do so,”
and signed with my mother’s signature, “ Jane Barnard.”
Now, even if Dr. Slade had ever heard the name, which is
improbable, as she had never lived in the United States—who
did the writing ?
After I had made some statements describing results I had
obtained in my private sittings, which I commenced in re¬
sponse to instructions in answer to a sealed letter, a rapid
tapping came on the slate, and/I- held it again as before,
having first erased the former writing. This time the
message, written by unseen hands, was as follows : “ Go
on, go on, we will soon be able to show you all,” and
signed as before, “ Jane Barnard.” I may here state
that my mother had been in spirit life for nine years.
Some three days afterward, by special invitation from Dr.
Slade, I visited him again. This time I received the following
communication in the same manner. “ My dear son Henry,
you are blessing your loving mother by coming to this city,
and you will bless the dear one you are now on your way to
see. Tell her the loving angels stand ready to receive her
home. Give my love to all. I often go and make William
feel my presence ; also Annie and Emily. My dear son, do
all you can for this truth, and bless your loving mother,
Jane Barnard.”
Subsequent communications were equally satisfactory and
convincing. I received some of them on new slates purchased
for the purpose, which never went out of my sight, and'-were'
continually in my grasp ! I at length bought a double folding
slate with wooden frame, closing like the covers of a book,
and fastened together with brass hinges. It was obtained at
A. S. Barnes and Co., of William-street, and my name written
on it to identify it, so that substitution, were it possible, could
be detected. On this occasion, I put the little,grain of pencil
inside the slate, and both sides were written full while we held
both our hands together on the table, neither of us touching
the slate, which lay before me in plain sight on the table.
The writing continued audibly for about two minutes, and
when completed, the raps were repeated as before. > I opened-
the slate, and found the following message, which was written
while the doctor and I conversed on other subjects : “ My
dear son Henry, how noble you are in the course you have
taken with your brother and sister and friends. Oh, be kind
to them, and never, never say of them as they say of you.
They do not understand this beautiful truth as you do your¬
self. Oh, how can they talk against you as they do. My dear
son, your loving mother will never forsake you, for your soul
is noble and true to the laws of God and man. Live pure and
true as you have in the past, and as you receive the Light, let
it shine for all. Fear not; angels will bless all souls like
yours. The day is coming, dear son, when all will see you are
in the right. Give them all my warmest love, and tell them
I am often with them and know all they say. I am, your
loving mother, Jane Barnard.”
This communication, with the little piece of pencil, I still
have in my possession, and take pleasure in showing it to my
friends. But most people refuse to believe my most direct
and unqualified statements, on the principle of Tom Paine’s
argument against revelation, that after being revealed to one
man, it may not be a matter of testimony and veracity to all
others. To me it is most convincing. I received tests that
left not a shadow of doubt, and which give me the blessed
assurance of immortality and future life. I now have as good
evidence of my mother’s existence and presence with me as
I have of that of my brothers and sisters whose letters
I receive by mail. Here is scientific evidence of the most
substantial kind, and until scientific men can demonstrate
some other more reasonable and obvious cause, I shall con¬
tinue to believe in the sense before alluded to that I was in
direct and immediate communication with my spirit friends.
"When another cause is distinctly demonstrated, I am ready to
change my belief.
Hoping that I have not already wearied your readers, and
monopolised too much of your valuable space, I remain,
fraternally and truly, H. BARNARD.
Lock Box 1702, Minneapolis, Minn.
[Qreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
MATERIALISATIONS THROUGH THE MEDIUMSHIP OE MISS
SHOWERS.
Sib,—The experiences of Mrs. Fredericka Showers and her
daughter, as published in your last, are undoubtedly of so in¬
teresting a nature that, for the benefit of your readers, I ask
your kind permission to be allowed to add my mite of testi¬
mony in support of Miss Showers’ remarkable mediumship.
On Monday evening, 29th inst., my wife and I had the plea¬
sure of spending the evening with them at their temporary
residence, Graham-road, Dalston. The peculiarity of the
different voices was apparent in the light, even during our
taking tea, when two of the spirits, named “ Peter ” and
“ Florence ” respectively, conversed with us through the
organisation of Miss Showers, without any apparent difficulty;
the effect was remarkable, Miss Shqwers being, during the
time, fully conscious of all that was taking place. A seance
was then proposed by us, and, sitting round the large heavy
mahogany table with sufficient light to clearly discern every¬
thing in and about the room, we soon had the usual vigorous
table movements. After a sitting of short duration, with
singing, to help to evolve sufficient power or force for an
attempt to materialise, Miss Showers was placed in an adjoin¬
ing room, separated by curtains. A lighted candle, with seal¬
ing wax, and some tape, were left in the room with the medium ;
and we were given to understand, by the voice answering to
the name of “ Peter,” that at present he binds and seals
the medium, which was very securely done. The tape was,
on close scrutiny, found to be placed round the waist, then
knotted a number of times, sealed, and passed over a brass
rail at the foot of a bedstead, and again knotted and sealed.
The wrists of the medium were also bound close together, and
sealed. The length of tape between the medium’s waist and
the rail was about nine inches. We then removed the
lighted candle, wax, and spare tape to the front room, where a
fire and lamp were burning.
After singing, at the request of “Peter,” several well known
pieces, the face of one claiming to be that of the spirit
“Florence” appeared at an opening in the curtains. The
head was draped in white exactly like Miss Cook’s “ Katie
King” and other spirit forms. The eyes were markedly
dilated, and upturned, while the features were as life-like as
possible, although wanting, perhaps, in vitality of expression.
At my request we were allowed to stand in close proximity,
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1874.
even to within a distance of abont a foot, and in a clear light
were allowed to scrutinise the face, which kept within our view,
talking to us in a most natural manner for upwards of ten
minutes.
Bidding “ Florence ” good-night, after she had stated that
she thought she would have no difficulty in coming out
amongst us in full form on another occasion, the face receded,
and the voice of “Peter” was then heard singing several
pieces in a very powerful masculine voice at our wish. At our
request “Peter ” roused his medium from the trance condition
when we entered with the lighted candle, and I again care¬
fully scrutinised the fastenings which were certainly in the
same condition as I left them. Having obtained permission,
I cut the bonds from the medium, and retain them in my
possession at the present time, and they can be inspected by
any person desirous of so doing.
I may add that, in addition to the sealing of the knots, they
were also sewn together; and, further, that the hooded face
of “Florence” was not so markedly like that of the medium
as I had been led to expect, but was dissimilar in several re¬
spects. The voices continued during supper-time ; and the
remarks made by them on different topics of interest were
very appropriate. That Miss Showers possesses medial
qualities of no ordinary type is manifestly certain, and, having
been elected with her mother as members of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, careful and kind
development will do much to aid our investigations.
Apologising for the length of this letter, which I trust you
will endeavour to find a corner for in your newspaper, '
Thomas Blytoh.
12, High-street, Bow, London, 30th Dec., 1873.
A Challenge.—A Mr. John Francis Colling having
published, in the Bristol Daily Post, a challenge connected
with Spiritualism, Miss Lottie Fowler, the trance medium,
wrote to the editor of that journal from Darlington, on the
22nd of last month. In the course of her letter she said :—
“As a Spiritual medium, now pretty well known in this
country and in America, I hereby Challenge Mr. Colling, or
any other person, to produce, by non-spiritual means, the
phenomena which are produced by my mediumship. I en¬
gage to go to your or any other strange city, and amidst
twelve or fewer strangers, whose respectability and trust-
worth'ness shall be vouched for, I will, in the light, whilst in
the unconscious trance, reveal to most, if not all of them,
a knowledge of their affairs, and of persons with whom they
have been,associated, both living and dead, of which I could
not by any possibility have been aware beforehand, and of
which I personally shall know nothing after passing out of
the trance state. Whilst under such conditions, the spirit
who controls me describes spirit relatives of those present,
with such clearness as to establish their identity, and generally
gives messages from them of such a character as to convince
those to whom they are given that they could not possibly
come from any other source.” For the verification of my pos¬
sessing such powers I can refer you to reports in newspapers
of good standing and unquestionable veracity. • I enclose one
such from the Darlington and Stockton Times.’'
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
B. F.—When the collected earlier pictures are placed in series the
doubly exposed ones can be crudely separated from the others
at a glance. Through exposing twice and keeping the plates in
between, much tif what photographers call “ fogging,” was the
result, so that the prints from such negatives have mostly a
“ washed out ” look, and are usually devoid of the deep, rich
dark shadows of the pictures produced in the same place by
single exposure. We have one likeness of Mr. Wilks, formerly
president of the Dalston Association, taken on a sunshiny day.
During the first exposure the shadows of the bars of a window
projected upon the background were photographed; they were
also phetographed on the second exposure, but on a different part
of the background, the lapse of time having caused the shadow
to fall on another portion. The two exposures pictured the carpet
over Mr. Wilks’s boots, to hide which the negative was worked
upon with a cutting instrument, and the collodion scratched off the
glass. Consequently the boots and lower parts of the legs of our
respected friend, Mr. Wilks, are scratched off, and appear to end
in a mass of dark, scratches. A plan of publicly exhibiting these
early . pictures .is. under consideration; it may serve the useful
purpose of enabling spectators to recognise the. sham ghosts who
assisted the photographer in his work. ' The pictures, viewed in
series, make strange revelations, but we are not quite decided
whether it is Well to resuscitate the'matter.
MRS. TAPPAN’S EXPERIENCES.
Last Monday Mrs. Tappan gave a lecture at St. George’s
Hall, on her “ Experiences,” the proceeds to be devoted to the
covering of some of the debts of the Medium newspaper. The
Standard of last Tuesday says of the proceedings:—
“ The overture brought to a close, Mr. Noyes, M. A.,bewailed
the comparative sparseness of the attendance, and attributed
the circumstance to lack of advertising. Mrs. Tappan then
rose, dressed in simple black, and wearing a wreath of flowers
in her hair. After a short supplication to the Deity, Mrs.
Tappan said that her guides—whoever they were—had de¬
cided to relate her experiences. Always speaking of herself
in the third person, she said that at the age of eleven, while
preparing a school lesson, living in a village in Wisconsin,
U.S., she was thrown into a trance, and her slate covered
with strange writing, which was afterwards found to be
that of her mother’s deceased sister. This naturally caused
the mother some surprise, but nothing was said publicly of
it. Shortly after “ Cora” was again entranced with even more
striking manifestations, and it was then discovered that the
child was a trance medium, and chosen by various departed
spirits as a means of intercommunication. From “ spirit
writing,” Cora progressed to speaking for and with the
spirits, and thence to the “ healing ” phase, a German physi¬
cian controlling the medium and working many extraordinary
cures, and speaking through her several languages of which
she professed entire ignorance. Various peculiar instances
were here related, and were most marvellous—if true. When
thirteen years of age she was employed day and night in
healing the sick, and in preaching the new spiritual gospel.
A year after her father died, and Cora said she was
able to see and describe the departure of the spirit from
the body. At the age of fifteen the gift of healing was
withdrawn, and that of “ inspirational ” speaking substi¬
tuted, and since then she had delivered in public about 3,000
impromptu and unaided speeches. When peculiar subjects
were chosen by her audiences, the one most fitted among
her circle of controlling spirits would “inspire.” Never
was the same oration twice delivered, and Mrs. Tappan
triumphantly inquired if any professional lecturer could match
her performance for quantity. After an illness four years
ago her spiritual vision became enlarged, and she was enabled
to dictate an epic poem on the History of the States. In con¬
cluding her discourse, Mrs. Tappan demanded the inquiry
which Spiritualism courted, and said that all who had seri¬
ously examined the phenomena had admitted their truth.
It was but twenty-five years since the first rappings were
heard, and now there were thousands amongst them, and
millions in the world who accepted the spiritual truth. Mrs.
Tappan then requested a subject for an impromptu poem.
Mr. C. S. Hall suggested “ Temperance,” whilst another
auditor proposed “ The Religion of the Future,” which latter
was adopted on a show of hands, and Mrs. Tappan at once
proceeded to recite a poem, some twen'ty verses in length,
bearing on the chosen subject, which was an undeniably fine
composition, and eloquently delivered. The gathering then
passed a vote of thanks to the lecturess and dispersed.
The letter from Mr. Volckman, published' in our last,
reached us too late on the Wednesday of the preceding week,
for publication in the next issue. Only a very little matter,
which must reach the office by first post on Wednesdays, can,
as a general rule, be published the same week.
Recently, when Mr. Charles Blackburn attended a
seance at which Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox) was the medium, the
spirits gave a message to him, to be delivered to his friend,
Mr. James Wason, solicitor, Liverpool. Mrs. Jencken has
just written to us from Brighton, giving information that Mr.
Wason is satisfied that the message came from his departed
wife.
The National Association.—-Last Tuesday night a
meeting of the Council of the National Association of Spiri¬
tualists was held at 1, Great Oonduit-stfeet, Westminster, and
work connected with the election of officers and new members
of the Council proceeded with. A draft letter was sent to
Mr. Burns, certifying that certain statements published about
the Association were the reverse of fact, and had no founda¬
tion in truth. The organising work is going on harmoniously
and prosperously, and the prospectus will soon be published.
Jan. M 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Covmil.
Mr. George Blyton, I Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Comer, J Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E.J. Wilson.
Secretary <fc Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Buie IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted, to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, atthe Booms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.- A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIBVOTANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Bevealing Startling Facta
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms* One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Frederick Everitt, Newgate-street, Bishop Auckland.
MRS. OLIYE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street, Chalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seanob at the above address on Friday Evenings at Seven
o’clock. Admissioq, 2s. 6d.
MESMEBISM AND CLAIEVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
UGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 53, Great Coram-
street, Bussell-square, W.C.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo,
pb-780, price 7s. 6d. ■
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WHITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines, and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by Mr. C.H.Jeens—I. JesperSvedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Cov
to spiritualists, booksellees, and newsagents.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLEB, STATIONEB. AND PUBLISHEE, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
' and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies acfcepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, Cir¬
culating LIBBABY, &e., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
NOBTHEEN DEPOT FOB THE SALE OF SPIBITUAL LITEEATUBE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Beport at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MB. BABKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOB OF NATUBE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. TVie Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
SIBYL, Clairvoyante and Trance Medium, may be consulted
in all matters of ill-health or business. Terms 5s. each person. From
12 till 6. 53, Great Ooram-street, Bussell-square, W.O.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL AETICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Beports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIEST WBITEBS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-etreet. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMEBIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Bussell-square. Private Seances attended.
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium),
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily Albion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium,U seturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.’’—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MB. J. J. MOBSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.G., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 5§ of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PBACTICAL BOOKBINDEB, STATIONEB, BOOKSELLEE, LETTER¬
PRESS,, COPPEB-PLATE, AND LITHOGEAPHIC PBINTEE,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 2, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., P.Q-.S., Gr. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq,, M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Eobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary,' Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means' “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told, to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; t he. manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat'from,the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles,7 with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting' of a circle symptoms of other forms of
xnediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
"ORITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
_0 ' LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Bead 0#c«.-BB0WN STBEET And MAESDEN STEEET, MANCHESTER
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust. '
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STBEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PEOPEBTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GBOYE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
ir> ESPECTFULLY solicits tBe patronage of Owners of
JSCftJ House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Boad, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEE PLACE, PABK BOAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOE CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
Now ready, 14th Thousand, 54 Illustrations, post free 14 stamps. »
THE PEOPLE’S GUIDE TO HEALTH; or, VOLUN¬
TEERS’ MANUAL, by HENRY SMITH, M.D. (Jena.) Gives in¬
structions for Developing and Strengthening the human body, How to
regain Lost Health and Secure Long Life and avoid the Infirmities of
Old Age.
REVIEWS OF THE WORK.
“There is a daily growing necessity for such Works as the present,
if we are to be saved as a nation from retrograding.”—Stirling Observer,
July 10th. “ Any one in search of health and vigour will find it useful.”
—Morning Chronicle. “ If Dr. Smith had written nothing else than the
‘ People’s Guide to Health’ he would have earned for himself the grati¬
tude of posterity.”—Dumferndine Saturday Press, June 7, 1873.
Ward, Lock, and Tyler, Paternoster-row.
May be had direct from the Author on receipt of 14 stamps.
Address Dr. Henry Smith, 8, Burton-crescent, London, W.C.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON BOAD, BEIXTON.
The following Extract from the “ ACT to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of' any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent', any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.C.
