AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL -SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 111.-—(Vol. Y.—No. 15.) LONDON: OCTOBER 9, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
arontents.
Spirit Teachings. No. XVIII. ... ... ... ... ...    
Notes on. Church, of England Doctrines. No. V. By Anonjmous
Critics ...• ......’  ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Mr. Bradlaugh, the Bishop of Lincoln, and .the Spirits ...   ...
Katie King in America ... ... ... ... ... ...
Men Floating in the'Air at Seances in Leigh      ... ...L
Jocular Spirits in Wales ... ... ..; ... ... ...  
Spiritual Meetings at Goswell Hall  ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor's Mediumship:—Materialised Spirit Hands
—History of Mr. Harry Bastian’s Mediumship—History of Mr. Malcolm
Taylor’s Mediumehip—Iron Ring Manifestations—Mr. BastianPlaced
in a Cage during a Seance—Appearance of Materialised Spirits—
Two Spirits Appear at the Same Time and are Recognised—Five
Spirits Recognised—Conversations with Materialised Spirits—A Re¬
markable Test,... . ... ..V ...       ...
Spiritualism in Marylebone ... ...   ... ...   ...
The Evils of Unchecked Materialism    ... ...' ... .... ...
Spiritualism in Australia:—Direct Spirit Writing under New Condi-
PoetryAngel-Guarded ..;... ...   ...       
Correspondence:—Spirit Drawings—A Nice Spirit   
Answers to Correspondents ... ...' ... ... ..
Paragraphs:—Spiritual Lectures in Glasgow, 171? Foreign Spiritual
Literature, 171; Mr. Spurgeon on Spiritualism, 173;'The “Pioneer
of Progress,’’ 173; Mr. Venman’s Pamphlet on Spiritualism, 173;
Spiritualism in Swansea, 174; Materialisation Manifestations, 180;
Figaro on Spiritualism ... .,... .... ... ...   ...  
WI
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition. •
“HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
Y Y EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE, •
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.;' or post-free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
BIEKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4,'bn Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. f 9 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E;C.
LE MESSAQER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathbdrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
OF
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
A THIRD SERIES OF
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
Br MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
Committee.
A lexander Calder, Esq.. The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands Wimbledon Corrmoa,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbiidge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
; Webster Glynes, Esq.,'4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C. .
{lion. Secretary and Treasurer.) .
THE above ladies and gentlemen encouraged by the
success which attended the two former courses of lectures last
season by Mrs. Tappan, have formed themsslves into a committee with
power to add to their number for engaging that lady for the whole of the
coming season. -
There will be 36 lectures, commencing on the 29th of October, and
ending in June next, divided into courses of twelve each, which will be
delivered on Sunday evenings at The Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer
street, Portlahd-place.
A subscriber of £5 for the whole series 'will be entitled to a reserved
seat for himself and a friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures will be issued at
24s., and 12s. each.
• There will be a limited number of 6d. tickets. .
All seats not claimed five minutes before delivery of the address will be
filled up if required. ,
Tickets to be obtained only of the Secretary and Treasurer, on enclosing
post office order. Single Tickets will be sold at the doors.
THE LIVERPOOL~PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wasoh, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary-—Mr. Edwaid Hope,'74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lamont, Mr. William Meredith,'
Mr. G. Wharmby, Mr.- Dinsdale, Mr. R, Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditor's.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society Seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference; inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed,
liberal discount for cash.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 9, IS'M.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com-
rttittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
77(6 Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Eiohaed Futon, Secretary pro tem.
kALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. [Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Halston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.'
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the Beitish National1 Association
oe Spieitoalists. By Algeenon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holbofn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 61., First Series.
piAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
JU and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influences
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIYE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Authoe, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
BaillIeee & Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d,, or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
.t.—What are Angels? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—"Vyhat do the
Angels do? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STAND-POINT.
A Resume of Evidence—pro and'cow.
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
INGLE & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Turee Months, 75 cents.
, C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown Svo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
 London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill. 
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITOALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
The following discussions will be held at these Rooms as follows :—
Wednesday, Oct: 14th.—“ Is it expedient to retain the present fashion of.
English spelling ? ” Opened by Mr. Bull.
Wednesday,- Oct. 21 sf.—“ Cremation.” Opened by Mr. Paul.
Wednesday, Oct. 28<A—“ Is everlasting punishment taught in the New
Testament?” Opened by Mr. Hunt.
Wednesday, Nov. ith.—“ Capital punishment.” Opened by Mr. Moore.
Admission 2d. Commence at 8 o’clock.
C. J, Hunt, Secretary.
GOSWELL HALL.
I. BULLOCK! (Trance Speaker) will LECTURE
on SUNDAY EVENINGS (commencing on the 27th of September),
at GOSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, EC.
Lectures on the following Subjects will be given by Mrs. BULLOCK,
under the Influence of her Spirit-guides: —
October4th. “Death Destroyed; or, Man’s Eternal Career proved by
Modern Spiritualism.”
October 11th.—“Nature, and the Laws of Nature; the Lesson of Life.”
October 18th.—“The essence of the Spirit of God.”
October 25th.—“The Unity of Spiritual Truths.”
November 1st.—“The Celestial Heaven.”
After this Course subjects for Lectures may be ’selected by the
Audience. Doors open at 6 30, service at 7. Investigators and others,
desiring information, may communicate with Mr. JOHN W. HAXBY, 8,
Sandall-road, Camden Town, N. W.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, &c
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy Svo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITING By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four te el Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—x Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden!
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
T C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
O © SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for 7%®Newspaper.
VOiLUJVIE flYE. JHUjVIBEP^ FIFTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9th, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty "Words, and
sixpence for. every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrespondenob.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. TV. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. T.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &e., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London,' is one shilling.
F
SPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.1’—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent ”—Brighton Guardian.
Mr. Morse will sail for America on Thursday, October 15th, per steam-ship
Celtic, White Star Line. He can receive no more engagements prior to
his departure, his time being fully engaged.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XYIII.
[J made no rejoinder to what was last said, hut I
thought over it, and was preparing to say somewhat,
when I was imperiously stopped. The hand dashed off
with violent speed, and the communication following was
written without pause in an incredibly short space of
time. So vehement was the effort that I was in a state of
semi-trance until it was complete.^
Stay t stay! stay! Attempt not now to argue, but
learn yet again of the truth. You are impatient, and
it is in your mind to say foolish things. What matters
it to you if what we say contradicts that which others
have believed ? Why shrink back at that ? Does not
all faith firmly grasped contradict some other faith? Nay,
does not each faith contain within itself elements of con¬
tradiction ? If you know not so much as that, then are
you not fit to go forward. From those old creeds and
faiths, venerable in their antiquity, but crude too
frequently in development, men have derived com¬
fort. They have found their utterances convenient and
suitable for them. They have derived from them a
satisfaction which they do not bring to you. Why ?
Because your spirit has outgrown those old, and to you
lifeless, utterances. They benefit you not. They are
powerless to stir your soul. They have no voice for
your spirit: no remedy for your wants. They are but
faint and far-off echoes of what to some was a living
voice, but which to you is cold and meaningless.
Why, then, perplex yourself at that ? Why linger,
striving in vain to extract a meaning from that which
to you has none ? Why turn a deaf ear to the living
voice which cries to your soul from the land beyond in
accents which are living, burning, true ? Why refuse
to listen when the voice speaks of the true, the spiritual,
the noble, of all that is real and actual in place of the
dying or the dead ? Why, for a fancy—from reverence
for a lifeless past—cut yourself off from the living pre¬
sent, from the communion of spirits, from the society
of those who can tell you noble truths of God and of
your destiny ?
Surely this is but madness, only the influence of
spirits who would gladly hold back the soul and drag
it down to earth. Were our revelation a blank con-
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John's-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to stats that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 9, 1874
tradiction of the old, what is that to you ? Ours
speaks in living accents to your spirit; you know it;
you drink it in, and find it to he a blessed influence.
The old is dead to you. "Why linger round the lifeless
form ? Why embrace the mouldering corpse which
was once a living being instinct with Divine truth ?
Your sacred records tell you how, at the sepulchre
of Jesus, the angel message to the sorrowing friends
was one of aspiration. “ Why seek ye the living among
the dead ? He is not here, He is risen.” So, friend,
we say to you. Why linger in the dead past, the
sepulchre of buried truth, seeking, in fruitless sorrow,
for that which is no longer there ? It is not there,
it is risen. It has left the body of dogmatic teaching
which once for a restless age enshrined Divine truth.
There remains hut the dead casket. The jewel is gone.
The spirit has risen, and lo! we proclaim to you
sublime truth, a nobler creed, and a Diviner God.
The voice which in ages past has sounded in the ears
of those to whom has been entrusted the Divine mission
on their earth and to their generation, reaches even to
this age and to you. It has ever been so. God deals
now in no other sort than he has ever dealt with men.
He calls them up to fuller light, to higher truth. It is
theirs to accept or to reject the heavenly message.
Probably it has been to each aspiring soul a difficulty
that the past, the familiar, the venerable faith has
charms from which it is hard to sever. In the first
blush of perplexity it seems to the bewildered spirit
that all must go that is old and cherished, and the new
and untried must be accepted. It seems to be a death;
and man shrinks from death. Yes ; but it is a death
unto life. It is a passage through the tomb to a land
of life and hope. Even as the spirit soars in freedom
from the body of death from which it has been eman¬
cipated, so does the enfranchised spirit, set free from
the trammels of the past, soar aloft in liberty, the
liberty of the truth, which, Jesus said, alone can make
man free. You know it not now; but you shall know
it hereafter.
This, then, is our cry to you. Why turn your face
to the dead past, when the living present and the
bright future attract, and promise rich store of bless¬
ing ? Were we in our mission the absolute contradic¬
tion of the old, what is that to you ? The old words
are spiritless, and you cannot infuse into them again
the spirit that is gone. Leave them to those for whom
they still have a voice and a meaning, and follow with
unfaltering step the impulses of the Divine Spirit which
lures you on to higher views of truth. Quit the dead
past, though it be to journey through a new present to
an unknown future.
But, friend, it is not so. The past casts a glamour
over you, and you share the common idea that the new
must utterly destroy the old. Did Jesus so say ? Did
He counsel the abolition of the Mosaic teaching ? 5Tet,
as we have before said, our teaching is no more startling
development as compared with His than was His as
compared with Moses. That which we present for
your acceptance is the complement rather than the
contradiction of the old; the growth to a fuller stature ;
the development of a wider knowledge.
If you meditate deeply on the state of the world
when Jesus proclaimed to it His reformed faith, you
will see many points of similarity to that which now
obtains among men. It is not, we reiterate, more
startling to read the gospel which we preach alongside
of that which passes current among men for religion
than it was to put the gospel of Jesus in juxtaposition
to the ritual of Pharisaism, or the sceptical indifferent-
ism of Sadducee. The world then needed a new re¬
velation, even as it does now ; and that which it re¬
ceived was not less startling than is this to those who
love the old and desire not to be stirred from the paths
to which they are accustomed.
In those days, even as now, the revelation of God,
which had been adapted to the special wants of a
special people, had been overlaid with rubbish, until it
had become a mass of ritual without a meaning and
Without life. Eor many long years the voice of God
had not been heard, and man had begun to crave, as
he craves now, for a renewal of the Divine message.
The old had become dead, and he sought for a new and
living voice. It came to him—this Divine utterance—
in the voice of Jesus; from a source the most unlikely,
as men think ; from a quarter least calculated to com¬
mand the respect of the educated Pharisee, or to carry
conviction to the scoffing Sadducee. Yet that voice
prevailed, and for 1800 years has animated the religious
life of Christendom. The creed so originated has be¬
come debased, but the spirit of the Crucified is in it
even now ; and it needs but the vivifying touch to call
it forth into new life. The old rags with which man
has thought to clothe it may readily be thrown aside,
and the truth shine all the brighter for their loss.
The source from which our revelation comes is not
more strange than was the source of that power wielded
by Him who was to His generation the despised carpenter
of Nazareth. Men sneered at Him in the plenitude of
their scorn; even as they have sneered at everything
new; even as they sneer at us. They were ready to
stare at His marvels ; they would follow Him in hosts
to marvel at the physical miracles which were wrought
through Him ; but they were not sufficiently spiritual
to drink in His teachings. They are ready now to
wonder at us and our mighty works, even as they
wondered then. Even as then they sought for yet further
and further tests—“Come down from the cross, and we
will believe on thee ”—so now there is even one more
test which is necessary to ensure complete conviction.
They called Him a deceiver, even as they cry out now.
They hooted Him out of their society; they drove Him
out of their midst, and they strove by their laws and by
their influence to crush out the new doctrine from their
land. New it was indeed, but the truth that it
enshrined was old, old as the God who gave it, only
new in form. Ours is new now, but the time shall
come when men shall see that it is but the risen truth
of ages past, rejuvenescent and eternal.
The Divine truth which we proclaim is not more
strange to you than was the message of Jesus to His
age—the age that sneeringly asked whether any
educated person of position and respectability—“ any of
the Pharisees or the rulers”— had believed on him.
Both were progressive developments of the same con¬
tinuous stream of truth, suited to the wants and
cravings of those to whom they were vouchsafed.
Meditate on the mental condition of Nicodemus, and
contrast it with that of many such in your own day.
And be assured that the same power which availed to
stir the dead faith of the Jew, and to reveal his God
more clearly, is still able to infuse new life into the well-
nigh lifeless body of Christian faith, and to restore it to
energy and vitality.
May the All-wise guide bless and keep you.
+ I. S. D.
Oct. 9, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
171
NOTES ON CHURCH OF ENGLAND DOCTRINES.*
NO. V.
BY ANONYMOUS CBITICS.
We will ask you now to lay aside for a time your
preconceived ideas and religious views, and to consider
dispassionately what we have to tell you respecting the
origin of sin, and the purpose which it appears to us to
fulfil in the economy of God’s beneficent laws.
We have shown you, as clearly as we have the power
to do, that the teaching of your Church on the subject
is irreconcilable with reason, and wholly inconsistent
with the love and justice of the Creator.
We will now try to convey to you some adequate
conception of our views; they are, indeed, widely diver¬
gent from the teachings of the Christian Church, and
they lack the authority of any recognised revelation.
We hope, however, that they will commend themselves
to your judgment as being natural, reasonable, and
just.
It would be difficult for you with your present civi¬
lization to realise how barbarous and little human were
the forefathers of your race. They were removed above
the animal world solely by inherent—albeit, for the
most part, dormant—faculties, which the latter did not
possess. Chief among these was the gift of speech.
Man, nevertheless, was Divine, for God had breathed
into him the spiritual essence of His own eternal being,
and endowed him with a capacity of moral and spiritual
development. To these were added an intuitive per¬
ception of the existence of a Supreme Being, and of a
future and higher existence. He was placed in a world
beautiful beyond expression, fertile and grateful for the
toil that he bestowed upon it, blessed indeed, by no
means accursed, for his sake.
This home he was to inhabit for a short space of
time, that he might there take his first lessons in the
true knowledge of good and evil.
These were prepared for him by the passions and
wants of his nature, which were imperious and in¬
satiable, but which, in progress of time, he would learn
by sad experience, must be subjected to restraint. To
this end his world and his own moral and physical
nature were subjected to laws infinitely wise, just, and
comprehensive, and men destined to become, some day,
ministers and angels of God, are learning in this rough
school that misery must inevitably follow the disregard
of these immutable laws.
Such an amount of personal “ free will” as they
could bear, and as was good for them, did they receive,
but the Father’s love was ever over ^them, to guide,
warn, or restrain.
He has ever and anon raised up among them gifted
and holy men, who by their example and the legacy of
wise precepts have controlled and elevated their fellows.
To others have been given high spiritual knowledge and
perception of truth, and such men have been the
founders of “ religions.”
Christians are too much in the habit of commenting
on all religions other than their own in terms of pity
or reprobation, forgetting in their zeal that, although
they may have good grounds for preferring the Divine
calm and holiness of Christ’s teaching to all others, yet
that God is the author of all religions.
From Him and Him alone is derived the relative
moral superiority of one man over his fellows, which
alone can give birth to a religion.
* Given through the mediumship of a gentleman who does not wish his
name to be published.—Ed,
Thus in truth it becomes a Divine revelation, espe¬
cially suited to the people among whom it is promul¬
gated, and to the Divine purposes it is intended to
forward.
Why weary your minds in seeking for the source of
“ original sin.” A moment’s reflection will tell you
that all that is not perfection must partake more or
less of the nature of evil. There is but one good, that
is God, and all that is not God must necessarily be
tainted with imperfection.
You, however, belie and dishonour the nature which
God has given you by pronouncing it to be altogether
evil and abominable. Man derives his jbeing from a
Divine source, and in his nature is implanted a tendency
to righteousness in preference to evil. Does not your
own experience prove to you that no man can be wholly
bad, and that the worst natures are able to appreciate
and to admire purity in others ?
Your sins are often—we may say generally—the
result of circumstances. We tell you that you are very
low in the scale of creation, and your ignorance of
spiritual and even of worldly matters is aggravated by
the requirements of your animal nature. Why wonder
that you are slow to learn that self-restraint and
obedience are essential to happiness, and must be
acquired, ere you can be fit to enjoy a higher state
of existence.
To make men righteous by an exercise of Almighty
power, would seem to form no part of the plan of the
Creator;—had it so pleased Him, it was in His power,
but where then would have been their experience ?
How could they appreciate good who have never known
evil?
Do not conceive that in what we have written above,
we would in any way deny that the world is groaning
under the weight of sin, but we wish you to realise that
although wisdom and righteousness have a weary task
to perform, ere they establish their dominion over the
earth, yet that it is not a hopeless one, seeing that they
have a secret ally in the hearts of every one of you.
We wish you to form a rational conception of the
sources of evil, and the purposes for which it is
permitted, and thus to persuade you that the existence
of a devil, a king of evil, is a baseless product of the
human imagination. We will not here enlarge upon
this subject, for it is one that will require separate
consideration.
Spibitual Lectuees in Glasgow.—Dr. Sexton was in
Glasgow on Sunday last, and delivered a discourse on “ Spiritual
Philosophy versus Materialistic Science, with especial refer¬
ence to the address of Professor Tyndall.” The Trades’ Hall
was engaged for the occasion, and a very large audience assem¬
bled ; all the listeners appeared to like the oration, which was
of two hours’ Jduration. As it was Sunday evening the pro¬
ceedings took the form of a regular religious service.
Foreign Spiritual Literature.—Mr. William Oxley’s
description of a seance with Katie King, and Mr. Noyes’ letter
to the Archbishop of Canterbury, have been reprinted from
The Spiritualist in the Progressive Spiritualist, Australia.
One of Mr. Thornton’s descriptions of a divining rod seance
has been published in the Peligio-Philosophical Journal,
Chicago, U.S., and the poem on M. Buguet’s spirit photo¬
graphs has been quoted from The Spiritualist in the Banner
of Light, Boston, U.S. Psychische Studien (Leipzig) has re¬
published from these pages articles by Mr. Crookes and Prince
Wittgenstein about seances with Miss Cook, Mr. Webster
Glynes’ account of the seance at Buckingham Palace Hotel,
our descriptions of seances with Miss Showers at the house of
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, and Mr. H. G. Atkinson’s account
of the position assumed by the late Dr. Hunt, president of the
Anthropological Society, in relation to Spiritualism.
172
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 9, 1874.
MR. BRADLAUGH, THE BISHOP OF LINCOLN, AND
THE SPIRITS.
Mb. Henby Meeson, of Manchester, who is not a Spirit¬
ualist, but says that he knows from practical experience that
there are plenty of spirits about, and most of them evil ones,
has sent us a pamphlet full of correspondence, showing how
he undertook the tough task of converting Mr. Bradlaugh to
his opinions. Some of Mr. Bradlaugh’s replies in the Na¬
tional Reformer are characteristic:—
Henry Meeson—While thanking you for your earnest
letter, we fail to see how we are to distinguish between what
you describe as the delusions “ plentiful as blackberries, in
lunatic asylums,” and the special communications made to
you day by day by spirits. (June 28th.)
H. Meeson—How are we to be assured that the revelation
you urge on us is not your delusion ? Swedenborg, Johanna
Southcott, and Irving were as sincere as you. How are we to
distinguish between your statement and that of Joseph Smith,
the Mormon leader ? On all but one point you write sanely
enough; but so do many who are adjudged lunatics. You are
not the only one submitting to us similar special communica¬
tions ; to be effective, they should be direct. (July 5th.)
H. Meeson, drawing our attention to the plant exhibited at
the British Association by Dr. Hooker, which captured and
digested flies, other insects, and flesh, asks: “Is this the
result of a congregation of chance atoms, or the result of an
intelligent power?” Chance is a word without meaning.
The intelligent power which planned vegetable traps to catch
insects, and stew them to death, would hardly be worth
worshipping. (Aug. 30th.)
H. Meeson—We cannot trace the designs of infinite love in
the perch worrying the minnow, the jack mangling the dace,
the trout fiercely chasing the bleak. You think us unfair, we
think you misled; you have the advantage of spirits to guide
you, we have not. (Sept. 6th.)
H. Meeson—The question is not, does the trout like eating
bleak, but does the bleak like being eaten? not is God good to
provide bleak and minnows as food for trout, but is God good
in providing trout, to chase, worry, mangle, and swallow bleak
and minnows ? You say that the “ Almighty Power ” has
“ provided for the wants of all living things.” Yet some of all
animals, not excluding men and women, die starved; some
birds, hares, and rabbits, wounded by sportsmen, die a linger¬
ing death in their holes; some die horribly from thirst in the
desert, some from cold in the north. When you ask us
if we can weigh thought, you ask nonsense. We can weigh the
organism without which you have no thought. You cannot
weigh brightness; you can weigh the bright thing. You can¬
not weigh hardness; you can weigh the hard thing. You
cannot weigh any characteristic; you can weigh the thing
characterised. (Sept. 13th.)
Mr. Meeson has also published the following letter in
leaflet form;—
To the Lord Bishop of Lincoln.
My Lord,—Your remarks yesterday about cremation {Daily
Telegraph) are to me, and to the multitude of spirits who
listened to my reading them, most perfectly absurd. “ The
body exists, a spiritual body, when it leaves the flesh,”—there
is no resurrection of the mortal body at the last day.
When you look up into the sky, you look into, and through,
an immense multitude of spiritual life, which can influence
enormously the affairs of this earth for good or for evil.
We are surrounded on the face of the earth by infinite
millions of evil spirits of various kinds, the great bulk
idolatrous Christian sinners !—to me they speak ;—they are
more perfect in the spirit state than in the flesh ; knowing,
talking, and reasoning on the daily affairs of mankind.
All our thoughts are known to them, they see mankind as
they are, not as they seem to be to each other.—Yours, &c.,
Heney Meeson.
185, Badnor-street, Manchester, 6th July, 1874.
P.S.—I think it should be known, that none of the spirits
connected with this earth have any conception of the per¬
sonality of a God, but of an infinite power, pervading all
things, incomprehensible, but ever present. The spirits them¬
selves are personal individualities. All worshippers of the
Trinity are idolatrous evil spirits—baptism is the first step in
idolatry, put on the earth by the evil spirits after Jesus was
crucified.—Matthew 28.
KATIE KING IN AMERICA.
Mr. Robert Dale Owen- and others have written
accounts of some marvellous manifestations they have
witnessed in America, through the mediumship of Mr.
and Mrs. Holmes, under strict test conditions, which, in
this case, were necessary, the mediums not being trust¬
worthy persons. A spirit calling herself “ Katie King”
manifested, and claimed to be the same Katie King who
recently made so great a sensation in this country. A
careful examination of the different statements she makes
tends to prove that this is not the case, or that the
difficulties spirits have in communicating through
mediums tend to destroy nearly all evidence of their
own identity.
The American Katie is reported, in the Religio-
Philosophical Journal (Chicago) of June 6th, to have
said to Dr. Childs in Philadelphia, “ I think Professor
Crookes is nonsense. He is an old maid. He has
plagued my medium badly. Professor Crookes gets all
the wires, and strings, and lamps, and everything about
him. I don’t like him. He is stupid.” The truth is,
that Mr. Crookes had his wires and strings about the
Holmes’s during some of their manifestations in Lon¬
don, and was not pleased with the results, though he,
probably, knowing the peculiar conditions surrounding
manifestations would not be disposed to draw hasty
conclusions. Mr. Crookes did not plague Miss Cook
badly, but proved himself one of her truest friends.
Neither is Mr. Crookes an old maid, so far as the Royal
Society knows. And why do American newspapers, as
well as spirits, call Mr. Crookes a professor ? He is not
one. Generally speaking, a professor is a man who
wears a dress fitting tightly to his skin, and with a
band round his head; he turns head over heels on a
small square piece of carpet at the corners of streets,
brings three eggs out of a handkerchief, swings balls
about at the ends of a long rope, and balances knives
on the end of his nose. The immortal Katie further
said, “ Professor Crookes is a humbug ; he will kill my
medium if she don’t come away. ' Write to Mr. Black¬
burn, care of Willie Harrison.” The antagonistic feel¬
ing of the Holmes’s to Mr. Crookes was fully expressed
in the utterances of Katie.
After these things had been published in America,
Mrs. Conant went into a trance in Boston, and talked
in the same strain, saying that people were forcing
Miss Cook to sit too much, using up her vitality, and
killing her generally, all this revelation professing to
be a warning from Katie King herself. The truth is
that Miss Cook wanted to sit more frequently than Mr.
Crookes or anybody else desired; she only had three
sittings a fortnight, and towards the close Katie her¬
self, and no mortal, urged her to sit during two or three
weeks more frequently than Miss Cook desired. No¬
body could have been more careful of her health than her
parents, Mr. Blackburn, and Mr. Crookes; the latter was
a true friend in every way, even to the extent of testify¬
ing publicly to the truth of the very astounding mani¬
festations, which for a man with a high scientific re¬
putation to lose, was a very serious duty to do.
Spiritualists should be very grateful to him for all he
has done.
As a further point in connection with this vexed
question of spirit identity, it may be mentioned that
the original Katie communicates on rare occasions,
though she does not show herself, and she emphati¬
cally denies that she is the spirit who communicated
with Mr. Dale Owen in Philadelphia.
Oct. 9, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
173
MEN FLOATING IN THE AIR AT SEANCES IN
LEIGH.
The Leigh Chronicle, of Sept. 26th, contains a long, well-
written article about Spiritualism in South Lancashire, and
says:—
For seventeen years (next October being the seventeenth
anniversary) the Spiritualists have had a society of their own
in Leigh, and have met for singing and investigation without
let or hindrance, and without seeking to obtrude their
peculiar doctrines upon their neighbours. They have kept
together and followed their own inclination, despite some
petty persecution—not, however, so grossly ridiculous as that
experienced by their friends in Westhoughton, where notice
to quit was given to the tenant of a house at which the
meetings were held, on the original grounds that the landlord
would not have “ boggarts ” brought into his property! The
Spiritualists in Leigh now form, in numerical strength, a very
respectable society, the meetings being held in one of the
cottages at Mount Pleasant, Twist-lane. At one of these
meetings, held on Sunday evening last, the writer was
present, without any special invitation for that particular
evening.
The “ chapel,” in which the small congregation meets, was
formerly a loom shop for two looms, in size about 12 ft. by
8 ft. 6 in. in width. The alterations and fittings were done, so
the writer was informed, according to the instructions of a
spirit calling himself “ John King.” The spirits, who kindly
acted as consulting architects, ordered the floor to be laid
eight inches from the ground (a wise sanitary precaution), and
displayed their puritanical tendencies as regards church archi¬
tecture by proscribing paint and paper, and directing the
walls and ceilings to be simply whitewashed, and the curtains
to be either green, blue, or violet—most sober and economical
colours. These instructions were carefully followed, and the
plain whitewashed and green-curtained room was, and is still,
simply furnished with a few chairs, an old piano or spinet, a
bench, and an ordinary round table with three legs. Shortly
before eight o’clock, about twelve or fifteen persons having
assembled, the meeting was commenced. At the small table
were seated eight persons, four of whom were subject to
“ spirit ” influence, the other four including a little girl and
the writer. A hymn, “ Sow in the morn thy seed,” was then
sung to a well-known tune, and during the singing one of the
mediums violently agitated himself and gradually, so it was
said, became “ developed.” The light was then subdued by
the curtain being drawn before it, and the medium, by
signs, desired his feet to be tied, signifying that the writer
was the sceptic for whose benefit this precaution against
imposition was taken. During the singing of a hymn the table
became violently agitated, and then danced in unison with the
time of the singing. These eccentricities on the part of the
“spirits” were displayed through the medium of the table whilst
the hands of those sitting around it were raised, and those of the
medium under ‘1 influence ” were simply held over it. The table
floated from the floor and actually danced to the music and sing-
ingwithout any physical assistance from those seated or standing
around, so far as the writer could judge; and efforts on his
part to prevent the movements of the table, or to press it
down with his hand when tilted towards him, were unsuc¬
cessful, although, by using his feet at the same moment, it
was manifest that the legs of the table were clear from the
floor, and that the table floated in the air. The sensation
experienced when trying to press down the table was precisely
that felt when unsuccessfully endeavouring to thrust a floating
body beneath, or to force it deeper into the water. After the
table had proved to the faithful the presence of intelligent
spirits, whose heavenly duties permitted them to unbend their
thoughts to such trifling acts as a means of communicating
with mortal men, the party sang the Sunday-school hymn, so
great a favourite among the little ones—“ Let us gather at
the river.” The table was again violently sportive, and the
medium requested a chair to be placed on the top. This was
done, and whilst the music was played and sung very softly
the writer was requested to seat himself upon the .chair.
Having at once taken a seat on this elevated position, those
around the table stood with hands elevated, and, whilst the
piano was played, the table and the writer, seated in the chair
upon it, rose from the floor, and floated upwards several inches
in spite of the efforts of the medium to drag it to the ground
by hanging on the chair back. An effort by the writer, who
was raised within a few inches of the ceiling, to push the
table downwards by pressing against the ceiling joist was
equally unsuccessful, and after floating and dancing about in
the air the table descended apparently of its own accord. The
medium violently struck the table several times whilst it was
suspended in the air at. least nine or ten inches from the
ground, but without moving it in the least by the blows. To
illustrate the weakness of the will, and to disprove a theory
based upon the supposed almost supernatural power of the
mind over inert matter, the company were also asked to will
that the table should move. Whether or not all present did
mentally desire a repetition of the table’s previous behaviour
is of course beyond the bounds of evidence, but the writer
certainly willed a “ big will,” but the table treated his silent
wishes with contempt. A chair was again placed on the table,
and when lifted by the medium the table followed it, and the
two danced in a most eccentric manner to the music played on
the piano, those around standing with their hands away from
the table, and beating time with their feet. One of the Spirit¬
ualists—a heavy man of perhaps twelve stone weight—was
then seated on the chair, and experienced the same honour as
that granted by the spirits to the writer. The table with its
human freight floated eight or nine inches from the floor, and
whilst in the air the medium shook hands with the person
seated in the chair, and made another ineffectual attempt to
weigh the table down by hanging upon the chair back. During
nearly the whole of the manifestations the company either
sang or the musical instruments were played. It was then
suggested that as the mediums were doubtless fatigued, and
as the room was very close and warm, that it would be best to
close the sitting. Some verses of the Evening Hymn (by no
means limited to Spiritualist gatherings), “ Father, breathe an
evening blessing,” was accordingly sung, during which those
in a trance or semi-trance state were restored to conscious¬
ness, and the congregation broke up, the sitting having been,
so the writer was informed, only an ordinary one, and but very
average manifestations having been given.
Mr. Robert Dale Owen will visit England, in the
spring of next year.
Mr. Spurgeon on Spiritualism.—The following para¬
graph is from Mr. Spurgeon’s periodical, The Sword and
Trowel, so-called, perhaps, because he treats his unfriends
with the sword, and smooths down his supporters with the
trowelWe had aforetime considered Spiritualism to be a
mere humbug, to be best assailed by ridicule, and such we
still believe it to be in most cases; but Mr. Pridham’s work
puts a much more serious face upon the business, and certainly
makes us think that the devil has a good deal more to do with
it than we imagined.”
The “ Pioneer oe Progress.”—In the last number of the
Pioneer of Progress its editor says:—“ On Sunday last, Sept.
27th, Mr. J. J. Morse occupied the platform of the Islington
Assembly Rooms, Liverpool, afternoon and evening, the chair
being taken by Mr. John Lament. In the afternoon, Mr.
Lament made reference to the presence amongst them of the
editor of the Pioneer of Progress, and spoke in commendatory
terms of that journal, saying, that it had taken the place of a
leading exponent of the spiritual philosophy in this country.
He believed it would do much good by the judicious manner
in which it presented Spiritualism to the public mind, and
expressed his pleasure at the freedom of its columns from that
unnecessary personal discussion and abuse which, unfor¬
tunately, too often characterised our other weeklies. He con¬
cluded by urging the friends to support Mr. Farmer in the
arduous work he was carrying on. Dr. Hitchman then read a
most pathetic incident of spirit-cure.”
Mr. Yenman’s Pamphlet on Spiritualism.—The
number of London Society published last week says:—“ The
pamphlet entitled Spiritualism—the Modern Mystery, is a re¬
print of two lectures delivered on that subject by Mr. H.
Yenman. The question is really viewed (as it professes to be)
from a neutral standpoint, and will, therefore, appeal to many
who neither believe nor disbelieve in the matter treated of.
Byron said that ‘ he was a fool who disbelieved what he could
not disprove;’ and with regard to Spiritualism, there is no
doubt that its strongest opposers find the task of proving its
untruth more difficult than they imagined it would be. Mr.
Yenman’s pamphlet is worthy of notice, if only from the fact
that it is neutral. It is refreshing in these days of wordy
warfare to find one person capable of arguing a point without
losing his temper or insisting on his view being the only cor¬
rect one. We do not think Mr. Yenman is favourably inclined
towards Spiritualism ; but he brings forward all the arguments
for as well as against it, and never loses sight of the character
he claims for himself.”
174
THE SPIRITUALIST.
JOCULAR SPIRITS IN WALES.
To the Editor of the South Wales Daily News.
Sib,—I read in your paper of Wednesday an interesting
account of a seance at Llanelly, at which some marvellous
things were done. As every new discovery or manifestation
contributes to the elucidation of Spiritualism, I hope that the
facts I am about to relate will prove useful to the learned pro¬
fessors of the science who devote their time and talents to its
development.
Some months ago the disciples of the new science at this
place were daily engaged in the practice of Spiritualism. Not
a night passed without a seance, and the manifestations were
of a most gratifying kind. One evening, however, the party
were astonished at the name of the spirit that answered to the
enquiry of the medium. The usual question was put, “Is it
a spirit?” Answer, “Yes.”—“What name?” The raps
under the table gave distinctly the letters t, r, i, m—Trim.
Every one was astonished, and the question was repeated.
The same reply followed, but with greater distinctness than
before. “ Trim, Trim, what a funny name,” was echoed by
more than one of the company. “ Why,” said one of the
party, “ that was the name of Mr. Taylor’s old dog. I wonder
if it is his spirit?” “ Put the question,” said another to the
medium. “ Are you the spirit of a man ? ” A distinct “ No ”
was the reply. “ Then what are you ? ” The raps indicated
the letters d, o, g—Dog. The astonishment of the party was
indescribable, for it had never before been reported that the
spirits of departed dogs had ever appeared to the most ac¬
complished medium.
The party was on the point of breaking up when the medium,
who is a courageous man, said, “ Let us go on and see what
Trim has to say. I knew Trim in his day, and he may have
an important message to convey to us.” The party assented.
“Well, Trim,” enquired the medium, “How are you?”
“Happy,” was the reply. “Any fighting now?” “No;
peace prevails here.” “Who killed you?” was the next
question, to which the spirit of Trim answered, “ My new
master.’’ “Why?” said the medium. “Because he would
not pay the dog tax.”
The excitement of the party by this time had been roused
to such a pitch that, notwithstanding all the coolness of the
medium, the answers became indistinct and confused, and the
seance broke up in a condition better imagined than described.
Perhaps some of your correspondents have witnessed similar
manifestations from the spirits of dogs or other kinds of dumb
animals. If they have, they would, by reporting the same,
confer a favour on many, besides
One who Knew Old Trim in the Flesh.
Hirwain, South Wales, Sept. 30,1874.
SPIRITUAL MEETINGS AT GOSWELL HALL.
Sunday lectures are given at the Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-
road, E.O., by Mrs. Bullock, a trance-medium. The admis¬
sion is free. Last Sunday evening Mr. John W. Haxby pre¬
sided.
Mr. Haxby first read a chapter from the Bible, then he
asked any persons present who knew nothing about Spirit¬
ualism not to condemn it before investigating the matter, for
thereby they would in ignorance make a great mistake, which
hereafter they might be glad to repent; they should first con¬
sider how much wisdom they had stored up, and then ask
themselves the question whether they had no room for more.
They should get the manifestations for themselves, and after
obtaining them ascertain whether they came from the spirit
world or not; they might receive communications from rela¬
tives. They should search after spiritual truths while they
had the opportunity, no matter at what labour, time, or cost,
and they would discover what a glorious light had dawned
upon mankind in modern Spiritualism: it shone upon rich
and poor alike. He had much pleasure in introducing Mrs.
Bullock to their notice ; a spirit would entrance her, and
through her organism deliver an address on “Death Destroyed,
or Man’s Eternal Career proved by Modern Spiritualism,”
unless the spirit did not like the subject and chose another.
The eyes of Mrs. Bullock, who was sitting on a chair on
the platform, were then closed, and one of her hands rested
upon her forehead; she sat thus quite still for about four
minutes, and all the observers were very quiet. Then her
head fell back and her arms were outstretched before her,
but shortly afterwards she sat up, made a few passes with her
hands over her throat and forehead, and asked Mr. Bullock to
Oct. 9, 1874
lower the gas-lights immediately in front of her, and to close
the door of the hall. A hymn was then sung, after which she
stood up fully entranced, and uttered a prayer. .
In the course of the lecture the communicating spirit said
that he would change the title of it to “ The Fear of Death
Destroyed.” How^w^s it possible to destroy Death, who was
himself the destroyer of all things which have to pass away ?
The flowers pass away in the autumn time, and in like manner
did man lose his external form, but' the spirit within was the
real man; it never died, it only passed through a series of
changes. Spiritualism demonstrated that there was no death
for the spirit, which survived the death of the body, carrying
its affections and intellect unchanged to another sphere
of existence. Men feared death, because they had been taught
that there was a bourne beyond the grave from which no
traveller ever returned, and they dreaded the unknown future,
but the demonstrations of Spiritualism entirely dissipated such
errors, consequently took away all fear of death. The spirit
continued :—We now return to testify that there is no death.
When a mother is lying upon her dying bed, leaving her darling
child who she knows will be unprotected materially in this life,
she says :—“ Dearest I must leave you, I know that I am going
to die.” It seems to tear the heart-strings of the mother’s
bosom to part from her child, and nearly all the terror and
trouble are caused by her knowing nothing of the life beyond.
The child yearns for her departed mother, and gazing at the
cold form cries in anguish, “ Mother dear, speak to me only
one word,” and sits down laden with heavy trouble, looking
upon death as a final separation. But what says the spirit:—
“ She is not dead ! She stands by your side 1 ” and the child
says, “ I feel as if she were near me.” If only one hope could
arise that the mother was not finally dead, what happiness it
would bring to that child! And if the mother had left with,
the full knowledge that death was only a change of state, she
would have said to the child, “My darling, I know I must
leave you now; the material form has decayed, and I can use
it no longer, but remember that my love for you will never
cease, that you will be more than ever endeared to me, and
I will manifest myself.” And the child will reply, “ Mother,
I know that you will be able inxguide my feet where’er I tread,
to sustain me in my journey through life, and I will trust to
you, mother dear.” Think you not that with knowledge like
this the fear of death is taken awky ? The child looks upon
the cold form merely as an empjty tabernacle, and says, “ My
loved mother does not need it now.”
Tes, side by side, we will sit and talk
Of the days that are past and gone,
And feel that the tie is still loving and firm
Which has bound us together so long.
At the close of the lecture the chairman said that any of the
listeners might put questions.
How can man, who is a sinner, he just before God ?
Mrs. Bullock replied that it was generally supposed that
men could be just before God, by shifting their sins on to the
shoulders of an innocent and perfectly good man, but this was
the height of injustice. The way to be just before God was
for a man to get rid of his sins himself, to practise them no
more, and to be true, and just, and loving in all the actions of
his life.
Death is supposed to give pain both to mind and body. Is
it so ?
Mrs. Bullock replied that most of the pain was caused by
the needless fear of death. Much of the apparent suffering
of the dying was not due to physical pain ; the separation of
the spirit often caused convulsive but painless motions of the
body.
The meeting then broke up.
Me. J. J. Moese read a long, carefully considered paper
at the late National Conference of Spiritualists, on the subject
of “ Inspirational Mediumship.” It has just been published
in pamphlet form at a cheap rate by Mr. Farmer, and is well
worth reading.
Spieitttalissi iit Swansea. — Captain Hudson writes
from 16, St. Mary-street, Swansea, saying—“I am happy to
state we have some wonderful seances here at our weekly
meeting, as well as at the houses of some of our members.
We are beginning to develope mediumship among ourselves,
and we have had a visit from a very good medium from Shrews¬
bury ; some strong manifestations have been obtained.
Several Swansea people have been wishing to come to t^e
seances—so many that we have told them to try to get manifesta¬
tions in their own homes.”
THE SPIHITUALiST.
175
Opt. 9, 1874.
MESSRS. BA.STIAN AND TAYLOR’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Messes. Basxian and Taylok, two very good profes¬
sional mediums, who recently arrived in this country
from America, have been and are at present giving
seances at 2, Yernon-place, Bloonjsbury, London, W.C.,
hut they will leave in a few days on a temporary visit
to Holland. Mr. Bastian is a physical, and Mr. Taylor a
clairvoyant medium. At the dark seances of the former
musical * instruments fly about, spirit hands touch the
sitters, direct spirit voices are heard, and all the pheno¬
mena common at such seances are obtained. Mr. Taylor
describes the spirits he sees.
MATEBIALISED SPIKII HANDS.
Their light seances for physical manifestations are of
special interest, because they obtain materialisations
under conditions diflering somewhat from any hitherto
observed in this country. Mr. Bastian invites one of
the observers to sit alongside him in one of the corners
of the room, and a shawl is pinned from wall to wall
across the angle, at such a level that the bodies of the
two persons are hidden from sight, but their heads and
shoulders are in, fall view. Spirits then materialise
hands and arms low down in the darkness caused by
the shawl cutting off the light, and when they are fully
formed they thrust them into view. Last Saturday we
saw hands and arms project over the top of the shawl,
and seize bells and other little objects which the sitters
had placed in front for them to lay hold of. One of
the hands looked like the hand of a lady, and had a
sleeve on resembling black silk ; the hands were palp¬
ably not those of either of the two persons in the
corner, who sat quite motionless, whilst the materialised
hands and arms occasionally came up in various direc¬
tions, sometimes behind their backs; in fact, the mani¬
festation is one which ocularly settles the question of
the temporary materialisation of living hands and arms.
The materialisation of a spirit face was expected last
Saturday, but it did not take place, the vitality of
Mr. Bastian having been too much exhausted by the
previous dark seance. One or two persons thought they
saw a face beginning to form, but the other spectators
did not.
HISTORY OP MR. HARRY BASTIAN’S MEDIITMSHIP.
“ I am thirty years of age, and was born at North Boston,
Erie County, U.S. My parents are of German origin, and my
father has been a minister of the gospel, and a member of
the Evangelical Alliance for thirty years. Mediumship is
hereditary in my family, on my father’s side; my grandfather
was a native of Lorraine, and served as a soldier under Napo¬
leon ; he had a wonderful gift of healing diseases by laying
on of hands, and cured so many people that his powers in this
respect are remembered in the locality to the present day.
My father has the same power in a lesser degree, but he never
exercises it without prayer ; he can cure complaints of a
chronic description easier than others, and frequently heals
the worst tumours and felons in about a week, by the laying on
of hands three times during that period. He also can stop
bleedings, when the sufferers are miles away, provided only that
they have faith in his power; he can do nothing with persons
in a state of mental antagonism.
“ Spiritual manifestations began in my presence when I was
about five years old, and living with my grandmother; my
bed was pulled about at night, and noises were heard; these
things were supposed to be produced by evil spirits, and my
grandmother thought that I was bewitched, and prayed that
the power of the witches might be driven away. When I was
seven years of age, my father went as a missionary to Canada,
taking me with him. There the manifestations grew stronger;
things would move about the room, and sometimes a noise
was heard like a pumpkin rolling downstairs and bumping
against the door ; when they opened the door there was
nothing there. My father concluded that the house was
haunted by evil spirits, just like John Wesley’s; he never
liked the manifestations ; he tried to exorcise the spirits,
when they would sometimes stop the manifestations for several
days.
* “ When I was twelve years of age, we returned to the old
homestead in.North Boston, in the State of New York, where
we lived on the farm until I was eighteen years old. Then
I went to Buffalo, where I met a Spiritualist of the name of
Williamsi who boarded in the same house, and was the first
to tell me anything about Spiritualism. He asked me to come
to a seance at the house of Mr. and Mrs. S. H. Wortman;
there the four of us sat round a table, and in twenty minutes
I was entranced for the first time; when I woke up they told
me that a child of Mrs. Wortman’s had controlled me and
given them messages. I made sport of what they said, and
did not believe that spirits had anything to do with the
matter, but the circumstance worked on my mind consider¬
ably. I went there again, and the result was the same.
I then sat by myself for manifestations, and raps began at
once. After a few sittings, I also saw spirits, among whom
was a sister of mine. I was boarding with my aunt, and the
family were very sceptical. One night I was telling her and
the children what I had seen at one of the seances of the Eddy
mediums, when a sharp whistle sounded over my head, and
while the startled listeners were speculating where it came
from, it sounded again, when they grew nervously excited and
came to the conclusion that the devil had seized me for his
own purposes.
“ In 1869 I was a clerk on board the passenger boat between
Buffalo and Chicago, and sometimes, in the fall of the year,
when the passengers were few, and I was alone in the cabin, I
would become conscious of the presence of spirits about me ;
once I felt as if a bouquet of fiowers had been presented me ;
I smelt their perfume most distinctly. Soon after I heard of a
medium of the name of Miss Bice, and wrote, asking her to
give me a seance on my return home. This she did, and for
the first time I saw a medium in the trance state. She did
not give me any particular test, except that she told me I
would become a professional medium and visit Europe,
which was far from my thoughts at the time; and I left
her in a rather sceptical state of mind as to the truth of
Spiritualism. Then I began reading books on the subject,
more especially those by Mr. Robert Dale Owen and Judge
Edmonds.
“During the next season I had manifestations on board
the boat, and in the course of the year 1870 first had an
opportunity of meeting generally with Spiritualists. I went
to one of their meetings at Collins’s Hemlock Hall, which
once belonged to the Quakers, but is now used for Spirit¬
ualistic purposes. From 2,000 to 3,000 persons were present,
and I was there a stranger among strangers. There I became
acquainted with Dr. Dunn, who recently visited England
with Mr. Peebles ; I there also first met Mr. and Mrs. O’Friel,
and at a seance in the evening, at the house where we were
stopping, I was entranced by their little child. A few weeks
after, at & seance, raps spelt out his name, “Margery,” and
told them how a nephew of theirs, supposed to have been
murdered, was then alive and well in California. On writing
there, they discovered this to be true. They took a great
interest in me, and, after corresponding with me for about
a year, I went to Brooklyn to live with them; and it was
at their home I became fully developed. At our first seances
a spirit who gave the name of George Fox—not the Quaker
of that name—used to entrance me; he is the same who
now speaks with the direct voice at my seances. About tbe
beginning of 1871, at their house, the spirits first commenced
playing musical instruments in my presence, and after that
the power gradually grew stronger, and that year I began to
give public seances in New York with much success, but soon
I took a dislike to mediumship, and made up my mind to give
it up ; so I went to learn photography at Syracuse, New York
State, in order to get rid of the power, and did not sit for two
months; the spirits then forced manifestations, and compelled
me to give seances again. I next went, by invitation to
Watertown, N.Y., and there met another medium, with whom
I started out travelling, doing so for six months. I then
became acquainted with Mr. Davenport, the father of the
Davenport Brothers, at the house of Mr. S. S. Jones, in
Chicago, and travelled through the Western States of America
with him, giving seances, until the September of the same
year, when I first met my present partner, Mr. Malcolm
Taylor.
“ My sensations during the production of the different mani¬
festations are very strange. Although I am perfectly con¬
scious, a peculiar numbness comes over me, and I feel as if
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Borne force were leaving me until after the seance, when I am
completely exhausted. Whatever part of the spirit is mate¬
rialised, there seems to be a something drawn from a cor¬
responding part of my system. When a spirit talks my lungs
feel oppressed, and I have to sigh or draw a long breath
occasionally.”
HISTOKY OB ME. MALCOLM TAYLOE’s MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. Taylor, the mental medium, is robust and stout
in build, light complexioned, and gives the following
story of his development:—
“ I was born in the year 1850, in Dundee, Scotland; my father
was a native of the city of Glasgow; my mother, of Edinburgh.
As with many other clairvoyant mediums, the gift of second
sight is natural to me; since birth I have possessed that
strange power of spiritual perception so common among the
Scotch people. From childhood up, I have been subject to
strange moody spells, in which I would sit alone and dream,
as it were, and often in those states I saw things at a distance
and in the future, which afterwards time and investigation
would prove to be true. In all the years of my boyhood I was
also conscious of seeiug—not in the natural way, but apparently
with other eyes, out of my forehead—large cloud-like sub¬
stances, which approximated to the form of human beings, but
so vague and indistinct where they, that I thought them freaks
of my imagination.
“ Brought up in the strictest orthodox manner, my father
being precentor of one of the established churches in Dundee,
I lived there until eleven years of age, when our family moved
to America, and my father went into business in New York
city. I was then sent to school. The power of spirit percep¬
tion continued with me for the following six years in the same
imperfect form, until my mother passed away from earth, and
I entered business life in a large commercial house in New
York, where, while at work at the desk, the faculty of discern¬
ing spirits fully developed itself, and the forms which hereto¬
fore I had seen but vaguely, became so plain and palpable,
that I could no longer doubt my seeing them, although I could
not account for my doing so.
“ One day while engaged at the books I saw some one
standing at my side, but supposing'it to be one of my fellow-
clerks, I took no notice of the person, until, chancing to look,
I beheld a female the exact resemblance of my mother.
Filled with amazement, I watched the form for a few minutes
as it glided away, when, expecting of course that others had
also seen her, I asked my companions who the lady was who
had stood by me, and received the reply that ‘ no lady had
been in the office-, and if I had seen one I must have been
asleep and dreaming.’
‘ ‘ After that, as time went on, I often saw the same, as well
as other forms in the same and at other places, and keeping
the thing secret grew quite used to it. Then a new feature of
mediumship added itself—that of a sense of hearing voices
and sounds unheard by others.
“ Thus, with my strange faculties, I lived for more than a
year as if in two worlds, the spiritual and material, until
hearing from a friend of some queer things he had witnessed
while investigating the subject of Spiritualism, I told him my
peculiar power, and went with him to a developing circle then
meeting in the city. There, to my surprise, I met others who
had the same faculty, and on describing the forms I saw, at
the request of the sitters, I found on their being recognised
that they were veritable spirits.
‘ - After that, intensely interested, I continued to attend
various circles and seances, using my gift in describing
spirits, giving wonderful tests of identity, &c., until, under¬
going development, I got so that I would be entranced and
controlled by different spirits to speak and write ; some spirits
influenced me to give private communications, and often im¬
provised passable verses of poetry.
“ Finding, after a while, it was impossible for me to give
proper attention to my duties with influences controlling me
during business hours, by the advice of my spirit guides, and
to the great displeasure of my friends in the form, I gave up
my situation, and entered the field as a professional medium.
I took rooms in New York, and gave private sittings with
splendid success for some time, until meeting Mr. Bastian we
entered into partnership, and since then have travelled as
companions and co-workers in the cause of spirit com¬
munion.”
IE0N BING- MANIFESTATIONS.
The JVew YovTc Sun (Oct., 1869) in the course of a re¬
port of a seance with Mr. Bastian and Mr. Hough, says :
Oct. 9, 1874.
There lay on the table four solid iron rings, about a quarter of
an inch thick, and in diameter respectively 2^, 5, 5|, and 6f
inches. The young men were as thoroughly tied as a com¬
mittee of gentlemen could tie them, hands and feet, and the
light having been extinguished, the three larger rings were
passed over the tied wrists and arms, one after another, and
pushed up over the elbows. The smaller ring which could not
possibly pass over the hand of the young man, was in one
minute by a process not well understood, placed upon his
wrist. - His hand measured 3| inches across. The young
man’s wrists were again tied with cotton cloth, which was also
sewed to his shirt sleeves in such a manner as to make a loop
over each wrist, beside the loop that united both hands. The
small ring was again passed over the left hand and wrist with¬
out interfering with the sewing or tying. One of two things
was absolutely required to accomplish this feat—either the
expansion of the solid ring an inch and a half, or the elonga¬
tion or reduction in size by some process of the medium’s
hand. The latter could hardly have been done, and the
spirits informed The Sun's reporter that the feat was done by
“ chemical expansion and contraction.”
ME. BASTIAN PLACED IN A CAGE DUEING.A SEANCE.
Mr. H. B. Storer, in the course of a letter to the
Banner of Light said :—
Desiring to test the claims of this gentleman that the
manifestations produced in his presence are not caused by
himself, but by spirits, a company of about twenty persons
assembled in the ante room of Eliot Hall, in this city, on
Thursday evening, July 13th, 1871. Mr. Bastian having pre¬
viously signified his willingness to submit to any reasonable
methods of testing his mediumship which might be suggested
by others, a cabinet was devised and constructed by Mr. E. S.
Wheeler, consisting of a light framework of bed-slats and
laths, two and one-half feet square and about ten feet high,
over which, forming the top and the four walls, was drawn a
mosquito netting, lapped and nailed so closely to the frame¬
work as to prevent any fingers or hands from being thrust
through. Mr. Bastian being seated in a chair, this ex¬
tinguisher of scepticism was then lifted and shut down over
him, forming an enclosure that would effectually prevent him
from handling any of the instruments which were placed upon
a table drawn closely to the right side of the cabinet. The
theory advanced by the voices which are heard at Mr.
Bastian’s seances (viz., that the spirits use the vital emana¬
tions of the medium with which to accomplish their feats,
and that these emanations decrease in force and capacity of
use inversely with the square of the distance from him) was so
far respected by the investigators as to allow the medium’s
elbow to rest, through the gauze wall, upon the edge of the
table. Two tambourines, two bells, two harmonicons, a guitar
and a tin horn were placed upon the table, the nearest
instrument being fourteen inches from the medium. The
light being extinguished, not more than two minutes elapsed
before the horn was heard to move, and the voice known as
George Fox bade “ good evening ” to the party. It was done
in a hurried manner, nothing more said, and. the horn was
heard to drop. Under the same conditions, the guitar was
thrown from the table upon the floor. The gas being lit, no
change in the position of the medium or the cabinet was
discovered by the audience ; and the certainty that the cabinet
did not move was further guaranteed by Mr. Wheeler, who
affixed to the top of the cabinet one end of a piece of tape,
the other end of which he held, while seated within four or
five feet of the cabinet, as an indicator of any movement or
jar that might occur to that frail structure by the movement
of the medium. Two pieces of tape were afterwards affixed
to the side of the cabinet next the medium, and between him
and the instruments, and held by two gentlemen, both of
whom affirm that no jar whatever of the cabinet occurred,
although several instruments were swept from the table to the
floor while they held the indicators.
APTEAEANCE OF MATEEIALISED SPIEITS.
The Portland Monitor of May 6th 1872, says :—
The company then seated themselves in front of a doorway
leading to a small room, across which was tacked a piece of
black cambric, in which was cut a hole about a foot in
diameter. Behind this sat Mr. Bastian; for it is said that
only in close proximity to the medium do materialisations
occur. A gas jet in .the adjoining parlour admitted light to
the room in which the company were seated. While a
favourite air was being sung, there appeared at the aperture
Oct. 0, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
177
in the cam brie, upon which all eyes were resting, a shadowy
mist, and then growing denser and more material, presented
the features of a human face, but barely upon being compre¬
hended, faded away. The face was not entirely recognised,
and a gentleman requested it to appear again. It did so more
positively, and was recognised as that of a deceased lady
cousin to the gentleman who requested it to reappear. A
child’s small hand loomed up, and pointed to one of the
ladies ; she asked “Who is it?” and presently a pretty little
hoy’s round, bright face appeared. The hand of a lady,
draped with a flowing lace trimmed sleeve appeared, and was
quickly drawn away. A large left hand, with a plain gold
ring on the little ti nger, was plainly seen.
TWO SPIRITS APPEA R AT THE SAME TIME AND ARE RECOONISED.
At a subsequent sitting, described in the Auburn
Advertiser, the power was stronger. Mr. Babbit writes
to that journal:—
My two daughters, Josephine and Fanny, as well as Eugene,
my son, all presented themselves, one by one,|several times, so
unmistakably as to be recognised at once by all in the circle
who were acquainted with them while living.
Two little boys manifested their presence. The first one
was recognised by its mother as her son Willie; the other
his cousin Freddy, who was also recognised by his mother.
Twice these boys presented themselves at the same time, side
by side, both being about the saine age. I have witnessed
very many spiritual manifestations, but this double presenta¬
tion most certainly exceeded by far all others that I ever
seen.
FIVE SPIRITS RECOGNISED.
Mr. E. S. Orampton, of Collins Centre, writes to the
Banner of Light, of Oct 26tb, 1872, as follows:—
Improvising a cabinet out of an adjoining bedroom, by
tacking in the doorway a piece of black cambric, with a
diamond-shaped opening cut out near the top, the medium sat
behind in the darkness, while the company, in the mellowed
light of a lamp, sat before the veil that soon revealed to view
the dear ones gone before. After a little singing, behind the
aperture there appeared what seemed a filmy cloud of haze,
which, growing denser, soon assumed the form and features of
an old lady’s face. All acquainted with her saw at once it
was my wife’s mother, Mrs. Hawkins, attired in the very
habiliments her body had but lately been buried in.
Next came that of a little boy, the brother of a young lady
present, who at once exclaimed, “ Willie ! ” in reply to which
the spirit waved his hand.
Then appeared the full round girl’s face of a cousin to the
same lady who, not recognising it at first, asked it to come a
little plainer, which it did satisfactorily.
Then was shown the beaming infant face of a son of our
neighbours, Mr. and Mrs. Pierce, who, wishing to see how
their boy had progressed, were gratified to see a manly face
with whiskers and moustache, that every one who saw it said
bore a great family resemblance.
Next came Eliza Pierce, a relative of the above-named
gentleman, whose face, familiar to all, was, without doubt,
identified.
The last face shown, that of the grandfather of a young
man present, who before had doubted the truth of immor¬
tality, came so distinctly, that he was convinced of the fact at
once, and acknowledged with overcome feelings.
Between the showing of the faces, hands of various shapes
and sizes were presented, some holding flowers ; and to con¬
clude, the guide gave us some advice and consolation in the
direct voice, and bade us good night. Every one of the .faces
came repeatedly in palpable perfection, more or less plain as
the spirit had power, and were all recognised.
CONVERSATIONS WITH MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
The Enterprise, of Michigan City, Eeb. 7th, 1873,
says:—<
Samuel Booth.—A figure appeared at the aperture, showing
a bearded face, neck, and upper portion of the chest. Dr.
Bentley, “ That is father Booth; ” and Mrs, Deming, a
daughter, spoke, “ If you are my father, put out your bony
hand.” A long, bony arm and hand was instantly thrust
through the aperture, the lips moved and the words spoken,
“ God bless you ! God bless you ! ” He was recognised by all
in the circle who had known him. After saying, “ You are
all immortal,” the figure vanished; then reappeared again
and said, “ I live in the summer land.” Dr. Bentley, who had
always been his physician, asked the question, “ Mr. Booth,
you told me, before your death, that you wished to die that
you might be at rest. How is it with you now ? ”
The figure, which had its faced turned toward the daughter,
changed position, and looking at the questioner, replied,
“ I am resting now.”
Again it vanished, reappeared, and saying, “I have no more
strength,” disappeared.
Sabah Wasson.—In the dark circle.—Mr. Taylor says,
“ Mr. Eddy, there is an old lady before you. She says her
name is Aunt Sarah ; is about ninety years of age.”
A voice is heard, “ I am ninety-five, and tell Mr. Monroe’s
folks that I was here ; ” and gave her name as Sarah Wasson.
The next evening Mr. Taylor described her again, saying,
“ The same old lady is there.” She immediately said, “ Tell
Mrs. Eddy I have met little Hetty in heaven.” Afterwards, in
light circle, appeared, was recognised, and spoke. The tones
of her voice were distinctly recognised by Dr. Church, who
had been intimately acquainted with her. Dr. Bentley also
recognised a characteristic movement of the form. She had
said, in the dark circle, “ Be sure and tell Mr. Monroe’s folks
that I was here.”
A German Face.—A face, with strongly marked German
features, appeared. Mrs. C. Kimball thought it to be her
husband’s cousin, but having some doubt, said, “If that bees
you, show your right hand,” which was instantly done, minus
the third finger. Mrs. K. exclaimed, “Mein Gott in himmel!
I’d know that hand anywhere.” She then explained, that
when fifteen years old, in Germany, the cousin had that finger
shot off. The circle that evening was composed mostly of
Germans. Mr. K.’s father, and his wife’s father also,
appeared, spoke in German, and were recognised. The con¬
versations were all in German.
William Martin.—Not recognised at first. It then spoke,
“We don’t get much game over here.”
Mr. Benham says, “If that is you, William, will you give
three raps.”
They were given.
Q.—“ Are you happy ? ”
A.—“ Yes.”
Q.—“ How do you like the new sphere you are in ? ”
A.—“ It don’t make any difference whether you like it or
not; we have to take things as they come over here.”
Q.—“ Are you round among us much, now days, Bill ? ”
A.—“ ’Casionally—’casionally. Pretty tough work, this
coming back. I ain’t used to this kind of business.”
Dr. Paige.—Was recognised by all but Mr. Bouchard, who
was not satisfied until the figure put in an appearance for the
eighth time, when the face and beard being apparently too
large, the beard was thrust outside, the face filling the aper¬
ture. In reply to questions the figure said, after bidding the
circle good evening, that his method of appearance was a
novel one, and that he was satisfied with his condition. In
-the dark circle, when described by Mr. Taylor, Mrs. Bouchard
said, “ If this is you, Dr. Paige, will you shake hands with an
old schoolmate ? ” and immediately after felt two hands clasp
her right hand.
Wm. Dawson—In dark circle.—Mr. Taylor described a
figure standing before Mr. Eddy. It came four successive
evenings before recognition ; said death ensued from drowning.
|How were you drowned? ” asked Mr. Taylor. “ I drowned
myself,” was the reply. Afternoon, showed face in light
circle ; was recognised by all, and said to Mr. Eddy: “ I am
sorry, Sam, for what I did ; but I was not myself when I did
it. It was a sorry day when I jumped in the river.” Mr. D.
was drowned at Minneapolis about a year since.
Daniel Marsh, who died on the Friday night previous, was
described in dark circle, the next evening by Mr. Taylor; said
he would come again Tuesday evening. He came, as stated,
in both circles ; was recognised by his brothers and others.
The shawl of Mrs. M.--this in dark circle—was put around
herself and husband, Mr. Taylor stating that he heard the
words, “ I let my mantle fall on you.”
There were other appearances, recognitions, and voices. An
uncle of Walter Leeds; the father of Mr. L. S. Hart—face
shown minus an eye, and so recognised ; Dr. Hale, a friend of
Mrs. Ostrander, who reminded her of a joint ride from Cohoes
to Waterford, New York, years ago; Mr. Boothroyd and
others might be instanced, but want of space and time forbid.
Of the sixteen who appeared and spoke at the aperture, the
lips were seen to move, the voices were distinct from each
other in tone, and proofs of identity varied and numerous.
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 9, 1874.
A EEMABKABLE TEST.
The following account is from the Beligio - Phi losoph ica l
Journal, March 21st, 1874. The lady mentioned in
the narrative was doubtless a medium herself, though
she did not know it:—
A popular clergyman and his wife, with two of their friends—
all of Chicago—visited the seance room, incog. During the
seance, the minister’s wife had a valuable diamond ring taken
from her finger by a spirit. She plainly felt it taken from
her finger. She felt a little anxiety about it, and so ex¬
pressed herself. She was told to have no fear for its safety,
as the spirits always returned everything of the kind. In
these seances, knives, pencils, watches, rings, &o., &o., are
often carried by the spirits from one to another, by request.
Just before the close of the seance the lady had a slip of
folded paper slipped between her lips, which she held fast
until the close of the circle, and the lighting of the gas. On
taking it from her lips, she found written on the paper in
pencil, “ You will find your ring under the pillow of your bed
on returning home.” This intelligence was revealed to no one
present but the clergyman and two friends. To them she
showed the writing.
From the astonishing manifestations they had witnessed,
although members of a popular church, they were prepared
to believe it might be all true. They knew there was no
opportunity for deception in the circle, as test conditions had
been maintained all through the seance, and no mortal could
have written and put the slip of paper between her lips.
The clergyman, not wishing to “grieve the spirit” by
misrepresenting the facts (as did the Rev. Moses Sherman, of
New Hampshire, about the cure of his wife through a spirit
medium, he saying it was a miracle of Jesus Christ), but
wishing to have abundance of evidence of the fact, if a fact it
should prove to be, gave the key of his house to his friends to
open the door and lead in advance, to see if the spirit state¬
ment should prove true. All moved in line and went to the
bed, raised the pillow, and there, to the astonishment of all of
them, lay the lost ring. We should not omit to say that the
residence of the clergyman is about three miles from the
seance room. The possibility of imposition is simply out of
question. The clergyman, his wife and friends deny any such
possibility, and yet they “ would not have their names men¬
tioned for the world.’’
SPIRITUALISM IN MARYLEBONE.
Last Monday night the quarterly meeting of the Maryle-
bone Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was held at 6,
Blandford-street, Baker-street, Portman-square, London. Mr.
Whitley was voted into the chair.
The Chairman said that a great conflict was going on be¬
tween Spiritualism and materialism ; according to the tenets
of the latter nothing existed which could not be cut, handled,
or analysed, and it was the duty and privilege of Spiritualists
to uplift their teachings against such doctrines, because they
could prove them not to be true. Spiritualism proved that
not only was there another life, but much connected with man
that could not be comprehended; it proved that they could
see, feel, touch, and talk to spirit people, who can return and
cover themselves for the time being with a material substance ;
it was therefore their bounden duty to disseminate such truths
among those who desired to receive information. The public
might say that there was no good in Spiritualism, but the
members of that society were aware that it had a strong
moral effect, and that it made them think twice before taking
any important steps in life. They should cultivate deeply
religious and very liberal feelings, and carry them out in
everyday life; for if Spiritualism did not make them better
men and women, it ought to be thrown to the cats and dogs,
for it would be of no use to them or to anybody else. They
should live in such a manner as to set an example to mankind
at large. (Applause.)
Mr. Charles Hunt, the secretary, then read the quarterly
report; it set forth that the society was a very little in debt,
instead of having a balance in hand, as on the last occasion.
As secretary, he wanted more support and sympathy; there
was less enthusiasm and energy among the members than
when the Association was first started, and they did not exert
themselves as they should do to attend the meetings.
Mr. Swinburne suggested that tbe annual subscription of
members should be doubled, to enable the Association to work
more efficiently.
Mr. White said that such a resolution could not be passed
without previous notice of it being given to all the members.
If it were passed he should resign, on principle, because some
of the members could not afford more than they paid at
present.
Mr. Swinburne said that he did not wish to turn anybody
out of the society, so in consequence of what Mr. White had
said he would withdraw his motion, though he could not see
that any principle was involved in the matter.
Mr. Hunt said that from his experience as secretary he was
against raising the subscriptions, for some of the members
could not afford the present payment. Could not some of the
richer members volunteer to pay more ?
Mr. Tilby said that would not do. It would destroy
equality.*
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
THE EYILS OF UNCHECKED MATERIALISM.
In the course of a letter to the Peterborough
Advertiser of last Saturday, Mr. John T. Markley
makes the following sensible remarks on the tendency
of the materialism of the age:—
The Philadelphia correspondent of the Times, as
many of your readers remember, called attention the
other day to the fearful increase of crimes of violence
in the United States. Our own daily law reports
painfully supplement the very serious transatlantic facts
in the matter of extraordinary crime. Especially is
this the case in our larger towns, not to mention the
notorious district where the Daily Telegraph told us
that “Brummy” and “Physic” aired their combative¬
ness after a style more impassioned than polite. In
this nineteenth century, and under the shadow of
earnest exemplary churches, men continue to drink
with recklessness; to swear with vulgarity of eloquence;
to thrash their wives with mathematical regularity;
and, in a thousand ways, defy and outrage the common
laws of humanity by an emboldened but an unjustifiable
illustration of repulsive animalism. The morning
papers invariably smell of blood. The habitual
unrighteousness of the badly organised “ criminal
classes ” finds a startling, if less intense reproduction, in
more respectable quarters, and the results speak badly
for our boasted civilisation. But in the face of such—
almost international—misfortunes I, for one, believe in
the ultimate and universal triumph of the race over the
almost unavoidable animalism of human nature. The
regenerating influences of an uncramped faith in the
deity must make men wise in time; and through the
developing process of popular education, the force of an
elevating literature, and the broad acknowledgment by
the State of the common people’s political aspirations,
this beautiful England of ours cannot possibly decay
beyond redemption. Our chief danger I think lies in
materialism—the flesh and blood religion of the age. I
am not sneering at Professor Tyndall’s fine Belfast
address. Such occasional masterpieces of scientific
oratory — despite their influential evil effect upon
the traditionary opinions of society—tend to modify
the narrow-groove enthusiasm of the grandfatherly
theologians, who only “watch and pray” when they
should carefully examine the mysteries and sectarian
speculations of the faith by which they swear. But I
maintain that the age is dangerously inclined to the
harsh negations of positivism. The savants stifle the
* Why do not Messrs. White and Tilby resign “on principle” for the
sake of those outcasts mentioned by Mr. Hunt, who cannot pay the present
subscription? Like the Conservative barber who would not shave coal-
heavers, perhaps they find they must destroy equality, and “ must draw
the line somewhere.’’—Ed.
Oct. 9, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
179
poetry of the emotions,? and thus contradict, or but
partly develope, the mind’s natural spirit-cheering
eccentricities.. Following suit, the restless money¬
making multitude catch up the intellectual, non¬
spiritual scorn of the learned doctors ; and a combina¬
tion of materialistic influences effectually damns all the
tender passions, all delicate arts, all obedience to the lan¬
guage of flowers; repudiates the agony of poor Bill Sykes,
the penitent prodigal, and mocks the soothing chime of the
vesper bells. Small wonder, then, that we almost begin
to tolerate the pretensions of the Spiritualists; those
people who, with all their faults, have at least an
impassioned faith in the immortality of the soul. This
tendency to vulgar animalism and crimes of violence
will remain unchecked whilst men overfeed, worship
half-crowns, and respect the mere physical side of
mortal being. TJltra-acquisitiveness of disposition is
fatal to the perpetuation of that healthy sentiment
which justifies imagination as an ennobling faculty of
the soul. As Tennyson says :—
“ It is the little rift within the lute
That by and bye will make the music mute,
And, ever widening, slowly silence all.”
But why introduce the Laureate, and his confreres of
the muse ? The versemen fail to touch the heart in
this age of doubt, carnality, and mutton-chops; or if
they accidentally popularise the assumptions of Apollo,
it is among their invariable charmed audience of ladies.
The masculines live, move, and have their being in a
denser atmosphere of cold-blooded feeling, if we except
the clergy of the varying faiths, who dare not question
the consoling probabilities of the law and the prophets.
But the world moves hopefully after all, and if men
are chiefly materialistic, and scepticism is set to music
by the leading philosophers of the day, excess of crime
must ere long produce a reaction of spirituality.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
DIBECT SPIRIT WRITING UNDER NEW CONDITIONS.
The Australian mail which arrived last Wednesday,
brought advices from Melbourne to August 1st. The Harbinger
of Light contains the following account of the production of
direct spirit writing at Sandhurst:—
Recently, two gentlemen, very sceptical, and not con¬
nected with any circle, proposed to seal up a slip of paper
without giving any of us any information of what was on it.
This was done accordingly, and by direction of our spirit-
guides I gave the sealed packet into the possession of the male
medium last Sunday night, at the close of the seance. The
seal could not be tampered with without those who sealed it
knowing it. This evening (Friday), one of the gentlemen who
sealed the packet attended to see it opened. Much interest
was evinced by all present, some fourteen in number, but
before the letter was opened, the gentleman and every member
of the circle, thirteen in number, carefully examined the seal,
and found it intact. A small knife was then got, the envelope out
on one side and two ends, and the slip taken out. I must now
inform you that the medium, while entranced, told us that the
paper was letter paper, that it was printed on, and also had
the initials “ T. 0. S.” written at the top of it. This proved
true to the letter. I, in the light, and in the presence of all,
opened the paper, and there sure enough was three separate
and distinct hand writings, that of George Abell being even
smaller than on the previous one. There were also several
small drawings on it. The paper was an ordinary sheet of
note paper, with two names printed on it; and the spirits
John Robinson and Alfred Longmore had written on the in¬
side page. The two gentlemen who had sealed the packet had
unknown to any one placed two hairs inside it, the one laid
lightly on the note paper, and the other beneath the seal, so
that if the note paper had been taken out or the seal broken,
the hairs unknown or unnoticed would have fallen out. Both
the hairs, however, were. found in then.' places, and the one
on the note paper was found fastened to it by a small black
speck of some adhesive matter. I need scarcely say that this
crucial test caused unbounded astonishment and gratification
to every one of us, the gentleman who sealed the packet de¬
claring openly his firm conviction that no one in the flesh had
in any way interfered with the seal or paper.
ANGEL-GUARDED.
Mother, will the angels keep me
Through the long, dark hours of night ?
Will their sweet and loving presence
Guard me till the morning light ?
If I waken, shall I see them
By the light the moonbeams shed ?
Shall I see them, loving, patient,
Watching o’er my little bed ?
Gently slumber, child of mine.
Innocent, and sweet, and fair;
Slumber softly through the night,
Angels hold thee in their care.
When my little prayer is ended,
And my evening hymn I sing,
Then I wish some bright-winged angels
Little golden harps would bring;
And, while I am lying quiet,
Thinking of my mother dear.
In the dark and lonely midnight
Sweetest music I should hear.
Gently slumber, child of mine,
Innocent, and sweet, and fair;
Slumber softly through the night,
Angels have thee in their care.
Mother, when the night is over,
And the day begins to dawn,
When the gloomy tints of sunrise
Hail another welcome morn,—
Mother, will the angels linger,
Just to see how fair and bright
Is the early morning sunshine
After all the lonely night ?
Heaven is brighter, child of mine,
Brighter than the sunrise light;
But the holy angels guard thee—
Ever guard thee, day and night.
From “ Common-Sense ” (San Francisco).
(STorresponHence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRIT DRAWINGS.
Sir,—I have purchased a number of the first series of
” Drawings descriptive of spirit life and progress, by a child of
twelve years of age,” issued by Dr. Gully; and I am so deeply
interested in these, that I long to see the rest of them, for
there are 248 in all. I have shown them to all our visitors,
Spiritualist or otherwise, and every one has expressed surprise
and interest, therefore I think that these drawings are calcu¬
lated to bring Spiritualism before the uninitiated in a very
pleasing form; and I earnestly hope that they may be
extensively purchased, in order to induce Dr. Gully to continue
the issue of the whole of the series. He says in the introduc¬
tion, “ After giving the spirit’s history in its passage hence, the
subjects run upon the highest and holiest conditions of the
spirit, both in, and when freed from the body, its conditions of
love, faith and charity, the mode of influence from above to
those on earth, the communion of spirits among themselves,
&o., all with a wondrous meaning, wondrously illustrated by a
child twelve years old. Should the present issue find favour
with, and interest the public, much more curious subjects, and
deeper meaning emblems will follow in future numbers.”
_ Brixton Rise, Oct. 3rd, 1874. E. D. Ponder.
Sir,—I have been greatly interested in the curious drawings
produced through the agency of a little girl twelve years of
age. Can you inform me if the second series of drawings is
published, or likely to be ? Dr. Gully tells us there are 248 of
these drawings in all, and it would indeed be a great pity if
the work should be discontinued, as all the friends who have
seen them express great surprise and interest at the method
of their production, as well as at the drawings themselves.
I feel we are greatly indebted to Dr. Gully for bringing them
before the public in the able manner he has done.
11, Hayter-road, S.W., Oct. 1st, 1874. H. K. R.
180
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 9, 1874.
A NICE SPIRIT.
Sir,—I have just read Mr. W. Hewitt’s letter in the Spiritual
Magazine. If that letter is written in a Christian spirit,
defend me from such spirit; and from that kind of Chris¬
tianity, good Lord deliver us! Amen 1 Hope.
Brixton, October 2nd, 1874.
Sir,—It is surely something to the credit of the National
Association to have been the means of harmonising two such
discordant elements as Mr. Burns and Mr. Howitt, and of
healing the breach which has existed between those two
champions of Spiritualism for so many years ; for there can
be no doubt that Mr. Burns has forgiven Mr. Howitt, inas¬
much as he has quoted him at full length in The Medium of
the 13th Feb. last, and extolled him as a true “ prophetnor
can there be any doubt either that the Association has been
the means of bringing about this most holy alliance.
Yet, as it is just possible that Mr. Burns may forget to
quote, or refer to, Mr. Howitt’s last effusion in favour of the
Association, I venture to call the attention of his readers,
through your columns (as those of the Medium are closed
against me) to the article in the October number of the
Spiritual Magazine, in which it is difficult to say whether
most to admire the Christian temper and charity, the strict
adherence to facts, or the cogency of the reasoning of the
venerable author.
I hope, however, to be allowed to make a few comments on
it in the next number of the Spiritual Magazine.
Algernon Jot.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W.,
Oct. 5, 1874.
[These two letters refer to an article by Mr. 'William Howitt, in which
he speaks of the members of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists as follows:—‘’They have no right to give their fellow Spiiitualists
by implication, that is, by assuming the national name and style, the dis¬
graceful appellation of heathens and infidels. ‘ Their primary and funda¬
mental object ’ said one of their speakers, ‘ is to form a bond of union
between all Spiritualists of every shade of opinion.’ I, for one, declare
that I will have nothing to do with any such a Noah’s Ark. There can be no
real bond of union betwixt good and evil, wisdom and folly, between clean
and unclean—it is not in nature. Let Spiritualists of every shade go their
own ways. However they may try at it, there can be no permanent union
betwixt such incongruous elements. I myself have but one way, and that
is the way of truth, righteousness, and sound sense, as they are taught in
Jesus Christ. I am a man, and because I am a man, I am not obliged to
share the opinions, or the deeds, or the absurdities of men of all shades of
opinion. With the murderer, the adulterer, the swindler, the blasphemer,
or the drunkard, I have nothing to do.” It is not necessary to make any
comment on language such as this. We print the foregoing letters only
because information has reached Mr. Joy, who, as Honorary Secretary,
is the official representative of the National Association, that the editor of
the Spiritual Magazine will not allow him to make any reply in the next
number of that journal, although Mr. Joy primarily, and all the other
persons abused secondarily, have the moral right of prompt reply therein.
We decline to print any more letters on this inharmonious subject in this
journal; the persons attacked have the right of reply in the periodical
which has thought fit to print such language. We long for more peace
and good-will, and object to this subject being transferred from another
journal into these pages.—Ed.]
“Figaro’’ on Spiritualism.—“If human testimony,”
says the Figaro, “ counts for much, these people have got
hold of certain truths which, based upon phenomena so far
supernatural as that they transcend all natural laws with
which as yet we are acquainted, are not likely to yield. In¬
deed, if anything can be proven by weight of testimony, we
must concede them to have made out their case; and in
making this concession we need not count too much upon the
qualifying fact that the existence of ghosts has in its sup¬
port an equally heavy balance of evidence, for it has yet to be
shown that there are no ghosts—whatever these may be
pleased to be. But the truth is, that human testimony, of
whatever cumulative weight, can prove nothing; we count it
proof in default of better evidence, but it convinces no one
but him who offers it and him in accordance with whose
mental bias it is offered. But if only one part in a thousand
is true of what is asserted by men whose word could
put a rope about the neck of a fellow-man in any court of
England, the Spiritualists have ascertained a fact beside which
all other facts are idle lumber—have demonstrated what all
the religious and philosophical systems of the world have
only surmised—namely, that the dead live. For our part, we
do not believe they have made any such momentous dis¬
covery; but ^they do, and one in every ten of them has better
qualified himself to give an opinion in the matter than one in
every ten thousand of those who believe as we do. Anyhow,
he who discusses without examination should have the grace
to deliver judgment without malice.”’
Dr. "William Hitchman is doing much good to the
cause of Spiritualism at Liverpool, by working actively with
the Psychological Society there.
Mr. Thomas Gales Foster, an experienced American
Spiritualist, and one of the best lecturers on the subject, will
shortly visit England in company with Mrs. Foster.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, who wrote the account of the
Eddy manifestations published by us a fortnight ago,is a well-
known New York journalist.
Messrs. Bastian and Tavlor had engaged berths
to sail with Mr. Morse to the United States, but have since
resolved to stay in England a little longer.
Materialisation Manieestations.—Mr. Epes Sargent
is publishing a series of articles in the Banner of Light, sum¬
marising the chief materialisation phenomena which have
been observed in this country and in America, and the
Pioneer of Progress has begun to reprint the articles in
England. They are exceedingly interesting, but rather dis¬
jointed, and interspersed with philosophical comments which
had- better have been postponed until the close, when the
author would have more fully grasped the general bearing of
the facts. Nevertheless, in newspaper literature it is not
always easy to work out a subject in the same way as when
writing a book. Mr. Sargent’s valuable work will be fully
appreciated by readers on both sides of the Atlantic.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Editor of Common-Sense, San Francisco.—We have been sending
you The Spiritualist for some months past; do you get it?
Letters which reach us not later than Monday stand a better
chance than those which arrive later, of insertion in the follow¬
ing Friday’s paper.
Several friends have kindly sent us items of provincial news,
some of them containing long strings of laudatory remarks about
individuals. Such remarks are of no interest to the public, and
ought to be objectionable to the persons praised.
A.—The title of your last communication was interesting, and
perhaps by giving the necessary time the remainder could be
puzzled out as usual, and re-written for the compositors who
refuse to set type from your illegible MS. It is not possible to
get the leisure to do this.
Etonne.—Your letter consists entirely of a string of laudatory
remarks, and is anonymous: of what value, then, would its pub¬
lication be to the cause of Spiritualism or to the cause of science ?
Why not give some definite information, and authenticate the
same ?
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 26 Viet., cap. 89.)
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, hut payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbfss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir’ John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
William Berry, Esq., John Brown, Esq., Courtenay Clarke, Esq., Arthur
lago, Esq., Lord Frederick H. Kerr, M. E. Marsden, Esq,, R. B. Martin,
Esq., M.A., F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq.,
Major J. 0. Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert, Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
oa
aw
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
Paymt
within
TwoYrs
‘ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
£
1000
500
250
100
£ s. d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
“ A.” Death only.
1000
600
110
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
‘B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
2 0
3 0
12 6 12 6
0 12 6 0 12 6
AGENT—MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E«
Oct. 9, 1874,
The seibittjalist.
hi
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANT®, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Q-uinea. Address, 21, Princes-
Street, Hanover- square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CUR AT I YE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
kR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Beigrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. w7 Flint,
JO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
Information about the society may be obtained from the Officers of the
Association by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee Rooms,
30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
jc?1 Ann REWARD.—MASEdSLYNE & COOKE.
an EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
SSSS 49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c , &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-vilias, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holdei’s-hiil, Hendon. N.W.
Filz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M.,'M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rcss-Church, Mrs. (FloretceMarryat), 21, Colville-rd.,Kensingston-pk., W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hili, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown. James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice. D.D., 44, Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex. N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, - Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., Waterloo Hotel, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-sti eet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Daly ell-road, Stockwefi, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-vilia, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, PaU Mall,
S.W., and. 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-stieet, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, NOtting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughtcn, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pe&th.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia,
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Yrawwm’.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. (Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa)
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 9^ ,1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also,
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law ; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingfr am
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or'
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.'’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly, every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, andfromthis time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by-the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE I PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.O.
In the Pricting Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritutl Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application. '   
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS » LIBRARY,
Which contains a large col’ection of Spiritual and other Progres
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,’’
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all informa'ion concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOYERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
X SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of|the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematieal discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
chools.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London,
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weaknees and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force ?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm-
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerre Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Nervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure op Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Fores—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of "the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity' of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Remarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
aboye-Bar and St. George _the Martyr, London, and published by E. .W
AlLen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C. '
