A RECORD OF THE P.ROQF(E££ OF THE (SCIENCE AND ETHIC? Of ?PIF(ITUAEI?M.
[REGHSTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 41.—(Vol. m.-No. 2.) LONDON: DEC. 1, 1872.
Published on the 1st and 15th oi every
Month; Price Fourpence.
Contents.
Proselytising ... .*. .iv ...  T.. ...   18
Spirit Poetry ... ...  ■ ...   18
The “ Vision” at Lourdes ’    20
St. John’s Association.of Spiritualists        ... 20
Spiritualism in Dalston   ...  ;. 21
Law IntelligenceEx parte Louisa Lowe v. the Commissioners of
Lunacy.—Criminal Information      22
The Anthropological Institute:—The Alleged Moabite Jars; Human
remains from Iceland    21
Private Seances-.—Mr. R. Barber’s seances at Manchester; seances at
Moravia, United States; seance wi'h Miss Kate Pox; Mr. Henry
Cook's seances; seance at Mr. Guppy’s; seance at Mrs. Kislingbury.’s- 26
Poetry.—A Guardian Angel      29
CorrespondenceSpiritual Experiences of Sir T. Moore’s Family; Test
Conditions      ...   ... 30
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E, Seances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of membersi Prospectuses and Rules on application. to-the
Secretary. Subscription 8s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM.—Mrs. JennieHolmes will give a Special SEANCE
at the Booms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E., on Friday evening next, 6th
December, 1872. Tickets: Members,, 2s. 6d.; Visitors, 5s. each. Number
limited to twenty-five.—Thomas Blyton, Secretary.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.'W.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
A Gasfitter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of-
work in the above branches.
Now ready, Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, THE STORM KING, and
other Poems. By Frederick Griffin. Written by Planchette.
London: Triibner and Co.^8 and 60, Paternoster-row.
A LADY desires Board and Residence in a Private
Family. Terms, £50 a year inclusive. Or she would' be willing to
teach Music, Singing, French, or English, in part payment. Address X. Y. Z.,
1, Pembroke Villas, Augustus Road, Hammersmith.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOTOGRAPHS.-
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
EPPS’S COCOA. — The Cicil Service Gazette
remarks—“ By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws' which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cOcoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.” ' '
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Ob., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
British imperial insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Incorporated -pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shares of £1, Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHES TER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man*
cher-ter.
William GimberGoodliFfe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminster,
London.
Charles OppenHeim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Go.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57$, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent. .
The-system of Insurance carried out by the “British Imperial”.
(originally devised by Dr. Fan;, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications, by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
I Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon Enghsh'Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cbver the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British national insurance corporation^
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Offices.-BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER.
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums. -
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials. -
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-sbins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Estabhshed 1847. Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
18
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 1, 1872.
CHARG-E FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
OORRKSPONDBNCB.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the Unite.d Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Ann delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spintualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local neiosvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then.le ordered of him by post, direct.
PROSELYTISING.
Not long since, we heard Mr. Nasmyth, the inventor
of the steam-hammer, tell a Committee of the House
of Commons that he believed the secret of true success
in life to be to so manage your business that people
shall be knocking at your door, insisting upon having
your goods, instead of making articles which it is
necessary to force upon the attention of purchasers.
In like manner are there two ways of proselytising.
The one method will induce people to demand admis¬
sion into the movement; the other forces Spiritualism
upon the attention of the public, whether they like it
or not. The former method we have always advocated,
and believe it to be decidedly the best. The latter is the
common or missionary method. By an endless amount
of preaching and talking, many proselytes are made
who add more to the magnitude of the movement than
to its strength. The former method, we think, would
not only make more proselytes, and of better quality,
but the older followers of Spiritualism would derive
benefits from* the system as well as the novices.
The plan recommended is simply this, and has already
been mooted in these pages Let a Spiritual Institu¬
tion be founded, and a building erected, in which not only
shall all the ethics of Spiritualism be taught, but popular
scientific information about the structure, nature, and
preservation of the human body be given, and informa¬
tion for home use be disseminated, about pure air, pure
water, pure food, and the saving of household labour
by various contrivances. The influence of the mind
over the body might also be scientifically studied, and
the axiom enforced that sanitary laws are not under¬
stood till society is made happier, since worldly cares
and mental trouble shorten the average duration of
human life as much as bad drainage. We ought to
build up a reputation, and gain for Spiritual public
utterances the character of their being the best, the
most intelligent, and the most useful, of any to which
the public can listen. Then will the movement be
strengthened within, faster than it spreads without.
We have plenty of men inside the movement, high in
the ranks of literature and science, able and willing to
do good work' for Spiritualism, were there but some
organisation in which they and Spiritualists had con¬
fidence,* to clear the ground for them, and present them
with a platform on which they could act.
Could not some of the old and trusted workers in the
movement, like those who had to do with Spiritual
conferences in years gone by, join together, and hold a
preliminary meeting to consider whether a National
Institution of British Spiritualists cannot be formed?
They might also consider on what principle it should
be formed, and what its work should be. Messrs.
Yarley, Wallace, Coleman, Daw, Leighton, Blackburn,
Everett, Theobald, Pearce, Luxmoore, Hall, Tebb,
Jones, Guppy, Taylor, Wason, and others, might, if
they would join together, form a committee in which
Spiritualists would have "confidence, and which would,
be strongly supported in any line of action. To give
the association a national standing, a low annual pay¬
ment should constitute membership, and the programme
of the society should be a very wide one, say,—“ To
watch over the interests of Spiritualism in the United
Kingdom, and to take such action as may best effect
that object.”
With moderate subscriptions in hand, some lectures
and good conferences might be inaugurated this winter.
By means of occasional special subscriptions and soirees,
a building fund might be created, and after it had
grown to its full proportions, we might have an edifice
in London worthy of the movement. The committee
of management would see that funds were well applied,
and yielded a proportionate return in the shape of good
done to the movement. Moderate funds wisely used
by a good committee of management will do more good
for Spiritualism than larger sums erratically contributed
to different objects.
SPIRIT POETRY.
An interesting book entitled Flashes of Light from the
Spirit Land, consisting of spirit messages given through
the trknce-mediumship of Mrs. J. H. Conant, at her
well-known public seances in Boston, U.S., has just
been published by Messrs. White and Co., 158, Wash-
ington-street, Boston. Mrs. Conant is uneducated,
which adds considerably to the interest of the poems
which we now quote. The said poems were taken
down in shorthand as the words fell from her lips, and
they are published with other poems and a large number
of prose spirit messages in the book just mentioned.
The first lines we quote were uttered as a short
prayer, just before the beginning of one of her public
seances:—
Holy angels, guide these mortals
O’er the mystic waves of time ;
Open wide the shining portals
Leading unto heights sublime ;
Lift, 0 lift, the veil that hides them
From their loved ones, gone before !
Show them but their shining faces
Waiting on the other shore.
The following short prayer was uttered at the begin¬
ning of another seance :
0 Thou, whose love prevaileth
Over all the ills of life,
Whose mercy never faileth
When we weary of the strife
Which comes of human weakness,—
By some called human sin,—
Whose wisdom opens heaven’s gates,
That all may enter in ;
We, would sing thee glad hosannas,
We would join the earth and air
In their everlasting chorus,
And their one eternal prayer.
For all that life can give us,
For all that hath been given, %
For every tear of sorrow,
And every hope of heaven,
We thank Thee, 0, our God.
The next invocation we quote was given at Christ¬
mas-time :—
Deo. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
19
0 God, our God !
Faint and weary are thy children,
Toiling up the steep of time,
Seeking for the Eastern token,
Listening for the morning chime ;
Waiting, waiting, ever waiting
For the voice of long ago,
With its soft, melodious accents,
Soothing every human woe.
Know they not the star has risen,
And its glory gilds the earth ?
Hear they not the song of angels
O’er this glorious second birth ?
“ Peace on earth ! good will from Heaven !”
Sing that white-robed angel band ;
“ Peace on earth ! good will from Heaven !”
Echoes over all the land.
0 Thou God of past and present !
0 Thou light of every soul !
We will chant Thee deathless praises
While eternity shall roll.
At one of Mrs. Conant’s seances the following poem
was uttered, and reference is made in it to an Indian
war custom of giving some of their maidens the right
to choose between death at the hands of their nearest
kin, or the risk of being captured and enslaved by the
conquering tribe. An Indian spirit said that the poem
bore reference to Winona, the daughter of the sachem
Wanandago, who was driven by the white man from
his hunting-grounds, extending over the territory on
which the city of Boston now stands. “ It was then
the Great Spirit spoke to Winona, and the arrow of
Wanandago sent her to the land of sunshine and clear
water, where Metoka, the fair squaw of Wanandago
awaited the coming of Winona ” :—
In the sunlight, in the starlight,
In the moons of long ago —
Ere the virgin soil of Shawmut
Quivered ’neath the white man’s plow ;
Ere the great lakes and the rivers
Listened to the white man’s song;
Ere the Father of all Waters
Bore them in his strong arms on ;
On from distant lands and wigwams,
Where the sun from slumber comes,
Where the warriors hear the warwhoop
In the voices of the drums;
Lived Winona—child of Nature!
First-born, beauteous, dark-browed maid,
At whose coming fair Metoka,
Where the flowers bloom, was laid.
Grew Winona, strong and beauteous,
Fairer than the flowers of spring ;
And the echo of her sweet voice
Made the hills and valleys ring.
Did the red deer pass her wigwam,
Soon it quivered on the plain—
For the arrow of Winona
Never left its bow in vain !
Sixteen times the snow had fallen,
Sixteen times the sun grew dim,
Since the warriors and the maidens
Sung Metoka’s funeral hymn.
Then the strange voice of the white man
Bang through all our hunting grounds ;
And their swift feet never faltered
When they neared our sacred mounds !
All our game their long guns hunted,
Quickly making it their own ;
Heeding not the maiden’s sighing,
Fearing not the warrior’s frown!
Then the voice of Wanandago
Fell in accents soft and low,
Asking, would the fair Winona
To the land of sunlight go ?
Quick the answer came, like shadows
Filling all his soul with might—
“I will go, 0 mighty sachem,
Where the sky is always bright;
“ Where our hunting-grounds are greater ;
Where the water’s always clear;
Where the spirits of our fathers
Chant the red man’s hymn of cheer!”
Soon the warriors and the maidens
Sung again their funeral song !
For the spirit of Winona
To the land of light was borne !
But to-night she Gomes'to greet you,
Comes in meekness, comes in love;
And with gentle hands would lead you
To that land of light above ;
Where no white man robs the Indian ;
Where no more the sun grows dim ;
Where the warriors and the maidens
Chant no more their funeral hymn ;
In that land where stars are brighter,
Where the moonbeams softly fall,
And the great Manito’s blessing
Like the sunlight’s over all;
There the Indian holds his council,
And his thoughts grow great and strong—
As the angels teach forgiveness
For the white man’s fearful wrong.
Here his tomahawk and arrows
Rest beneath your wigwams grand ;
There his soul drinks in the wisdom
Of the glorious spirit-land.
Fare you well, ye pale-faced mortals,
Till in council you shall stand
Face to face with fair Winona
In the Indian’s Morning-Land.
A young lady, named Anna Cora Wilson, well known
to American Spiritualists, has several time since her
death, or rather her entrance to spirit life, communi¬
cated through different trance mediums, and given very
beautiful poems through their lips. The best was
given to her father through the lips of Miss Lizzie
Doten, and was published in an early number of The
Spiritualist. The following verses were given by her
through the lips of Mrs. Con ant:—-
Hushed were the voices and muffled the tread
Of kind friends who lingered near “ Birdie’s ” death-bed;
But they saw not the angels who entered unheard,
And dipped in heaven’s chalice the wings of their bird.
And they whispered so soft that you heard not a sound—
“ Come, Birdie, your wings shall no longer be bound !”
Then, quick as the eagle’s eye drinks in the light,
Your Birdie was free from mortality’s night.
And now from the height of Eternity’s plains,
From the land where Death comes not, and night never
reigns,
Your Birdie returns, on swift pinions of love,
With fresh-gathered buds from her bright home above.
When the world, in its coldness, says, “ Birdie is dead,”
0 tell them, dear mother, I’ve only been led,
By the hands of the angels, away from the night,
Away from earth’s darkness, to heaven’s clear light.
Preconceived Opinions :—The following is an extract
from the opening address of the President at the recent
meeting at Brighton of the British Association for the Ad¬
vancement of Science :—“ There are not a few persons abroad
in the world who resist the teachings of educated common
sense, whenever these run counter to their own preconcep¬
tions ; and who may be regarded as in so far affected with what
I once heard Mr. Carlyle pithily describe as a ‘ diluted in¬
sanity.’ ” May we charitably hope that this dictum, emanat¬
ing from so high an authority, accounts for the utterances
about Spiritualism of Dr. W. B. Carpenter in St. George’s
Hall and at Chelsea ?
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE “ VISION | AT LOURDES.
On Tuesday night, Monsignor Capel delivered a lecture at
Hanover-square Rooms, under the auspices of the Young
Men’s Catholic Association, on the subject of “ Shrines, with
special reference to Lourdes.” Having devoted the opening
part of his discourse to an explanation of the connection
between locality and religious and national fervour, he in¬
formed his listeners that in November, 1859, he went to live
at Pau, which is not far from Lourdes, and resided there
seven years. He came into contact with many who had wit¬
nessed the first miracle at Lourdes, and with several who had
been cured. He did not claim one bit more of observation
than anyone else, but he was obliged to assert what he saw
and what he knew, and also what his own conviction was
respecting the vision at Lourdes.- He had had the happiness
of being born a Catholic, but he had had the unhappiness of
being brought up in a Protestant atmosphere. Attached to
and loving his country as he did, and ready to do all he could
for it, spiritually and temporally, he was compelled to say
that there was in it a kind of northern air, strongly marked
by fogs of a spiritual kind, and strongly bitten by frost that
came early and betimes. (Applause.) He, therefore, left this
country under the impression that there was a little cuuning
amongst the priests, and he was rather prone to imagine that
they were up to “ a thing or two.” (Laughter.) He was
brought into contact with' the cur£ of the parish, and also
with the bishop of the diocese, who actually begged of him
to use his scepticism in inquiring into the vision at Lourdes,
and the miracles that were associated with it. Without urging
any pretentious claims, he thought that, in speaking on this
matter, he was as much entitled to be heard as the corre¬
spondent of a Conservative newspaper, who took his ticket at
Charing-cross to go on a pilgrimage to Lourdes, and who,
having made a rapid survey, and written a rapid article, came
back to London, and said that the occurrence at Lourdes was
a lie and a religious imposture. (Applause.) When he went
to Lourdes his impressions were entirely opposed to the truth
of the story ; but he had taken the trouble to see the girl and
examine her over and over again ; and therefore he thought
that, without laying himself open to the charge of egotism,
he might say that what he had to state should be beard with
a certain amount of deference. We were not bound to accept
a specific miracle as a true one, but we were bound to accept
as a universal principle that the power of miracles had been
left to the Church of God. (Applause.) If we were to accept
evidence at all, assuredly we must do so when it was the
result of the careful examination of scientific men, and when
it took the shape of honest and careful asseveration on the
part of disinterested witnesses. In cases of poisoning we
accepted the evidence of the doctor who analysed the con¬
tents of the stomach, and we hanged the man upon clear proof
being given of his authorship of the deed ; and therefore,
why, in the name of common sense, should we not believe the
testimony of a man who said, “Yesterday I was blind, to-day
-1 am cured, and no human agency could have cured me.”
(Applause.) During his stay in Lourdes in 1859, he made it
a point to make himself acquainted with everything connected
with the vision which bad been seen in the previous year.
He was one of a party of five, and they all made up their
minds to make inquiries at the convent. On going there the
Superioress at their request brought forward the girl who had
seen the vision. She had what was called a fish-hook on her
head,—in other words, a handkerchief with a tail stuck up,—
and in appearance she seemed puny and childlike. He was
struck by the modesty and quietness of the child, and on
questioning her he received her story. She went with her
sister and a companion, on the 11th of February, to the side
of the neighbouring brook for the purpose of gathering wood.
The sister and the companion crossed it, but as the child was
delicate and of tender frame, they induced her to remain
where she was. When they were gone she observed a figure
surrounded with light, and presently she saw a lady in white
with a blue girdle round her waist. The lady spoke to her in
French, and said, “ Conception Immaculee.” He closely cross-
examined her about the exact expression used, and asked if
the lady did not use the words, “ la mere,” in what she said,
but the girl said, “ No,” and in his attempt to catch her trip¬
ping he was entirely nonplussed. Thousands of visitors to
Lourdes had questioned the girl, but she had never deviated
from her original statement. When in one of her ecstacies
the local doctor examined her, and found by the regularity of
her pulse that she was neither suffering from catalepsy nor
from excitement, and having inquired into the matter as an
unbeliever, he candidly confessed that he believed that she
Dec. 1, 1872.
fixed her vision upon something which was unseen by other
people. A commission—composed of bishops, canons, chemists,
doctors, and men chosen simply because they were infidels—
was appointed, and thirty miracles, wrought through the
water of the grotto in which the vision appeared, were sub¬
mitted to them. Of the thirty, six were rejected, because
they might be explained by natural causes; nine were re¬
jected on account of insufficiency of evidence ; and with
regard to the other fifteen, the only explanation which the
scientific men could give was that science had not sufficiently
advanced to show that this particular water could cure blind¬
ness. (Laughter and applause.) The right reverend lecturer
then mentioned the case of a lady who had lost the use of her
limbs, and whom he saw come out of the water at Lourdes
perfectly cured. In conclusion, he Said that God permitted
these things to be a manifestation of our faith, and to show
that the dawn of the Middle Ages was lighted by the same
faith which illumined the nineteenth century, with all its
science.—Daily Telegraph, November 2\st, 1872.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Thursday evening, Nov. 14th, at a meeting of the St.
John’s Association of Spiritualists, at the St. John’s Tem¬
perance Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell, the subject an¬
nounced for discussion was, “ Do our individual experiences
warrant a belief in Spiritualism ? ”
Mr. R. Barber said that his experiences began when he
formed a spirit circle in his own house, and discovered that
the spirits of dead people could move tables and other solid
objects ; on that eventful evening he discovered that the mus¬
cular force of the sitters had nothing to do with the move¬
ments, and that some of the messages, at least, were not
influenced by the ideas of the members of the circle. He
found that Faraday was wrong in attempting to explain the
phenomena as due to unconscious muscular action, or to the
action of one mind upon another. The first messages he
received were opposed to the ideas of all the members of the
circle, yet they afterwards proved to be true. He considered
spiritual communion to be no longer a belief, but a fact, and
fact was better than belief. Spiritual communion was good
for man, because it proved a life after death. For twenty years
he had been what was called an infidel, because he found
many things in the Scriptures which his reason told him were
not good, were contrary to purity of life, and contrary to the
welfare of mankind; at the same time he revered and loved
the things which Jesus taught. He saw that those who pro¬
fessed to believe in Him, committed acts which Jesus taught
them not to do. Jesus Himself had condemned most of His
followers of modern times, when He said, that not everyone
who cried “ Lord, Lord,” should enter into everlasting bliss,
but those who fed His children when they were hungry, and
clothed them when they were naked; thus the teachings of
Jesus were contrary to the practice of the great majority of
Christian teachers, and most of His professed followers. Jesus
taught pure Spiritualism. If Spiritualism did no more than
to prove the immortality of the soul, it was a great blessing to
mankind, but it did more; it proved that as a tree fell, so did
it lie; and that the teachings of Jesus were true when He
said that not everybody who called Him “ Lord, Lord,” should
receive rewards hereafter. Spiritualism would not destroy
existing institutions, but it had a strong tendency to break
down the barriers now separating the different classes of
society ; it taught, as Jesus taught, that there was one God—a
Great Spirit—so great that men could not comprehend the
least of His attributes ; but a God infinite in love, and power,
and wisdom, who had made of one blood all the nations of
men. Jesus taught this, and that all men were brethren,
whereas most of the present teachers who professed to be sent
by Him, preached that there were three great divisions among
men, the upper, lower, and middle classes. In consequence of
such teachings, misery, wretchedness, poverty, and crime
pervade the land to a remarkable extent. As thinking men,
his hearers knew full well, that more ought to be done to
prevent rather than to punish crime. Spiritualism taught
men to show kindness to each other, and to those who
differed from them in opinion. The greatest teachers of
Christianity taught that the chief duty of man was to see to
the welfare of his own soul; he maintained that men ought to
study the welfare of the bodies and souls of their fellow
creatures. Whatever a man’s personal state, how could he be
happy with so much suffering and sadness outside his home ?
He believed that God intended every living thing to be happy.
Let them examine all creation, from the tifiiest insect revealed
Dec. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
by the microscope,'to the glorious orbs in the heaven above,
and the beauty and design everywhere displayed, showed that
everything was intended to be happy. Spiritualism proved
that heaven was not a place of eternal rest, but a place of
eternal activity. To return to the subject of practical expe¬
riences in Spiritualism, he would read two letters just received
from his son, about spiritual manifestations witnessed in his
son’s own house at Manchester.
Mr. Barber then read the letters, extracts from which we
publish in another column, under the heading of “ Private
Seances."
Mr. J. Young, in the course of some remarks, said that he
had been a great traveller, and once he saw a man buried in
Johanna Island, one of the Commorro group, between Mada¬
gascar and the main land of Africa. Since then the spirit of
that man had communicated with him through a medium,
and gave his name. Being sceptical, he asked, “ What gar¬
ments were you buried in ? ” The reply was, “ In nature’s
garments; ” and so it was, for if it had been otherwise, the
natives v would have dug up the body for the sake of the
clothing.
Much more was said at the meeting, but most of the
speakers wandered away from the subject of discussion, and
spoke of politics, theology, and things in general, the
Chairman being absent, and no other appointed.
' SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
Last Tuesday week Mrs. Bassett, of Thornham-
grove, Stratford, kindly gave a seance to some of the
members of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, at their Rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dals¬
ton, London. We have received the following very
interesting description of the manifestations, from a
gentleman who attended for the purpose of investiga¬
tion :—
To the Editor of The Spiritualist.
Sir,—I should be glad if you would allow me a little of your
space in which to describe a seance held on the evening of
Tuesday, the 19th instant, at the house of the Dalston Society,
at which I was permitted to be present, on the invitation of
their obliging secretary, Mr. Blyton.
Being a member of the much-abused profession of the law,
I have not been in the habit of accepting as evidence the
description of testimony generally considered as satisfactory
by persons less'suspicious, or, if you like the word, better, less
circumspect.
In my inquiries into what is termed “ Spiritualism,” I have
endeavoured to the best of my ability to ascertain whether
the alleged phenomena were produced by artificial or fraudu¬
lent means. I am not prepared to say that, in certain cases,
attempts have not been made by professional mediums to
supplement manifestations by manual dexterity, but of this I
am persuaded, that in the case of unprofessional (i.e., unpaid)
mediums, I have never been able to trace anything approach¬
ing to deceit or collusion ; while, on the other hand, I have
seen them freely submit to conditions under which fraud or
deception would be alike impossible.
The medium on the evening of the 20th inst. was Mrs.
Bassett, a good-looking, vivacious, and debonair person.
She appeared to be known to the majority of the fifteen or
twenty persons assembled on the occasion. She was accom¬
panied by her husband, a most respectable working man, who
sat at the opposite side of the room, and who could not, by
any possibility have helped his wife to deceive, even had he
been so disposed.
The only persons present of whom I had any knowledge
were Mr. Cook, of Hackney, and his daughter Florence, in
the uprightness and integrity of whom I have the most perfect
reliance. The seance was held in a front parlour, but as the
room was too small to admit all present, as well as a large
dining-table, the folding-doors were left open, and the embers
of a small fire enabled those in the front room to distinguish
the forms of the persons in the back. The doors of both
rooms were, I understand, locked. On the lamp being extin¬
guished, one gentleman was asked (by raps) to remove from
the vicinity of the medium, which he did. He was, I am
informed, a person liable to be entranced. Almost imme¬
diately afterwards I felt a cold current pass over my hands,
and I fancied I detected a luminous vapour to my right. I
sat, I should say, but one remove from the medium, whose
hands were held by Mr, Wilks, the president of the Associa¬
tion. A rough and not very articulate voice was then heard,
as if in the air immediately above the head of the medium. I
was told by a lady who sat on my left that this was James
Lombard, and she exclaimed—“Well, James, how are you ?”
To which he replied that he was very well, and very glad to
meet us all again. James being quite a surprise to me, I
ventured to engage the unseen visitor in conversation, and
we had some lively chat upon a variety of subjects, having
reference especially to his own state and the conditions under
which he was enabled to communicate with us. The voice
by degrees became more intelligible, and the enunciation more
clear and life-like. Judging from the tone and the phraseology
employed by James, he was evidently an unlettered “spirit,’’
of a sanguine and jovial disposition, grateful at having escaped
from terrestrial bondage, and animated with a strongs desire
to reach a ‘‘higher sphere. ” Some of his explanations were
in perfect accord with the doctrines and theories of Spiritual¬
ists, and he owned that he could not communicate with
mortals save through the'agency of a medium. He added,
that he extracted his faculty of communication from the
medium, and he expressed himself in affectionate terms
towards her. He described the manner of his death, explain¬
ing that at the moment of dissolution he passed into darkness,
but that eventually light began to dawn upon him, and that
he was caught by a friendly hand, and welcomed with
assuring words.
All this to me was very curious, and to the mind of a
sceptic could only have been reconcilable with the possession
by the medium of accomplished ventriloquial powers.
Shortly afterwards we were addressed by another voice,
which the lady on my left told me was known as that of the
“ Preacher.” It seemed to come from the floor, nearer to me
than the medium, and was quite different to that of James.
No questions were put to the Preacher, but he delivered a
brief discourse, in genuine pulpit fashion, the object of which
was to show that the Supreme Being when appearing on earth
came in a lowly and unostentatious manner, and that when
He desired to communicate with the Israelites He spoke, not
direct, but through the mediumship of Moses. He also told
us that there were other “ spirits” present, and notably one
of a lady, who were endeavouring to do something. While
the Preacher was speaking, we observed lights in various
parts of the rooms. They were not the balls or globes of
luminous phosphorescent light, similar to those I have wit¬
nessed in the presence of Miss Kate Fox, but small bright
stars of an opal colour; these_flitted about the room, and
were, I believe, seen by every one present.
I do not pretend to offer any solution of those phenomena ;
but I consider them sufficiently startling to call for calm arid
dispassionate inquiry on the part of those who have the neces¬
sary time and capacity for their elucidation. That the phe¬
nomena exist has, I believe, been accepted as fact by persons
incapable of imposture. If it be, indeed, true that the sen¬
tient part of man can after death communicate in any way,
with those whom it has left behind, surely the subject is one
on which educated inquiry might be brought to bear, without
exposing the students to ridicule or allegations of unworthy
motives. There is now a cloud of evidence in favour of the
existence of some intelligent agency beyond the ordinary ken
of mortals. It behoves those who have seen it and heard it,
not to shrink from the duty of endeavouring to trace to their
source effects which, I am free to admit, are opposed to all
our preconceived ideas of theology and science, but which, on
that account, ought neither to be sneered down nor laughed
down.
In an age of astonishing mental knd physical progress, he
is a bold man who, without inquiry and without reflection,
undertakes to deny facts merely because they are opposed to
his own prejudices and convictions.
Five-and-twenty years ago, the man who would have
asserted that in two minutes he could ascertain, while sitting
at his desk in London, what was the price of gold in Wall-
street, New York, would have been regarded as a lunatic,
and, if possessed of property, would probably have been locked
up, under the advice of Dr. Forbes Winslow.
It does not, I apprehend, by any means follow that be¬
lievers in the absolute hona jides of Spiritual manifestations
are victims of delusion, because other people who won’t
inquire for themselves pronounce them offhand to be so.
Fray pardon the length to which this communication is
drawn, and believe me to be,—Yours very truly,
Henry M. Dunp^y,
3, Hssejc-court, Temple, 22nd Nov., 1872,
22
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 1, 1872.
We have also received the following official account
of the same seance:—
Mr. and Mrs. Bassett favoured our association by giving the
members a special seance at tbe rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, on Tuesday evening, the 19th November, 1872. The
weather was exceedingly wet and unfavourable, but, notwith¬
standing, there was an attendance of twenty members and six
friends, including Mr. and Mrs. Bassett. At eight o’clock a
circle, consisting of eight ladies and nine gentlemen, was
formed around a large oblong mahogany dining-table, while
those who were unable to obtain seats at the table sat in the
back room behind those sitting at one end of the table. Mrs.
Bassett sat at one corner of the table in the front room, and
Mr. Bassett was placed on the opposite side at the other end.
The seance was opened by the president, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
reading a portion of Scripture, which was followed by all pre¬
sent joining in singing “ The Biver.” During the reading
clear and distinct raps were heard, which were like slight con¬
cussions, and were particularly noticed under the hands of
one of the circle. Through these raps a member was directed
to remove his seat away from the medium, because his
mediumship conflicted with that of Mrs. Bassett’s. The lamps
and fire were then extinguished, and the rooms thus rendered
perfectly dark. The voice of the spirit “James Lombard”
requested his hearers to make themselves comfortable, and
wished all present “ Good evening.’’ To numerous questions
put by various members he gave very sensible replies. He
also described how the “voice” was made; how “material
objects were brought through material substances how the
“raps” were madd; he also explained the difficulty spirits
had to contend with in reckoning periods of time, and the
inability, as well as indifference, of many spirits to communi¬
cate with those on earth at all. He spoke of the labour, or
work, the spirits had to do in collecting the power wherewith
to give the manifestations; and, on request, recounted his
experience of passing away from earth, and subsequent pro¬
gress from a lower to a higher state in the spirit world. After
some spirited singing by the members and friends, a second
spirit, known as “ The Preacher,” introduced himself, and
gave a short address on the “ incredulity of sceptics, and the
objections frequently raised by them as to the alleged common¬
place character of these manifestations.” The spirit pointed
out how the media of old, as recorded in the Scriptures,
received revelation in similar manner to those -of the present
time. He especially referred to the entry of Jesus, the Media¬
tor, into Jerusalem, on an ass, instead of with the pomp and
power considered essential by many of the Jews; he spoke,
also, of Moses being taken up into the mountain without
mortal witnesses, instead of the Lord appearing and commu¬
nicating in the presence of the masses of the people. He
ventured to consider that the class of sceptics to which he
referred would not be convinced, even if this world were turned
inside out, and upside down, and then carried away. “ James
Lombard” again returned, and, remarking that the power was
nearly used up, wished all “ Good night.” The lamps were
relit, and many expressions of gratification at the result of the
seance were expressed. A vote of thanks to Mr. and Mrs.
Bassett for their kindness in attending on such an inclement
evening was proposed, seconded, and carried with acclamation.
During the seance bright phosphorescent lights were visible in
various parts of the room ; and, while all hands of the circle
(including those of the medium) were held, several sitters were
repeatedly and tenderly touched on the head, face, and hands,
by the spirits. There is little doubt that the wonderful success
of this seance was due, in no little measure, to the marked
degree of harmony which prevailed throughout, and those
present will not easily forget .the pleasure afforded them.
Thomas Blyton, Secretary and Treasurer.
The Globe newspaper of yesterday week contained an
abusive description of one of Mrs. Holmes’s seances. By the
reporter’s own account he misbehaved himself so much as to
cause several interruptions in the seance ; people disqualified
for investigation think it a very clever thing to go to a seance
for the first time, and to break all the conditions under which
the phenomena occur. Such conduct is just as reasonable and
gentlemanly as to go and witness some new experiments by
Professor Tyndall, and begin the “ investigation ” into their
value by smashing all the professor’s glasses, and turning on
all the stopcocks of his apparatus which chance to be within
reach. Mrs. Holmes is a professional physical medium, and
we have been informed has been annoyed and had the mani¬
festations stopped on several occasions by low-class visitors.
2Uto Jntdlipna.
COURT OF QUEEN'S BENCH, Nov. 22.
(Sittings in Banco, before the Loed Chief Justice, and
Justices Blackbuen and Melloe.)
EX PAETE LOUISA LOWE V. THE COMMISSIONEES OF LUNACY.—
CEIMINAL INFOEMATION.
Mr. H. D. Jencken (with whom was Mr. J. Ignatius Williams),
moved on.behalf of Mrs. Louisa Lowe, late of Upottery Vica¬
rage, Devon, but now residing at Bedford-place, Russell-
square, for a rule calling on the five gentlemen who hold the
office of Lunacy Commissioners, to show cause why a criminal
information should not issue against them, on the grounds set
forth in Mrs. Lowe’s affidavit. The lady on whose behalf he
applied was the wife of the Rev. Geo. Lowe, vicar of Upottery,
and she entertained opinions which were held by some of those
who were known as Spiritualists. Shortly stated, the grounds
on which the criminal information was asked for, was that the
Commissioners refused to release Mrs. Lowe from a lunatic
asylum, and j on the contrary, kept her incarcerated because of
what might be termed her religious opinions.
The Lord Chief Justice—Was that all ? Religious opinions,
however extravagant they might be, are no ground for im¬
prisoning those who hold them as lunatics.
Mr. Jencken would show, from the affidavit of Mrs. Lowe,
that such was the reason of the detention of which he com¬
plained. He contended that theological belief, however
grotesque, was no ground of insanity.
Mr. Justice Blackburn—True; no one would think that
religious belief, however absurd, should be taken as proof of
insanity; but it is an element with others which ought to be,,
or might well be, considered in coming to a conclusion whether
that particular person is or is not insane.
Mr. Jencken said that what was complained of was that a
great wrong had been done solely on the ground of spiritual
belief.
The Lord Chief Justice—A mistake in judgment is no
ground for a criminal information.
Mr. Jencken—There is more than a mistake in judgment
here—there was gross neglect.
The Lord Chief Justice—You must show that the Com¬
missioners kept this lady in unlawful imprisonment on the
ground of her insanity, well knowing that she was not insane.
What evidence was there that they had done so? If it could
be shown that the Commissioners acted maliciously, and that
against their better knowledge they detained her in custody,
the Court would doubtless interfere.
Mr. Jencken submitted that the Commissioners ought to have
instituted full inquiry, and that gross negligence would be evi¬
dence of malice;
The Lord Chief Justice—Let us hear the facts.
Mr. Jencken said the facts were set forth in a very long
affidavit made by Mrs. Lowe, the principal portions of which
he would refer to. She stated that in September, 1870, she
was incarcerated in the asylum for lunatics called Brislington
House, near Bristol, on an order for the reception of female
patients, signed by her husband, and on certificates of Dr.
Shapter, and of Mr. Kempe, surgeon, both of Exeter. She
was married to the Rev. George Lowe in September, 1842, and
had several children, of whom six are now livihg. For many
years she lived with her husband, but owing to grave dissen¬
sions she was at different times compelled to leave home,
almost invariably accompanied by some of her children, with
whose care and education she was entrusted by her husband.
In September, 1870, she had serious differences with him, and
went to reside at Exeter, where he visited her, and apologised
for his conduct, and requested her to return, which she declined
to do. She then set forth the visit of the doctor and surgeon,
and her removal to the asylum. On the 1st of October, 1870,
she wrote to Dr. Fox, the proprietor of the establishment, a
letter, in which she said, “ Until it shall please God to raise
me up a deliverer, I hope obediently and quietly to follow the
rules of your house. . . . The pacing about under a seiVant’s
orders is, of course, a great trial to me, but would be more
endurable if, in the intervals, I might sit in my own room and
seek peace and strength where alone they are to be found, in com¬
munion with my own heart and my God. As to spirit writing,
no amount of suffering shall ever make me deny m/ convic¬
tions that God is at this time visiting His people, and if
He wishes to promulgate truths through a weak, imperfect
woman, who shall gainsay Him ? but this is certainly not the
place for intellectual excitement of any kind, and I last night
Dec. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
23
burned every scrap here, and do not intend again cultivating
the gift of mediumship while I am in your house.” She stated
in her affidavit that while staying at the asylum her sufferings
were greatly intensified by the fact that she was constantly
placed in contact with incurable maniacs, one of whom. re¬
peatedly threatened to take her life. In November she was
removed to an outlying villa called Heath House, and in
February to Dr. Hy. Maudsley’s Asylum, Lawn House, Han well.
In January, 1871, the',asylum was visited by the Gloucestershire
magistrates and visiting physician, Dr. Budd, by whom she was
informed that she might expect speedy liberation. Mr. Lutridge
visited her in the following March, and asked her but one
question, and that in reference to Spiritualism—“ Do you still
believe your hand was guided ? ” and she replied, “ I do.” “ He
then said he should prefer leaving the question to colleagues
better acquainted with metaphysics than himself; and to this
remark I replied that it was cruel and monstrous I should be
incarcerated on account of my metaphysical or religious
opinions, and that no account should be taken of the perfect
and uninterrupted propriety of my conduct through the six
months of my incarceration; and I asked whether it would
not be possible for me to have a jury; to which he replied, ‘ It
is possible, but very undesirable. We always advise ladies
under these circumstances to keep quiet.’ ” (Laughter.) On
several occasions subsequently she wrote to the Commissioners
complaining of her detention, and requesting inquiry by a jury
or otherwise, but without effect. In a letter dated May, 1872,
she said that early. in January, on occasion of her sister
desiring her removal to Hanwell, Dr. Fox said he would not
certify her insane for that purpose ; and the magistrates again
saw her at that period, and professed themselves satisfied that
she was fit for immediate discharge. She added, “ Dr. Mauds-
ley told my family there was no just cause for detention.
I entreat that I may be allowed a jury, should you still shrink
from setting me free. The income I bring my husband of
£1,000 to £1,200 a year, entitles me, I conceive, to the ex¬
pense.” She represented to Dr. Maudsley the impropriety of
detaining her, as the commissioners must have known that she
was not insane ; to which he replied, “ Oh, do you think they
would let out a firebrand like yourself?” (Laughter.) In the
following June she was again visited by two of the commis¬
sioners, Messrs. Wilkes and Lutridge. Mi\ Wilkes asked her
whether all Spiritualists acted as she had done ; to which she
replied, “ I believe so, for it is generally admitted that all
mediums are deceived and do foolish things at first at the bid¬
ding of passive writing.” Mr. Wilkes said, “ If the writing
told you, would you separate from Mr. Lowe ?” She replied,
“I certainly would not on that ground.” . . . “ I told him they
must, in judging my Spiritualism, bear in mind I had all
my life been called a religious person, and considered ap¬
proach to God the main end of life.” Mr. Lutridge said,
“ Yes, believe the Bible and all that sort of thing,” or words to
that effect, and they then retired. In a letter to the Commis¬
sioners, dated the 18th of June, 1871, she stated she had seen
Mr. Lowe, who cast the whole responsibility of her detention
on the Commissioners, without whose sanction Dr. Maudsley
could not act. She added, “ I am utterly at a loss to know
why you condemn me. All you have been told of my ante¬
cedents is either utterly false or grossly exaggerated. The
attempted suicide, on which you lay so much stress, occurred,
in the first place, sixteen years ago, and was, moreover, merely
the carrying out of principles I was known to hold, and which
I openly advocated, viz., that under certain circumstances
suicide was right. I have changed my mind on this head
within the last two years, but, at any rate, it seems strange
that I should be imprisoned now for things done many years
ago. As to my belief that some unknown motive force is occa¬
sionally brought to bear on material objects, by intelligence or
intelligences extraneous to men, I share it- with thousands in
all countries. Certainly, an indiscriminate compliance with
all commands so given would be insanity, but I deny having
ever complied with any that were not wise or perfectly trivial.
I think I told you that some months ago, finding my sister ap¬
prehensive on this subject, I pledged myself to her not to act on
so-called spirit writing for a considerable time after my libera¬
tion, without her knowledge and approval.” She again re¬
quested an opportunity of proving to the world the triviality
of the grounds on which she was incarcerated, and the perfect
rationality of her conduct and conversation from first to last.
Several other letters were written by her to the Commissioners,
to some of which no reply was made. In September, 1871,
two of the Commissioners, Messrs. Forster and Cleaton, “ in¬
terviewed ” her in private. She then handed to them “ a
bundle of papers containing dialogues with passive writing,”
which she had written while incarcerated at the Lawn. On
the same day she wrote to the Commissioners a letter, in
which she said, “ As you have my medium writings for inspec¬
tion, I think it fair to express unequivocally my conviction
that no so-called spirit writings have any weight or value
any more than human communications. You will observe
my addresses are to the great Father of All, and may therefore
gather I consider the replies as certainly divine. I emphati¬
cally deny that I ever but once acted on medium communica¬
tions to the possible detriment of any one, and that I most
bitterly regretted at the time. Granting the reality of medium
writing, I see not how I am responsible for what is written.”
On the 2nd of October she again wrote: “ You did on Thurs¬
day last pronounce me mad on account of inconsistency of
mind in thinking Mr. Lowe, though naturally a good and
noble character, by my own admission, to be now detaining me
in a madhouse for his own ends. Will you, in the presence
of my solicitor, interrogate two eminent practitioners as to
whether they did not so advise me in 1868 and 1870 as to
account for the apparent inconsistency of my views ? On the
3rd of June Mr. Wilkes condemned me because all Spiritualists
are mad, de facto, irrespective of their conduct in life, and
now I am indefinitely re-consigned to this hideous doom, this
lingering death in life, this moral torture of incarceration, on
pretexts that would not become a child. As to Spiritualism,
I have once again expressed to you the extreme moderation
of my views, and put on record months ago that the only
authority of medium writing lies in its agreement with con¬
science, thus putting it exactly on a par with human counsel.”
The Lord Chief Justice : Up to this moment we do not see
a shadow of ground for supposing that the Commissioners did
not fairly and honestly exercise their judgment. They may
have been mistaken. As to that we are not called upon to
form an opinion. But 'where is there a shadow of proof of
any intentional misconduct ?
Mr. Jencken : If the Commissioners so negligently—
The Lord Chief Justice: We cannot grant a criminal in¬
formation on that ground. There are other forms of redress
for negligence.
Mr. Justice Mellor: I understand that she is now released
from the asylum.
Mr. Jencken said she was. She had first to sign a paper
undertaking to reside for three months at a specified place,
and under the control of a keeper. It was not until the last
day of March in this year that she was finally liberated from
the keeper’s control.
After some further argument,
The Court refused the rule.
Some notices of books are kept over for want of space.
One of the gentlemen mentioned in our article on
“Proselytising,” informs us that there is no difficulty in
raising the money for the suggested conferences, but there is
a difficulty in securing a succession of good papers to be read
at the meetings. If each gentleman we named would
guarantee one paper, the objection would be removed. Short
papers are always better than long ones, because they leave
plenty of time for discussion.
Presentiments and Apparitions.—On Monday, the
18th instant, a coroner’s inquest was held hear Wolver¬
hampton, on the body of a collier named Samuel Tinley, who
had been killed in a pit there by a fall of rock strata. It
transpired that during the previous night he awoke, saying he
had a ton of rock on his head, though he had no headache.
He was convinced it boded ill, and was reluctant to go to
work. Upon being urged to go by his wife, he went to his
child, and saying, “ Let me have my last kiss,” afterwards
went to the pit and was killed. It was further shown, that a
cousin of his, an intimate friend, was returning home from
working a night shift, when he said he saw the deceased
standing before him in the road. Instead of going home to
bed he went to the deceased’s house, to which place the news
of the death had been brought, but this was altogether
unknown to the cousin. These circumstances appear to be
singular in the estimation of persons residing in the neigh¬
bourhood where they occurred,- but' however extraordinary,
they are not by any means novel. At Calstoek, in Cornwall
(one of the mining villages on the Tamar), an apparition was
seen under very similar circumstances. A young man fell
down a pit and was killed. Before the news reached the
village, his apparition was seen on the high road close to his
cottage by more than one witness who can vouch for
the fact.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 1, 1872.
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
THE ALLEGED MOABITE JABS.
At the last meeting of the Anthropological Institute, held
on Tuesday evening, November 19th, Sir John Lubbock, Bart.,
M.P., F.R.S., presided, and there was a large attendance of
members and their friends.
The Rev. Dunbar I. Heath, M.A., read a paper on the
Moabite jars recently bought by the Germans from Mr.
Shapira, of Jerusalem, the authenticity of which had been
denied by the best authorities of the British Museum. The
author said that when the Crusaders invaded Palestine, they
destroyed everything Jewish they could lay their hands upon,
but as the Moabites living beyond the river Jordan were very
warlike, and ugly people to deal with, the Crusaders fortu¬
nately never got to “ the other side of Jordan,” consequently
that district now teems with relics of antiquity of great
interest and value. The country has a teeming population,
and the American Government has resolved to find the neces¬
sary money to explore it, the result of which, he believed,
would be the finding of tons of such remains as the Moabite
jars. Mr. Yaux objected to the jars on evidence contained in
the jars themselves, but all the objections seemed to him (Mr.
Heath) to be in favour of their authenticity. Mr. Vaux said
that the letters were not right, but that was his (Mr. Heath’s)
fault, because he was a bad writer, and had not taken much
pains to copy their exact shape. He considered it to be the
. finest Phoenician inscription in the world,* for the letters had
been moulded in clay, and burnt in upon the jars, so were
very perfect. Nine or ten of the letters were the same as those
' upon the Moabite stone. The letter M was more variable in
Phoenician than any of the others, and the letter M was very
variable on these jars, which he believed to belong to the date
of about 960 b.c. . Mr. Yaux made another objection, that the
commonest letters did not appear on the jars, which contained
only sixteen letters in all; but it was on record that the
Greeks only derived sixteen of their letters from the Phoeni¬
cian, and the rest from other sources. L was one of the com¬
monest letters in the Phoenician, El being also the name of
the Deity. Moab formed the highway between the mighty
countries of Egypt and Assyria, so he had the right to assume
that it was partly Egyptianised in consequence of its geogra¬
phical position ; there was no L in the Egyptian language, and
he assumed that the alleged modern manufacturer of the jars
would not be likely to know this. His theory was that the
geographical position of Moab accounted for the peculiarities
of the inscription upon the jars, and it was a very good theory.
Mr. Vaux argued that one of the letters upon the jars seemed
to belong to a period a thousand years later than the rest; but
if the assumed forger knew this later alphabet also, he must
have been an extraordinarily clever man; again, if the letter
was only a little like the later one, the argument fell to the
ground. The author then produced some drawings, which
had never been published, of some curious forms found upon
a doorway in Moab, and he pointed out that some similar
forms were upon the jars, although the supposed modern
manufacturer of the jars could never have seen the drawings.
Again, the jars must have been expensive things to make for
the purpose of deception; they could hardly have been made
for less than £50 apiece. The Moabite stone was of enormous
value, for it proved that the Moabites were Hebrews. In tran¬
slating the inscription upon the jars, he had certain advantages
in consequence of his being an Egyptologist. Most people
knew Moab from the saying, “ Moab is my washpot,” and
“ washpot ” was the very word which he had written as “ jar ”
in the following translation of the inscription on the first
jar:—“Inscription on his jar dedicated by Jai, servant of
Isaac in Mesha, such as is raised in devotion to Nataracu.
This is a devotion to Dov, wife of Domiodu, the same who, in
the might of her knowledge, has been incorporated with
Mesho. She is united with Hachuasho in Mesha, raised to
unity with Daocush. May he be gracious.” In conclusion,
Mr. Heath said that the scepticism with which these jars had
be en received in Europe, had caused much indignation among
the Europeans residing in Jerusalem ; it tended to take away
their spirit, and to prevent them from sending more. He
thought that the jars were all right, and he hoped that the
Anthropological Institute would “ back the right horse.”
The President said that as he had not made any personal
inquiry into the very interesting subject, he could hardly
* The English alphabet is derived from the Phoenician, and the celebrated
Moabite stone hears the oldest inscription in the letters of that alphabet
which has yet been found in the world, Hence all ancient Phganieian
inscriptions are specially interesting.
express an opinion either the one way or the other ; however,
he hoped that our countrymen in Jerusalem would secure
other specimens, which might remove present doubts, and
throw light upon the nature of the specimens already received.
Mr. W. R. Cooper said that Mr. Heath’s paper reminded
him of some of the ancient editions of the classics, in which
the commentaries were very voluminous, but did not illustrate
the text. He said that in the eighteenth century Pope Gangauelli
tried to find Etruscan and Phallic antiquities in Rome, but none
were to be had until he offered rewards, and then jars, very
much like those under notice, poured in from all quarters.
He (Mr. Cooper) had some pseudo-antiquities manufactured in
Rome, which were, very much like those described in Mr.
Heath’s paper. Pottery of that .kind was very common in
Egypt, and he thought that Mr. Heath had over-estimated
the cost of its manufacture. He doubted whether Mr. Heath
had rightly fixed the date of the introduction of bi-sexual
worship into Palestine ; he thought it was introduced 800 or
400 years before Christ, and died out about 490 a.d. He
thought that the Institute had not sufficient evidence before it
on which to found opinions as to the age or the genuineness
of the jars, and he hoped that another time not only drawings,
but impressions of the inscriptions would be produced.
Mr. E. Charlesworjih, F.G.S., said that he was not able to
express any opinion as to the truthfulness of Mr. Heath’s
views, but he thought that there was too great a tendency in
these days to receive startling discoveries with scepticism.
Not long ago the public were greatly divided in opinion as to
whether a certain traveller had achieved the great results he
said he had, but afterwards his startling story was universally
accepted as accurate. One of the most learned scholars in
Europe was the author of the paper which had been read
before them that night; he had had nothing to do with the
unearthing of the discovery; he had simply examined the
evidence, and given in his report. All that the Institute could
do was to wait for further evidence; but he should like to
know whether Mr. Vaux had more evidence about the jars than
was possessed by Mr. Heath.
Mr. Park Harrison said that ten of the letters which ap¬
peared often on the Moabite stone were not on the jars.
The Rev. Dunbar Heath made a few remarks in reply. He
said that his argument was that the geographical position of
Moab accounted for the grammatical peculiarities on the jars.
Mr. Cooper said that originally only two or threffbf the jars
were found, and nobody would buy them at first. Afterwards
a gentleman bought them, and a hundred were discovered
within a week.
- HUMAN BEMA1NS EEOM ICELAND.
Mr. E. W. Brabook, F.S.A., then read the following paper
by Captain R. F. Burton on “ Some Human Remains from
Iceland ”:—
Atheneeum Club, Pall Mall, London.
September 16,1872.
“ I have the pleasure to forward, for the inspection of the
Anthropological Institute, a small collection of human remains
and other articles from Iceland.
“ The site of the | find ’ will readily be found upon the four
sheet map of Gunnlangsson and Oken. Cast the eye eastward
of the great southern stream ‘ Markarfljot,’ mock or forest
flood, whose eastern delta-arm debouches nearly opposite to
Vestmannaryjur, Islands of the Westmen,—that is to say, of
Irishmen. You will see on the left (east) of the stream the
little valley of Thorsmbrk, the groves of Thor, a good sturdy
old god, whose name still lives and thrives in Iceland. He was
even preferred to Odin f Huin Almattki Asr,’ ‘ that almighty
Asr,’ by the people of Snowland, and in more modern days he
was invoked when a doughty deed was about to be done ; the
deities of Christianity being preferred only when the more
feminine qualities of mildness and mercy were to be displayed.
“ The valley in question is described by the ‘ Oxonian in
Iceland ’ as a ‘ beautiful green-wooded spot,’ near which the
Markarfljot flows. About eight miles long, with precipitous
sides, its site is bisected by a narrow but tolerably deep
‘ boulder-river,’ a bugbear, by-the-bye, of Icelandic travel, and
this- must be repeatedly forded. The map shows a green patch;
the shrubs may average six feet, whilst one monster, a moun¬
tain ash, attains the abnormal altitude of thirty to thirty-six
feet. It is one of the tallest, if not the tallest in the island;
the two J giant trees ’ of Akreyri, which every traveller is in
duty bound to admire, do not exceed twenty-five feet.
“ Reaching, on July 16, 1872, Thingwalla (Dingwall or
Thingwall), after a cockney tour to Hekla and the Geysers, I
met a young Englishman who was returning from a sketching
expedition round the now rarely visited south coast. From
Dec. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
25
Hekla I might easily have made Thorsmork in a day, but the
dep6t of bones was then unknown to me. Mr. W—-— had
travelled from the Eyvindarholt farm, west south-west of . the
site of the find, in some six hours of fast work, and complained
much of the load. Here are only two guides, and the half-
dozen influents of the Markarfljot were judged dangerous. It
is only fair, however, to state that he had read the ‘ Oxonian
in Iceland,’ and he was prepared to ford the terrible torrents,
nearly three feet deep ! in boots and ‘_buff.’ After passing the
sites of many fine farms, now destroyed by the ever-increasing
ice, he entered the valley from Eyvindarholt by a rugged en¬
trance, leaving the bone-heap about half way, and to the right
of his track. The remains lie under a cliff, where much rocky
matter, possibly moraine, has fallen; above it is the ice-foot
projected by the-great glaciers and neves> Merk-Jokull and
Goxaland’s Jokull, which rise to the north-east and south¬
east of it, whilst the rest of the valley, whose eternal winter
has not overwhelmed the woods, is the usual Icelandic green,
vivid and metallic.
“ The heaps evidently consist of—■
1 The bones of men
In some forgotten battle slain,
Bleached by the drifting wind and rain.’
Social traditions assign them to the troublous times of
‘ Burnt Njal,’ made known to England by that ripe - Scandi¬
navian scholar, Mr. G. W. Dasent. This must be expected in
these parts of Iceland ; several of the remains, however, are
described as those of infants.
“From Bjarni Finnbogusson, who, as a ‘youth of great
energy and pluck,’ had accompanied Mr. Shepherd, of North¬
western Peninsula fame, and who, developed to a prodigious
rascal, had undertaken Mr. W., I took the cranial fragments
marked A and B. Arrived at Reykjavik, he agreed for
2? dollars (say £3) to ride back and bring me as many skulls
as could be found or dug up. After attempting in vain—he
had taken earnest money—to throw me over in favour of
another party of travellers, he set out on Saturday, July 20th,
He was not to return till the next Friday evening, but, wish¬
ing to secure other victims, he came back on Thursday, too
soon for any good results. Moreover, he charged me for
doing nothing 32 dollars, instead of 27 dollars, which extor¬
tionate demand was satisfied rather than run the risk of men
saying that an Englishman had shirked payment. I have the
pleasure, despite sundry certificates obtained from various
innocents—his dupes—to give him the very worst of charac¬
ters, and strongly to warn future travellers in Iceland against
him. The guides at Reykjavik are not worse than the gener¬
ality of their craft, pace Mr. Baring-Gould; some are better;
but Mister Bjarni—he is generally called by his English em¬
ployers Blarney and Barney—is a bad lot, who knows well how
to pelare la quaglia senza farla gridare.
“ The following are the principal items herewith for¬
warded :—
3 fragments of thighbones;
1 large bone, three smaller ;
1 parcel of sundries ;
1 broken spindle (?) steatite (?).
“ The bones, of which there is an interesting collection in the
young museum of Reykjavik, are interesting. The old world
Icelanders, as Uno von Troil informs us, ever held it a
‘ noble art to understand well how to sharpen the instru¬
ments of death.’ I add a pair of Iceland shoes, the * Rere-
lins’ of our Scoto-Scandinavian islands; as they readily
explain why the people are not mountaineers. Also a speci¬
men of the normal pack-saddle with pegs of reindeer horn,
and the very appropriate | hamdohs,’ peat slabs, the
menyantJies trifoliata being always preferred. It will warn
travellers what to expect, and tourists will select their‘im¬
pedimenta’ accordingly. Richard F. Burton.”
Dr. C. Carter Blake read a short paper on the same remains;.
he said that they consisted of the remains of man, oxen, hogs,
and the horse. He said that the human remains setmed to
accord with those of the Norwegians; he was unable to detect
Esquimaux, Irish, Lappish, or Russian affinities. The horse
was larger than the present Icelandic horses. He stated that
the late Dr. Hunt had travelled in Iceland, and sent home much
information about the skulls and skeletons of both the earlier
and later inhabitants of the island.
Dr. King said that very little information had been collected
as yet about the skulls of the circum-polar tribes, or about
their stature. He thought there was evidence that these tribes
were tall, but others thought them to be short.
Dr. John Rae said that he had measured many of the Esqui¬
maux at different parts of the coast, and they were certainly
short in stature, especially the women; the average stature of
the men was 5 ft. 4 in. or 5 ft. 5 in. Two or three men he met at
the Coppermine river were tall, but he thought that they had
Indian blood in them ; they differed in appearance from the
Esquimaux he had seen all over the coast.
Mr. Eirikr Magnusson, an Icelandic gentleman, said that
there was no Esquimaux blood in the people of Iceland. When
Iceland was discovered by the Norwegians, there were a few
people in it, who had come from England about a hundred years
before. Iceland was first discovered in the year 874. There
was no record of any Esquimaux being found there, and he
thought it to be quite certain that there had been no Esqui¬
maux settlement in the country at all. He had been disap¬
pointed by Captain Burton’s paper, for he expected to have
learnt much more, from it. He thought the remains on the
table to be very modern; they may have belonged to the
eleventh century, which would detract from their interest,
except to philosophers, and he was not a philosopher at all.
Dr. Carter Blake, in reply, said that the remains upon the
table bore little resemblance to the Esquimaux. Whether the
Esquimaux of Greenland were one common race with the other
Esquimaux was a question which must be left to philologists
to determine. At present there were not sufficient grounds on
which to found any great generalisation as to the stature of
the Esquimaux, but the skeletons in the Royal College of
Surgeons of the men and women of that country were small
and dwarfish. He did not know whether the skeletons were
fair specimens. They were very much like the skeletons from
the Kurile Islands, to the north of Japan. They were not un¬
like those of the Tierradel Fuegians, but the latter he believed
to be merely a stunted South American race. He was disap¬
pointed with Mr. Magnusson’s remarks, and thought that
Iceland was supposed to have been discovered between‘the
years 860 and 866 ; it was well to be exact. There was nothing
in the microscopical examination of the bones tending to prove
them to be of great antiquity. They contained an enormous
proportion of gluten ; there was animal matter in them to the
extent of thirty-two per cent. The equine remains indicated
a horse of larger size than the Icelandic horse of the present
day ; how much bearing that point might have on the antiquity
of the human remains found with them, he could not say.
Mr. Magnusson said that he thought that the first horses
imported Into Iceland were larger than the Icelandic horses of
the present day.
The proceedings then closed.
The Hon. R,. Dale Owen is now writing another book
upon Spiritualism.
Mr. J. J. Moese, trance-medium, is now lecturing to large
audiences in the north of England.
Thebe is every probability that a Spiritual Society will
be formed in Brixton before Christmas.
Next Tuesday, Mrs. Bassett, the well-known non-pro¬
fessional medium, leaves London for Dublin, where she will
give some private seances. She will probably return to Lon¬
don in a fortnight, via North or South Wales.
The Ileligio-Philosophical Journal of November 16th,
published in Chicago, contains an interesting article on
English Spiritualism, written by Mr. E. J. Witheford. The
same paper always contains plenty of interesting information
about Spiritualism in America.
A genuine spirit photograph has been obtained at
Llanelly, through the mediumship of Messrs. Herne and
Williams. Unlike the spurious doubly-exposed pictures to
which we once called attention, the background does not show
in front of the sitters, and the marks of two pictures over¬
lapping each other are absent. Mr. Slater’s genuine .picture,
taken with one exposure, has no such marks, which also have
not been found on any published pictures taken by photo-
graphei's in whose characters Spiritualists have confidence.
Lieut. R. A. Salmond, of the Royal Artillery, Woolwich,
has sent us a letter about a spirit photograph he recently had
'taken at Holloway, and the balance of evidence is rather in
favour of its being one of the genuine ones produced there.
Mr. Pycock and Mr. H. E. Russell obtained clear likenesses
there of deceased persons unknown to the photographer. As
many spurious spirit photographs have been manufactured on
the same premises, bringing-disgrace upon the whole thing,
we have no desire to give further time or space to the matter
till some guarantee against jugglery is given. We think there
is evidence that the photographer himself is the real per¬
son through whose mediumship the genuine pictures weve
obtained,
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 1, 1872.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
[Reported by permission.)
ME. E. EAEBEE’S SEASTCES AX MANCHESTEB.
On Thursday, Nov. 14th., at a public meeting of the
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists, held at St. John’s
Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell, London, Mr. R.
Barber, of 30, Parkfield-street, Islington, said that he
had just had a letter, dated Nov. 5tn,‘* from his son
Richard, a truthful and reliable young man, in the' 5th
Dragoon Guards, at Manchester. This letter contained
descriptions of spiritual manifestations which had taken
place in the family circle held in his son’s own home at
Manchester. His son wrote that he had bought a small
bell for the spirits, which they could use better than
the persons present, for they could keep time to the
concertina with it; they carried it about while ringing
it, but could not ring it far away from the medium, his
wife, at present. Last week his circle consisted of him¬
self, two of his comrades and the medium ; they sat in
the dark. Soon the spirits lifted his wife up to the
ceiling; they could hear her voice ascending, and then
they missed her altogether; she was not in the room.
Then, great was their surprise to hear her outside coming
upstairs ; she was awake then, not under any influence,
and could not tell how she came upon the stairs. A
spirit named Johnson then explained that while he
mesmerised the medium, another spirit named Eliza
was doing the same to the floor, and after all their
preparations were complete, they all passed through
into the room below; as they were bringing the medium
upstairs, she awoke out of the trance, and they put her
down upon the stairs. At another seance he asked the
spirits if they could do anything with tape; they re¬
plied, “ We do not know till we try.” He accordingly
bought three yards; it was placed on the table in the
dark, and he was then told to “ play up.” In a short
time they ordered a light to be struck, when the hands
of the medium were found to be tied very tightly, and
the ends of the tape were so ingeniously hid that some
time elapsed before they could find them. The medium
was entranced while the spirits were tying her, but when
she woke up she told them to take the tape off quickly,
as it hurt her;' they then found that a slip-knot had
been put on first, and the tape pulled as tight as could
be. They gave the first half hour of every sitting to
the spirits to try what they could do to show them¬
selves in the light; the medium had an extemporised
cabinet, to get darkness, with curtains in front. A
spirit named Harriet was trying to show herself; his
son said that she had improved greatly, and could show
her drapery for fifteen or twenty seconds ; she also
stood in the opening of the curtains, full length, but
they had not as yet been able to distinguish her fea¬
tures. Once they asked the spirits to bring them some
fruit; they in return asked that twopence should be
placed anywhere he pleased; the medium put the
money on a picture-frame in the morning, and by
dinner time it was gone, though she looked at it nearly
every five minutes.* At a subsequent seance, the
spirits brought them four figs, which they said they
had carried from Stockport. His son also said, “Last
Thursday, our spirit friend, Dr. Williams, came, and
told me to let Polly go to the doctor, as he had dis¬
covered something, which, if not arrested in time,
* In the letter we published from Baron Kirkup, of Florence, to Mr.
Crookes, about the carriage of letters by spirits, the Baron stated that he
placed a letter on a piece of furniture, while he was in the room alone and
in_a few minutes, when his eyes were averted, it was gone,—Ed.
would be very bad for her. Polly went next day,
and got a bottle of medicine, for which she only paid
eighteenpence/ advice included. Our friend Johnson
told me he went with her, and influenced the doctor
to be interested in her. This is not the only time he
has saved us money. Last week Polly took my watch
to be regulated, and to have the hands put on right,
for which work, though he was a Jew, he charged only
nothing. ... I expect my comrades will send you a
short note soon. Of course, in this letter, I do not
tell you a quarter of what occurs—only the principal
things. Our friends seem to take as much interest in
it as in the fairies we read of in the story-books. Our
officers often listen to me for an hour together; but,
as I think they would think more of a simple table
tip, obtained by themselves, than they would if they
saw Harriet and her drapery, I advise them to try
themselves. In fact, my [spirit ?] friends do not want
to convince anyone. They say Polly is not getting her
living by it, and I need not care about outsiders, but
let everyone try for themselves. Of course, I should
like to convince everyone, but conditions must be looked
after.” In a subsequent letter, his son said:—“ Some
short time ago I nailed a piece of plain paper on the
wall, close to the ceiling, with a lead pencil attached
by a piece of string. Our spirit friends write on it
during the sitting, and sometimes during the day. A
short time ago two fresh spirit friends were introduced
to us, who gave their names as Mary Ann Ancle and
James Knox; it was these friends who first wrote on
the paper. . . . Having found that Mary Ann could
write direct, without the aid of my wife, I requested
her to write on Sunday night a few lines to you. The
paper was nailed on the wall, close to the ceiling, and
I enclose in this what she has written; there may be
a slight eyror in the spelling—that I have nothing to
do with.* Last week our friends made us two spirit
lights ; each light lasted about five minutes, and moved
about in time to our singing; it was about the size of
a shilling.f The spirit Johnson is also a phrenologist;
he examined the head of one of my comrades, and gave
us his character to the life. He has examined all our
heads, and I can assure you he does not always flatter
us.”
SEANCES AT MOEAVIA, UNITED STATES.
The Banner of Light, of November 16th, contains
the following account of five seances for spirit faces,
held at the house of Mr. John Andrews, Moravia, New
York State. Mrs. Andrews was the medium, and it
will be noticed that the spirits have the power of
making themselves visible, so as to be identified by
their friends,—a stage of development not yet reached
in England. The following description was written
and signed by Messrs. Daniel, D. Bonnett, and John
Hayward, of New York :—
In the light circle, where everything in the room could be
seen, we saw several faces, arms, and hands. The faces re¬
sembled those whom they represented so closely, that in nearly
all cases they were readily recognised.
The eyes of one figure were extremely bright and clear; the
beards of some of the men were seen so plainly that the colour
could be easily distinguished. A pure white handkerchief was
held in full view, in the hands of another dressed in female
attire; it was then by her placed over her mouth while cough-
* The bad spelling in some specimens of spirit writing does not always
proceed from ignorance; on critical examination it will often be found that
only just enough is written to convey the desired information, many un¬
necessary letters being left out to economise power.—Ed.
t When spirit lights are seen at dark circles, they are almost invariably
greatly strengthened by singing of the members, .and they are usually
carried by materialised spirit hands.—Ed.
Dec. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
ing; she then withdrew it, and on it was a large spot of fresh¬
looking blood.
We afterwards saw the head of a coloured female; her curly
hair was partly covered with a white' kerchief; ghe gave her
name as “Bet.” She was not known to anyone present.
John Pierpoint came, and was recognised simultaneously by
many. As viewed by us, he seemed to be an old man with
long white hair and beard. Before leaving he delivered a short
address, concluding with these words: “ Thank God, we live
after death!” Giving his name, he disappeared from view.
The son of Mr. Pope, a Universalist minister of Hyannis,
Mass., showed himself to his father, mother, and others, three
different times. At one time he said that drowning was not
so hard a death as was thought; he said further that Spiritual¬
ism was true, and requested his father to preach it, promising
that he (his son Milton) would inspire him. Mr. Pope stated,
after the seance, that one of his sons, named Milton, was
drowned a few years ago, and he was fully convinced that he
saw and conversed with that son.
Three brothers, of the name of Weaver, from Baltimore,
Md., recognised one of the faces as that of their mother; the
kind of cap on her head, and the way she wore a kerchief
about her neck (one of the brothers informed us) being strong
■points identical with her while in earth-life. The face and
hands of another lady were plainly seen ; the hair was dark
and glossy; her hands were nearly of the same colour and
appearance as if alive ; on her wrist was a bracelet, and on
the small finger of her left hand a plain ring; both had the
colour and lustre of fine gold.
We, after this, saw two hands and arms ; the ends of the
fingers were placed together, and the hands raised in the atti¬
tude of prayer. A dark face then showed itself. Some one
remarked, ^ There is a negro; ” it instantly replied, “ A
coloured person, if you please.”
At another time a relative of Mrs. Laura Guppy Smith pre¬
sented himself and was heartily welcomed by her. Five hands
were also seen, all moving at the same time ; one of them was
about the size of a child’s hand. We also saw the face of a
person who managed or had control of the manifestations, and
who was formerly known as Mr. George Jackson, of Flint, 111.
He^spoka several times in a very distinct voice. Once he said
that the faces shown were not false or masks, and, to prove
the truth of his words, he opened his mouth wide, showed his
tongue and teeth, and, as he closed his jaws quickly, the,sound
of the teeth striking together was distinctly heard in all parts
of the room.
Many other things of a similar nature occurred, but we
think these should convince the most sceptical that some un¬
seen power is at work in that quiet little town.
SEANCE WITH MISS KATE EOX.
Last Monday, although there was no “set” seance,
the spirits joined, by loud raps, in conversation during
the whole evening, with Miss Pox, Miss Ogden, and
Mr. Harrison. Some of the messages were of a private
nature, but the invisible communicants stated that there
was no great organisation among spirits to produce the
manifestations now spreading so rapidly over all the
world. The different bands of spirits were working
independently of each other, with their own me¬
dia, though now and then two or three bands
might work together for a time, out of friendliness.
When an exceptional case occurs of undeveloped spirits
causing trouble to a medium, other spirits are not re¬
sponsible for the said acts.
Miss Fox has abandoned the idea of admitting visitors
to her seances on payment of a fee.
ME. HENRY COOK’S SEANCES.
On Saturday, November 16th, at a seance at Mr.
Cook’s, Hackney, the guests present were Mrs. L. Mak-
dougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,W.;
Mrs. F. L. Stronge ; the editor of one of the London daily
newspapers; Mr. G. Thomson, M.D., of Clifton, Bristol;
Mr. Bobert Flemming, 35, Regent’s-park-road, N.W.;
Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, 16, Old Quebec-street, Marble-
arch, W.; and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Miss Florence Cook sat as usual in the cabinet for
face manifestations. The effect of the presence among
the observers outside the cabinet of a powerful medium
like Mrs. Holmes was not to alter the usual manifesta¬
tions, but to strengthen them. The faces showed them¬
selves for a longer time than usual, and bore a strong
light better. Mrs. Holmes said that every time, just
before a face appeared at the opening, she could feel
power being drawn from her.
At the first sitting Katie King showed herself well,
and a dark face showed itself imperfectly.
At the second sitting the spirit who has so often
showed her face at these seances, with the desire to be
recognised by Mr. Harrison, again appeared. Each
successive time she shows herself she bears less and less
resemblance to the medium, and now, except about the
eyes and part of the nose, bears no resemblance to her
at all. She has a full face and small mouth. Her head
is draped in white, like the other spirits, but, like a few
of the spirits, she has a black band over the upper part
of the forehead, underneath the white drapery. Mr.
Harrison said that he was very sorry, but he really
could not remember her, and had not the slightest idea
who she was. By raps, she said that he was acquainted
with her in Haverfordwest for about one year; she
died five years ago, aged eighteen years and a half.
The scar over the eye was not the cause of her death;
she received it by accident after she was taken ill; she
would not spell out her name, nor explain why she
would not or could not do so. Mr. Harrison said that
he had very many friends in Haverfordwest; he could
not recollect her features, and never heard of anybody
he knew dying there with a scar over the eye.
Perhaps, in time, as the face grows more perfect, it
may be recognised. It is now able to bear the full
light of the gas for several minutes, and can be clearly
seen.
At the third sitting, Katie asked the editorial gentle¬
man present to give her a pair of scissors, and she was
seen cutting a piece off her white head-dress. She
gave the piece to one of the sitters present, and told him
to keep it, as it was sufficiently materialised to be per¬
manent. It was something like calico, but excessively fine
and soft. Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, the electrician, of Brixton,
had a piece of a spirit robe given him in the same way
at his house at Brixton, while Mr. Williams, the medium,
was securely tied in his chair. Miss Cook was tied at
.each sitting this evening, and at the first sitting the
knots were sealed.
On Wednesday evening, November ;20th, Mr.
E. W. Allen, the publisher of The Spiritualist, the
Misses Bickell, of Camberwell, and a legal gentleman,
were among the guests present. Katie tried a new
manifestation, namely, to show two faces at the same
time, but, like all new manifestations at this circle, it
began in a weak way. Her own face was clearly seen,
but the features in a black one alongside were indis¬
tinguishable. The seance was a much poorer one than
usual, in consequence of something having occurred to
trouble the medium before it began.
On Saturday, November 23rd, there was another
seance, about which we have received the following
letter ;—
To the Editor ofil The Spiritualist."
Sir,—I have again had the pleasure of attending a seance
at Mr. Cook’s. There were present Mr. and Mrs. Cook and
family, three gentlemen visitors, 'my daughter, and myself.
One of the gentlemen being rather late, we assembled in the
seance-xooxn. without him, Miss Cook going into the cabinet.
She was conversing with Katie when the gentleman was
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 1, 1872.
announced. On Katie being asked if he might be admitted
she gave her consent. This may appear a trivial incident to
record, but as it rather interfered with the manifestations, in
causing a longer time than usual to be taken up in tying the
medium, which Katie said was owing to our not being
punctual, it shows what an effect an apparently slight cause
produces. When the tying was accomplished, which was done
with narrow black tape, in a similar manner to that previously
recorded, one of the gentlemen sealed all the knots, and the
doors of the cabinet were closed. We were then asked by
Katie to sing, when she soon showed her face at the aperture
in the cabinet, and addressed me by name, also my daughter
by her Christian name, evidently remembering her since the
last seance we attended. She then inquired the names of two
of the gentlemen who were strangers, and frequently addressed
each of them by name during the seance. Katie invited me
to go nearer to the cabinet, which I approached to within
five feet, and looked at her earnestly for some time. She had
much more power than when I last saw her,—both conversa¬
tional and life-like. In conversation her lips move quite in a
natural manner,—indeed, so much so, that she seemed to be
one of us. Her replies to all questions were most pertinent,,
and she frequently joined in the desultory conversation carried
on by the company. Sometimes, when she had not distinctly
heard the conversation, she requested it to be repeated to her.
She showed us both her hands, and manipulated with her
long flexible fingers, so that we could see she had complete
control and use of them, meanwhile calling our attention to
the shape of her hands and finger-nails, being so different
from those of the medium. After remaining some time with
us, Katie said she would bring us something. Very soon a
black face appeared. This face, owing to the colour, its
apparent diffidence, or inability to bear the light, we could
not well define. Katie, however, did all she could by coaxing
and commands to influence him, and two or three times both
faces appeared together, Katie having the black one close to
her own.
About 8.45 p.m., Katie told us her medium must leave the
cabinet. Thq door was immediately opened, when she was
found entranced, the knots tied, and seals unbroken. She
soon recovered consciousness, and one of the gentlemen cut
the knots and released her. We all left the seance-vooxa for
about half-an-hour, in order that it and the cabinet might be
well ventilated.
On re-assembling, Miss Cook requested me to take the seat
close to the cabinet, which had been occupied by her youngest
sister. On my doing so she entered the cabinet, and I locked
the door. In a short time a female face with a black head¬
dress, and very sorrowful expression of countenance, appeared.
She was not able to speak, but looked earnestly at all the
company, seemingly anxious for recognition. She then turned
her side-face, so that we might distinctly see a cicatrized
wound, about an inch in length, in an oblique direction, a
little above the outer part of the eyebrow, but it failed to
make her known to any of the company. She then left us,
and Katie came, I think, with greater power than before. She
again brought her black protegS who also possessed more
power. I distinctly saw his eyes, which were large and
glassy, and his nose was a very prominent feature. Katie
was asked why the black did not show a more developed face.
She replied, that as she required so much life for herself,
which she had to take from the medium, she could not spare
much for him, I was much interested when Katie firmly
closed her eyes. I noticed the muscles of her forehead were
contracted in a perfectly natural manner. She joined us, as
in the early part of the evening, for some time in conversa¬
tion, and then bade us “ Grood night. God bless you ! ”
I opened the cabinet, and found the medium completely
unconscious, with her face pressed against the side of the
cabinet. On her being raised from her uncomfortable posi¬
tion, I observed that her face was deeply flushed, caused,
doubtless, by the closeness of the cabinet, and formed quite a
contrast to the very iair complexion of Katie.
I forgot to name that Katie also showed her hair, which
she allowed to fall over the opening in the cabinet. It was
long, light, straight, the medium’s being short, dark, and
curled.
I am sorry to add that Miss Cook was much exhausted,
and appeared greatly distressed for some time after she had
left the cabinet.
I feel sure she is entitled to the love and sympathy of all
Spiritualists for the sufferings these manifestations cause her.
3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney, Amelia Cobnek.
November 25th, 1872.
The usufferings” spoken of by Mrs. Corner are
simply exhaustion, and the effects soon pass off. Katie
said that she was so exhausted on this occasion that the
company must sit with her for a short time in a dark
seance, “ To restore the strength of the medium, and to
give her (Katie) the power to get away from Miss Coolc.”
At this dark sitting Miss Cook was entranced. She
suddenly told one of the visitors to wake her up, for a
dark spirit was trying to control her, and neither she
nor Katie had the power to drive him away.
The face with the black band, described by Mrs.
Corner, was the “Haverfordwest” face again. This
time it had a deeply sorrowful expression, painful from
its intensity. The scar was over the right eye when
she first appeared, and it was remarked that at a former
seance the scar had been seen over the left eye. The
head then sank below the opening, and directly after¬
wards came up with the scar over the left eye, but no
mark over the other. An observer remarked that
perhaps it had been put over the right eye first that it
might be more clearly seen, as light from the gas falls
upon the right side of the faces.
Katie said that at successive sittings the black face
will gain more and more life, and reminded the observers
that her own face had little life in it, and was “ only a
lump I when it first began to appear. During the
manifestations the entranced medium is bent nearly
double, leaning forward in her chair. The “ power ”
seems to be mostly drawn from her back. Mr. Guppy
told us that his observations have led him to suppose
that most of the power for producing direct spirit voices
is drawn from the spine of the medium. Mrs. Bassett
told us that she believes that her spirits get the power
to produce the voipes from her back.
Mr. J. Luxmoore was among the observers at this
seance, and he, in common with most of the visitors
who came to the circle, said that Katie was not nearly
so much like the medium as he had been led to expect
by the reports in The Spiritualist; Katie has a larger
arid paler face, and he could see very little resemblance.
He asked us to publish this statement of his. We in¬
variably give the worst aspect of facts in order to avoid
exaggeration.
Last Tuesday evening there was another seance at
Mr. Cook’s, and during the first sitting there were some
good face manifestations. Soon after the beginning of
the second sitting, to the surprise of everybody, Katie
said that she could do no more, as some strange spirits
present, were trying to stop the manifestations. Two of
the sitters in the circle had previously felt painful sen¬
sations, the medium was very unwell when she was let
out of the cabinet, and the servant Mary, who had been
sitting in the room, said that she had felt uncomfort¬
able, and felt the veins in her arm swelling before the
seance came to its unexpected close. Mr. Luxmoore,
Mr. R. Pearce, Mrs. Tebb, and the editor of the North
Londoner were among the guests present.
SEANCE AT ME. GUPEY’S.
The following is an account of a seance held last
Sunday at the residence of Mr. Samuel Guppy, 1, Mor-
land-villas, Highbury-hill-park, N.:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sie,—You wish for an account of Sunday’s seance. The
persons present were Miss Cook, Mr. Shepherd (the medium
artist), Mrs. Fisher, the Countess Yon Weber, Count ,
Miss M , Mr. A. L. Henderson, and Mrs. Robertson. Mr.
Shepherd saw clearly several spirits standing by several
persons present, and gave in some instances extraordinary
Dec. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
29
testimony of their identity; he was a total stranger to every
person present. Mr. Shepherd was carried up to the ceiling of
the room, and both he and Miss Cook were placed on the
table. The spirits wished to turn the table upside down, or
carry it away, but this being resisted forcibly by some of the
company, the top of the table was wrenched from the
pedestal. We put the top of the table on the floor, and sat
round with our feet on it. We made a horn of some sheets of
music, and the spirits spoke in whispers to some of the com¬
pany. There were many lights, and the curtains were moved
up and down a number of times. The table trembled at times
like an aspen leaf. A large white arm passed across Mrs.
Fisher’s face several times. After tea, several messages were
given. The spirit power present was much greater than in
most seanc»s. , Samuel Guppy.
November 26th, 1872.
SEANCE' AT MRS. " kislingbury’s.
We have received the following letter :—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
SIR,—We had a very successful seance here last Monday, the
18th inst., with Mrs. Bassett as medium; I had never sat with
Mrs. Bassett before, and I have much pleasure in testifying to
her powers as a well-developed physical medium, as well as to
her genuineness and willingness to oblige.
Our circle was a small one, and held quite en famille for the
sake of affording a scientific gentleman of our acquaintance
the opportunity of observing some of the spiritualistic pheno¬
mena more deliberately than is possible at a public circle. For
this reason we sat for the first hour in the light. Raps were
given in great abundance, and of various degrees of loudness ;
two chairs, which were placed a few feet behind Mrs. Bassett,
were moved close up to the medium, and on being pushed
back, were drawn forward again. Later on we sat in the dark,
for the sake of the voices, two of which spoke successively, and
were distinctly different in tone and manner. A blotting book
was also brought from the next room through closed doors.
We had no spirit lights, bnt this was probably because the
room was not thoroughly darkened, for I am told that this
manifestation occurs continually through Mrs. Bassett’s medium-
ship.
I have sent you only a hurried account, but I shall feel it a
favour if you have room to insert it in your next number.
93, Clarendon-road, Netting-hill. Emily Kislingbury.
Violent Outbursts oe Psychic Force.—It is a remark¬
able fact that ghosts are seldom spoken of except, in terms of
contempt, although there are no more destructive nuisances
to be found in existence. The Beckham Ghost, the other day,
smashed half the windows in the district, and there is a ghost
hard at work in Georgia at the present time, who, to judge by
the account given of his proceedings by the Macon Enterprise,
seems to be quite as troublesome as the Beckham Ghost. The
Georgia Ghost has taken possession of a house, No. 6, Macon
and Brunswick Railroad, and its atrocities excited such a
wide-spread sensation that the Enterprise dispatched a special
reporter to the scene of its operations. It would take up too
much space to recount at length all that the special reporter
saw and heard, but the following are a few of the perform¬
ances of the: ghost, which came under his immediate observa¬
tion. Before he arrived, the ghost had broken nearly all the
crockery and glass-ware in the house, and scattered all the
furniture and the contents of the wardrobes about the floors,
and almost immediately after the reporter entered the house,
it set an old family clock going at the rate of five hours a
minute, although its works were in perfect order. Having
finished with the clock, the ghost set a pair of scissors jump¬
ing about the floor ; it then threw a red-hot brickbat at the
reporter, and incited a hot smoothing-iron to jump at him.
The reporter by this time needing refreshment, dinner was
served, but was disturbed by a shower of corn from the ceil¬
ing, and the smashing of .glass. In the meantime, horrible
occurrences were going on in the kitchen, where knives, pots,
skillets, and crockery, were falling around the cook, to her
intense horror and disgust. The house, it seems, is occupied
by a quiet old gentleman, M. Guenency, but it is to be feared
his quietness must be rather disturbed ; for, by the latest
accounts, there were at least three or four hundred persons
surrounding his dwelling, and the Macon and Brunswick
Railway had dispatched an extra train to the spot, filled
with excited passengers. It is also stated that people were
“ coming in from all directions.”—Pall Mall Gazette, Novem¬
ber l±th, 1872.
A GUARDIAN ANGEL.
’Tis sweet to think the pure ethereal being,
Whose mortal form reposes with the dead,
Still hovers round unseen, yet not unseeing,
Benignly smiling o’er the mourner’s bed.
She comes in dreams, a thing of light and lightness;
I hear her voice, in still, small accents tell
Of realms of bliss, and never-fading brightness,
Where those who loved on earth together dwell. 1
Ah! yet a while, blest shade, thy flight delaying,
The kindred soul with mystic converse cheer ;
To her rapt gaze in visions bland displaying,
The unearthly glories of thy happier sphere.
Yet, yet remain! till freed like thee, delighted,
She spurns the thraldom of encumbering clay ;
Then as on earth, in tend’rest love united.
Together seek the realms of endless day.
Ingoldsby Legends.
Mr. D. D. Home arrived in London from Paris a week
ago, and intends to reside at Malvern for a short time for the
benefit of his health.
Miss Lottie Fowler, the trance-medium, left London
for Liverpool a little more than a fortnight ago, and she is
now on her way to America.
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh and Mr. J. Burns will publicly
discuss the question of Spiritualism on Monday and Tuesday
evenings, December 16th and 17th, at eight o’clock, in the
New Hall of Science, 142, Old-street, City-road, London.
A Rescue.—An alarming fire occurred yesterday in
Dunecht House, twelve miles from Aberdeen, which belongs
to the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, and is occupied by his
eldest son, Lord Lindsay. With the help of fire-engines from
Aberdeen, it was confined to the wing where the servants
sleep, which was almost entirely destroyed. While the fire
was at its height, the inarticulate cries of a deaf and dumb
lady’s maid were heard issuing from one of the rooms where
the fire was raging, and Lord Lindsay heroically darted through
the flames, and brought her safely to the outside, a few
seconds before the roof fell with a great crash.—Daily Tele¬
graph, November 5th, 1872.
A Haunted Police Cell.—Few positions in life can be
imagined more disagreeable than that of being imprisoned dn
a haunted cell in a police station. The New Orleans Times
tells a most unpleasant story of a ghost-infested cell in the
Fourth Precinct police station in that city. It appears that
several years ago “a little old woman” named Ann Murphy
committed suicide by hanging herself in this cell, and since
that event no fewer than thirteen persons shut up in the cell
have attempted to destroy themselves in a similar manner,
four of these attempts being attended with fatal results.
One of those lately cut down before life was extinct was a girl
named Mary Taylor, who on recovering consciousness declared
that while lying on the floor of the cell she was aroused by a
little old white woman, dressed in a faded calico dress, *| with
brown jeans and josey,” no stockings, and down-trodden
slippers, with a faded handkerchief tied round her head.
Her faded dress was bound with a sort of reddish-brown
tape, and her hand was long, faded, and wrinkled, while on
the fourth finger of her left hand was a plain thin gold ring.
“ This little woman,” said the girl, “ beckoned me to get up,
and impelled me by some mysterious power to tear my dress
in strips, place one end of a strip round my neck and tie the
other to the bars. I lifted my feet from the floor and fell. I
thought I was choking, a thousand lights seemed to flash
before my eyes, and I forgot all until I found myself in the
room, with the doctors and police bending over' me. It was
not until then I really comprehended what I had done, and
was, I believe, under a kind of trance or influence at the
time, over which I had no control.” Mary Taylor had never
heard of the suicide of Ann Murphy, whose appearance,
according to the police, exactly tallied with the description
given by the girl. Others having complained in like manner
of the ghostly occupant of the cell, the police, to test the real
facts of the case, placed a night lodger, who had but just arrived
in the city, in this cheerful apartment. Being thoroughly
tired and worn out, he fell asleep immediately, but shortly
afterwards rushed into the office in a state of terrible alarm.
He, too, had been visited by the little old woman, and wisely
declined to sleep another hour in the station.—Pall Mall
Gazette, Nov. 22nd, 1872.
30
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. ij 1872.
OTortegipontience,
\Grzat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCES OF SIR T. MOORE’S FAMILY,
Sir,—I have just been reading, for the first time, The House¬
hold of Sir Thomas More, being the diary of his favourite
daughter Margaret; and there are so many incidents of a
spiritual nature therein related, that I thought perhaps you
would like a few .extracts for the Spiritualist.—E, D. Ponder.
Brixton, Jtfov. 21st, 1872.
“ June 23rd, 1522.—Margaret meets an old woman whom
she knows, ‘ After a moment I asked, where lies your dwell¬
ing?’ ‘ Out by-yonder,’ quoth she, pointing to a shapeless
mass like a huge bird’s nest, in the corner of a field. ‘ There
bides jpoor Joan and I. Wilt come in, mistress, and see how
a Christian can die ? ’
“ I mutelie complyed, in spite of Cecy’s pulling at my skirts.
Arrived at the writched abode, which had a hole for a
chimney, and another for a door at once and window, I found,
sitting in a corner, propped on a heap of rushes, dried leaves,
and olde rags, an aged sick woman, who seemed to have but a
little while to live. A mug of water stoode within her reache ;
I saw none other sustenance; but, in her visage, oh, such
peace ! . . . Whispers Gammer with an awfulle look, ‘ She
sees ’em now! ’
“ ‘ Sees who ? ’ quoth I.
“ ‘ Why angels, in two long rows, afore the throne of God,
a bending of themselves, this way, with their faces to the
earth, and arms stretched out afore ’em.’
‘ Hath she seen a priest ? ’ quoth I.
“ ‘Lord love ye,’ returns Gammer,’ I what coulde a priest do
for her ? She’s in heaven alreadie. I doubte if she can hear
me.’ And then, in a loud, distinct voyce, quite free from her
usuall mumping, she began to. recite in English—“ Blessed is
everyone that feareth the Lord and walketh in His ways, &c.’
which the dying woman heard, although alreadie speechlesse ;
and reaching out her feeble arm unto her sister’s neck, she
dragged it down till their faces touched : and then, looking up,
pointed at somewhat she aimed to make her see, and we alle
looked up, but sawnoughte. . . . Howbeit, she pointed up three
severall times, and lay, as it were, transfigured before us, a-
gazing at some transporting sight, and ever and anon turning
on her sister looks of love ; and the while we stoode thus agaze,
her spirit passed away, without even a thrill or shudder. Cecy
and I began to weepe; and after a while, soe did Gammer; then
putting us forth, she sayd, ‘ Goe children, goe ; ’tis no goode
crying ; and yet, I’m thankfully to ye for your tears.’ . . . Soe
we left, and came home sober enow. Cecy sayth, ‘ To die is
not soe fearfulle, Meg, as I thoughte; but shoulde you fancy
dying without a priest ? ’ I should not, and yet Gammer sayd
she wanted not one. Howbeit for certain Gammer Gurney
is no witch, or she woulde not so praise God.”
“ 1534, May 22nd. — Meg visits her father, Sir Thomas
More, in his prison. . . . ‘ Or ever I was aware I founde myself
quit of my companions and in father’s arms. We both cried
a little at first; I wonder I wept noe more, but strength was
given me in that hour. As soon as I coulde, I lookt him in
the face, and he lookt at me, and I was beginning to note his
hollow cheeks,- when he sayd, ‘ Why, Meg, you are getting
freckled;’ soe that made us bothe laugh. He sayd, ‘You
should get some freckle-water of -the lady (Anne Boleyne),
who sent me here ; depend on it she hath washes and tinctures
in plenty ; and after all, Meg, she’ll come to the same end at
last, and be as the lady, all bone and skin, whose ghastlie
legend used to scare thee soe when thou wert a child. Don’t
tell that story to thy children, ’twill hamper ’em with un¬
savoury images of death. Tell them of heavenlie hosts
awaiting to carry off good men’s souls in fire-bright chariots,
with horses of the sun, to a land where they shall never more
be surbated and weary, but walk on cool, springy turf, and
among myrtle trees, and eat fruits that shall heal while they
delight them, and drink the coldest of cold water, fresh from
the river of life, and have space to stretch themselves, and
bathe and leap, and run, and whichsoever way they look, meet
Christ’s eyes smiling on them. Sure, Meg, who would live
that coulde die? One might as lief be an angel shut up
in a nutshell as bide here. Fancy how gladsome the sweet
spirit woulde be to have the shell cracked! No matter by whom;
the king, or the king’s mistress. . .. Let her dainty foot but
set him free, he’d say, For this release much thanks.
“ ‘ When they lick up my blood, deare Meg, let not your
heart be troubled, even though they shoulde hale thee to Lon-
don-bridge to see my head on a pole. Think, most dear’st,
I shall then have more' reason to weep for thee than thou for
me. But there’s noe weeping in heaven; and bear in mind,
Meg, distinctlie, that if they send me thither, ’twill be for
• obeying the law of God rather than of men. . . . ’
“Thus we went on,from one theme to another, till me-
thinketh a heavenlie light seemed to shine alle about us,
like as when the angel entered the prison of Peter. I hung
upon every word that issued from his lips, and drank them in'
as a thirsty land sucks up the tender rain. . . . Had the angel
of death at that hour come in to fetch both of us away, I
woulde not have sayd him nay, I was soe passively, so intensely
happy. . . . Father continued—‘You fancy these four walls
lonesome; how oft dost thou suppose I here receive Plato and
Socrates, and this and that holy saint and martyr ? My
gaolers can noe more keep them out than they can exclude
the sunbeams. Thou knowest Jesus stood among His disciples
when the doors were shut. . . . Often in spirit I am with you
alle; in the chapel, in the hall, in the garden. . . n
“ ‘You see me not about your path ; you won’t see my dis¬
embodied spirit beside you hereafter, but it may be close upon
you once and agayn for alle that; maybe at times when you
have prayed with most passion, or suffered with most patience,
or performed my bests with most exactness, or remembered
my care of you with most affection; and now, good speed,
good Meg, I hear the key turn in the door.’
*****
“ Though not given much, hitherto, to heede omens and
bodements while our hearts were light, and courage high, yet
now the conilng evil seemeth foreshadowed unto alle, by I know
not how many melancholick presages, sent, for aught we know,
in mercy. . . .
“ Another time I, going up to the nurserie in the dark, on
hearing baby cry, am passed on the stairs by I know not what,
breathing heavilie. I reache forthe my arm, but pass cleare
through the spiritual! nature, whatever it is, yet distinctlie feel
my cheek and neck fanned by its breath. I turn very faint,
and get nurse to goe with me when I return, bearing a light;
yet I think it as well to say naught to distress the rest. But
worst- of alle was last night. After I had been in bed awhile,
I minded me that deare Will had not returned me father’s
letter: I woke him and asked if he had broughte it upstairs ;
he sleepily replied he had not, soe I hastily arose, threw on a
cloke, took a light and entered the gallery; when, half-way
along it, between me and the pale moonshine, I was scared to
behold a slender figure alle in white, with naked feet, and arms
extended. I stoode agaze, speechlesse, and, to my terror, made
out the features of Bess (her sister), her eyes open, but vacant;
then saw John Dancey softly stealing after her, and signing to
me with his finger on his lips. She passed without noting
me, on to father’s door, there knelt as if in prayer, making a
low sort of wail, while Dancey, with tears running down his
cheeks, whispered, ‘ ’Tis the third time of her thus sleep¬
walking—the token of how troubled a mind! ’ We disturbed
her not, dreading that a sudden waking might bring on mad¬
ness. She kisses the senseless door, rises up, moves towards
her own chamber, followed by Dancey and me, wrings her hands
a little, then lies down and graduallie falls into what seems a
dreamlesse sleep, we watching her in silence till she’s quiet;
then squeezing each other’s hands ere we part/
“Will was wide awake when I got back. He sayd, ‘Why,
Meg, how long you have beene! coulde you not lighte on the
letter ? ’ When I told him what had hindered me by the way,
he turned his face to the wall and wept.”
“Midnight. — Deare little Bill hath ta’en a feverish at¬
tack. I watch beside him while nurse sleeps. ... At length
I gave him my fore-finger to hold, which kept him aware of
my presence, without speaking; but presentlie he stares hard
towards the foot of the bed, and says fearfullie: f Mother, why
hangs your hatchet in the air with its sharp edge turned to¬
wards us ? ’ I rise, move the lamp, and say : ‘ Do you see it
now?’ He sayeth: ‘ No, not now,’ and closes his eyes.
* * * * *
“ He’s gone, my pretty! Slipt through my fingers like a
bird upfled to his own native skies; and yet when as I think
of him, I cannot choose but weepe.” _
“ May 7th, 1535.—Father arraigned.”
“ July 1st.—.. . Was it less feeling, or more strength of body,
enabled me to bide at the Tower wharf with Dancey ? God
knoweth. They brought him back by water; my poor sisters
must have passed him. The first thing I saw was the axe,
Dec. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
31
turned with its edge towards him, — my first note of his
sentence.”
July 5th.—Alle’s over now; .. . they’ve done theire worst,
and yet I live. . . . My thoughts beginne to have connection
now; but till last night I slept not. ’Twas scarce sunset. Mercy
had been praying beside me, and I lay outside my bed, in¬
clining to stupor rather than sleep. O’ sudden, I have an
impression that someone is leaning over me, though I hear
them not, nor feel theire breath. I start up, cry ‘ Mercy ! ’ but
she’s not there, nor anie one else. I turn on my side, and be¬
come heavie to sleep; but, or ere I drop quite off, I’m sensible
or apprehensive of some living consciousness between my
closed eyelids and the setting sunlight; agayn start up and
stare about, but there’s nothing. Then I feel like Eli, maybe,
when the child Samuel came to him twice; and tears well
into mine eyes, and I close them agayn, and say in mine heart:
I If he’s at hand, oh, let me see him next time—the third
time’s lucky.’ But, steade of this, I fall into a quiet, balmy,
dreamlesse sleep. Scince then, I’ve had an abiding, assuring
sense of help, of a hand, upholding me, and smoothing and
glibbing the way before me.”
TEST CONDITIONS.
Sir,—In the Spiritualist of the 15th inst., there is an article
on “ Test Conditions.” Among several reasons which you
give in that article to a Manchester correspondent, why ” an
iron grating should not be placed horizontally between the
head of Miss Cook and the opening of the cabinet, as one
means of obtaining spirit-faces under test-conditions,” you
say,—“ Mr. Guppy once thought of making a cabinet with a
grating for the Davenports. He, however, consulted the
spirits about it first. They told him that the hands and arms
were made ne^r the mediums, and that they could not get
them through the grating, if he made one.” Unfortunately
for me, I have never had an opportunity of witnessing any
such manifestations, and all I know of the subject is derived
from conversations with a gentleman (a Spiritualist) who has
frequently witnessed them, and from reports in your paper,
and the perusal of one or two standard works on the subject.
From those sources of information I have gathered that the
hands, arms, and faces, are, so to speak, manufactured by the
spirits from a semi-spiritual something drawn from the
medium and sitters, and that such arms and faces soon melt
away into nothingness, or, at least, become invisible. Now,
if such very incorporeal substances could not be squeezed by
the spirits through an iron grating, how could the flowers,
fruits, live animals, ice, and all kinds of articles frequently
said to have been brought by their power through stone
walls ? Nay, further, how could Mrs. Guppy (said to be one
of the largest women in London) have been brought miles
through the air, and placed bodily in a room where some of
her friends were holding a seance, having passed in her flight
from her own house and into the other, through solid masonry
or the not much less solid roofs and ceilings ? Of the truth¬
fulness of this flight Mr. Guppy was so positive, that he offered
to wager something considerable that his wife, after being
examined by a jury of matrons to ascertain what she had
about her, should be locked up in some strong place,—I think
the vaults of the Bank of England were suggested,—and bring
out with her something that she did not take in,—that is, that
she should have something conveyed to her by the spirits,
possibly, the elephant from the Zoological Gardens. Pity that
Mr. Guppy’s challenge was not taken up. Evidently there
has been some blundering somewhere; either Mrs. Guppy
never was carried through stone walls, and if she had been
deposited in the vaults of the Bank of England, a white
elephant, or any other material thing, could never have been
brought to her by the spirits through the solid walls, or bolted
and barred doors, or the spirits who told Mr. Guppy that they
could not get those ephemeral arms and hands through an
iron grating must have miserably underrated their power.
I grant that there is a great deal of reason in what you say
about the impropriety of imposing our own conditions in
seeking for manifestations from the spirit land, at the same
time, it is not unreasonable to expect that the spirits would
so far condescend to our weakness as to afford us the most
positive proof possible that the manifestations are real. In
refusing to use a cabinet constructed with an iron grating
placed between the medium and the point where the mani¬
festations take place on the ground of inability to get the
materialised hands and arms through the grating, is to deny
a great portion of the phenomena said to have been produced
by the spiritual agency, and, I submit, places Spiritualists in
general, and Mr. Guppy in particular, between the horns of
a dilemma ; and I shall wait, with as much patience as I can
command, to see which they and he will choose.
Thomas Vaughan.
Haverfordwest, Nov. 18th, 1872.
[A little thought would have shown our correspondent that the two
manifestations are different in kind. In the one case a material and per¬
manent earthly object disappears in one place and reappears in another.
In the other case, materials are taken from the body of the medium to
create a thing which previously had no existence on earth,—namely, a
materialised spirit hand, which usually looks and feels like a hand made
of flesh and blood. The. short time it lasts it is connected with the medium,
and drawing much vital power from the medium, although the whole of
the chain of connection may not be visible to the human eye. The propo¬
sition is to place an iron grating between the temporary object and the
source of its life. Mr. Vaughan’s letter suggests to us that it might be well
fo make a double cabinet with a partition consisting of one solid piece of
wood, and try if the spirits, as a regular thing, can get the medium through
the plank. Will Mr. Barber, of Manchester, whose experiences are printed
on another page, try this ?—Ed.]
Anthropology.—The Anthropological Institute, 4, St.
Martiu’s-place, Loudon, W.C., was founded for the purpose of
studying man as a science ; it now has a numerous body of
supporters, and has ” corresponding members ” in all parts of
the globe. If the Institute would study psychological sub¬
jects, the members in foreign countries could collect a most
interesting mass of information about spiritual manifestations
among savages and the lower races of mankind. All those
Spiritualists who feel an interest in the scientific study of
man ought to join the Anthropological Institute. We think
the time is not far off when the Institute will set to work to
thoroughly investigate both mesmerism and Spiritualism ; but
in the meantime the information it diffuses among its mem¬
bers about the body of man and kindred subjects, is of
the most useful description. The Secretary is Mr. J. F.
Collingwood.
A Medical Magazine on Spiritualism.—The Dublin
Journal of Medical Science, for September, 1872, reviews five
publications, namely, The Mysteries vf the Vital Element, by
Robert H. Collyer, M.D. (Renshaw) 1871; Spiritualism
Answered by Science, by Edward W. Cox, S.L., 1871 ; Psychic
Force and Modern Spiritualism, by William Crookes, F.R.S.,
1872 ; The Spiritualist Newspaper, 1871-2 ; and The Quarterly
Journal of Science, Inly, 1870, and October, 1871. The re¬
viewer, in the course of his somewhat impartial remarks, says :
—“In attempting to analyse the recent investigations on this
subject, it is right to approach them with the mind disabused,
as much as possible, of the natural prejudice against such be¬
liefs—for it is highly unphilosophic to cast aside any set of
observations, no matter hpw much we may.be—on a priori
ground—prejudiced against them ; and there is no doubt these
phenomena have never been hitherto fairly tested, for it is not
true, as has been stated in a recent contemporary, that these
so-called phenomena were investigated, and thoroughly de¬
tected as impostures fifteen years ago. The former investiga¬
tion, viewed in the light of the alleged facts, is, to a great ex¬
tent, utterly worthless, and the time has come for a real
scientific examination of these very remarkable statements.”
The reviewer also says :—“ We cannot conclude this very short
survey of these experiments of Mr. Crookes without expressing
our opinion that the time has come when these manifestations
should be carefully examined into by the highest scientific au¬
thorities, so that any sources of mistake or deception should be
clearly made public ; for though we hold a very decided opinion
on the subject, yet it is not competent for any reviewer to re¬
ject the evidence offered, on the ground of any a priori doubt.
We sympathise with Mr. Crookes in the rejection of his paper
by the Royal Society ; and, if the public are in possession of
the whole facts of the case, we certainly think that, in the in¬
terests of science, he has been unfairly treated. The d priori
argument has been used fallaciously, we think, in this inquiry.
On the same ground one might deny any electrical power in
the Gymnotus because the Conger had none. Besides we have
undoubted reason to believe in the dynamicily of will force.”
T3EVERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
JL* FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, holborn, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAVEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T, "With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. 'W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
32
THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 1, 1871
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
DEDICATED (bypermission) to Sir WALTER TREVELYAN, Bart.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results.- Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started withorit a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accm’ate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. "Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sittei’s breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
(8. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower sph-its to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands.- The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to Work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Aftei'wards the question should be. put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to. get the best manifestations ?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spixit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMBS CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
ashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. - As. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from ., ... 3 0 0
Vests  0 7 0| Unrivalled Black Doe .110
Tweed Suit ...   £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvanus Hakeis, M.D.
(Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO., 20, Catherine-sti’eet, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
in England, by Benjamin Coleman, recently published in the
Spiritualist, reprinted in pamphlet form, on toned paper1, with coloured
wrapper. The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies may be
had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and
are of especial value for presentation to those who are uninformed on the
subject of Spiritualism.
Will shortly be Published, price 2s. 6d., bound in cloth extra, with a
Portrait of the Smuggler, engraved from a Photograph by James Part-
bidge, Esq. ’
THE LAST OF THE SMUGGLERS: being- tbe
Autobiography of William Rattenbury, of Beer, Devon. Edited by
George Fraser, with numei’ous explanatory notes by Miss Elizabeth Ti’aies.
Descriptions of this woi’k have ah’eady appeared in “The Graphic” for
9th December, 1871 and the “ Dark Blue ” Magazine for September, 1872.
It is interesting as x-ecording very faithfully the Devonshire idiom, and also
as illustrating a curious phase of English domestic history. Ii was at the
persuasion of Mr. Glasscott, the late Vicar of Seaton and Beer, that Ratten¬
bury wrote the autobiography, which has been read in its manuscript form
by many visitoi’s to those Devonshhe villages, and is now put into the
publishers’ hands in the hope of realising some small sum which may save
the aged smuggler from the woi’khouse. Mr. Ruskin, who has read the
original manuscript, writes:—“I shall have much pleasure in subscribing
for two copies of the ‘ Life of the Old Smuggler,’ and am glad it is to be*
published.”
Amongst other subscribers are the followingEarl of Devon, the Earl
of Pembroke, Lady Mary Herbert, Lady Taunton, Sir John D. Coleridge,
M.P., Sir Walter C. Ti’evelyan, Bart., Sir Charles E. Trevelyan, K.C.B., Sir
John Bowring, Admiral Sir Jas. D. H. Elphinstone, Bart., M.P., Sir Massey
Lopes, Bart., M.P., Sir Stafford H. Northcote, M.P., Sir Sydney H. Water-
low, Admiral Sir Thomas Pasley, Bai’t., Sir Frederick Bathurst, Lady
Jane Swinburne, Sir Charles Isham, the Hon. Mark Rolle, J. Gwynne
Holford, Esq., M.P., S. Morley, Esq., M.P., Dr. John Brown (“Rab and His
Friends.”), Dante G Rossetti, Esq, John Forstei’, Esq., A. Locker, Esq.
(“Graphic”), Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D., Rev. Canon Kingsley, Rev. J.
Llewelyn Davies, Rev. C. A. Johns, W. D. -Christie, Esq., C.B., W. Cave
Thomas^ Esq., Rev. H. Vyvyan (Vicar of Seaton and Beex-), Charles Hutton
Gregoiy, Esq., C.E., Captain D&kymple Elphinstone, R.N. Rev. Compton
Reade, Mrs. Stirling, Mrs. Amelia Lewis, JohnC. Freund, Esq. Algernon C.
Swinburne, Esq., William Morris, Esq. (Earthly Paradise), F. Madox
Brown, Esq., &c., &c.
As only a limited number of copies will be printed, persons interested
are X’equested to send their names and addresses as soon as possible to Mr.
George Fraser, 3, Middleton-ro.ad, Camden-i-oad, London, N., or to the
publishers, British and Colonial Publishing Cofnpany, Limited, 81a, Fleet-
stx-eet, E.C.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfxxlly solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spiritualist
£ s. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq     15 0 0
“ A Friend at a Distance ”  '   10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq  ...- 5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq. ...   ...   6 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S  5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox ... ...      5 0 0
“ Truthseeker’’(Liverpool)      5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, B(irt    ... 5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— - £ s. d.
Miss Ponder  10 0
Miss E. Ponder ...     10 0
Mrs. Rudd   ".     10 0
“Longfellow” .-. 1  1 0 0
Mr. Withall     1 0 0
Mr. E. Bird     ...   10 0
Mr. George Dawson      10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers     10 0
Mi'. Rogers   '... ... 10 0
■ Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald    ... ... 10 0
Mrs. Gunyon   ... ... '  10 0
  8 0 0
“A Friend,” Temple  ...    ... .;  3 3 0
N. F, Daw, Esq     ... ... “  3 3 0
Richard<Beamish, Esq., F.R.S. ... ... ... ;    3 3 0
James Wason, Esq     3 3 0
The Countess of Caithness    ...   ’ 2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston     ...     2 2 0
Bitterness ”... ...    1  2 2 0
Algernon Joy, Esq. ri,.    2 0 0
James Beattie, Esq  2 0 0
G. Thomson, Esq., M.D  ...   ... ... ... ...10 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell     ... ... 1 0 0
“A Friend,”Manchester  '     ... 110
Benjamin Coleman, Esq. ... r  110
E. Musgrave, Esq. ... ...'  ... ...'I 1 0
“ A Friend,” F.R.S  ... ...   r ...   100
MissKislingbury...      ... 10 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq. ...     1 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory          ... 1 0 0
Miss J. H. Douglas ...         ...100
“AFriend”   A.   ...   10 0
J. Craig, Esq.  |   0 10 0
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account   0 8 6
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasui'er, Portman.chambers, Poftman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq., Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holbom Printing
.Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andre w-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C.
