AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
NO. 93.—(VOL. IY.—No. 23.)
LONDON: JUNE 5, 1874.
Published Weekly; Price Threepence
<£ontentg.
Eternal Punishment and Orthodox Theology. By Gerald Massey,
A Singular Experience with a Spirit calling himself an Egyptian
Catherine "Woodforde ...      
A Spiritualistic Norel. A Seance with a Trance Medium
Humboldt on Spiritual Phenomena 
The Last of “Katie King.” Tne Photographing of “Katie King
the aid of the Electric Light. By William Orookes, F.R.S.
The Last Illness of Judge Edmonds ...       
Poetry—Two Saint’s Days 
Correspondence:— Mr. Serjeant Oox on
Seance at Mr. Serjeant Cox’s, 274; Mr
Psychic Force, 275; An Explanation, 275
on Spiritualism    ...
Spirit Messages on Selfishness 
Paragraph :—St. John’s Association of Spiritualists ...
By
hy
Incarnation,’’ 272; The
and Mrs. Holmes, 275;
Mr. Moncure de Conway
266
268
269
270
271
272
276
276
269
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving hy undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fkitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Rieee.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
'Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay. -*
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton, | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society sgeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable,
pjf—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
REDUCTION IN THE PRICE OF
THE SPIRITUALIST.
On and after Friday, June 19th. next, the price
of The Spiritualist will he reduced to Twopence,
without any reduction in the size or quality of the
journal.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
OF
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr.*Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Corner,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear-
ing_ of the phenomena of SpiritualisHq,several residents in Balston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX) . Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same’regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: ’his life and
WRITINGS, By WILLIAM WHITE.; Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by O. H. Jeens—i Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Establisbed 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis, •
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 5, 1874
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Associatioti are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvepor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Gain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele,
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in 'Olerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
ntp closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, SO. Parkfield-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL-’
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR .
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors Open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR-
- CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, RusSell-STReet, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light,, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, mcluding use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions •.—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Hxbme&i N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-laneJ
. Offices.BERNERS STREET.
Hon. /See.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. In two vols., Crown 8vo.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS. 
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8v<J., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
TREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Eeview.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM : its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. ByW. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewher^—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: TrUBNER & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
Price 2s. 6<L
LIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND 
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 86, Rue de la Cathedrals, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Illle, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,’’
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Patemoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
REWARD.—MASKEDYNE & COOKE-
an expose
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota).
London; J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Price One Penny.
eJAs
eJMs
VOJLUJVIE FOUR. JS[UJVIBE^ TWEJMTY-THREE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE Bth, 1874.
l^ttrsppr
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMEHTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.G.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impedinients and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
Ihe Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
T^EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
ETERNAL PUNISHMENT AND ORTHODOX
THEOLOGY.*
BY GERALD MASSEY.
Certain things, our orthodox friends assure us, are
settled. But, according to their own showing, these
very things, when started, were never more unsettled;
never so uncertain as at the present time. And when
these certain things do get settled, I do not doubt that
the occupation of those who preach them will be gone.
The world is waking from its phantom dreams
To make out that which is from that which seems;
And in the light of day shall blush to find
What things of night had power enough to blind
Its vision; what thin wall of musty gray,
As if of granite, stopped its onward way.
We are about to question everything they have
assumed. They have closed the controversy; we have
but just begun to open it. They have made and tied
up their little bundle of dried sticks, whilst ours are
only just beginning to grow, and are yet green and
lusty with the sap of life. We have not done with the
note of interrogation. Many questions have to be put
and answered that they little dream of. Why, what
are we ourselves but incarnate questions which God
alone can answer?
Some people have a vision of their own they will
not part with, even though they have to close their
eyes and shut out everything else. But that is what
others of us cannot do. There’s a spirit within us
that wants to see, and will see, and must tear off the
bandage and the blinkers to see—each for himself—-
whether the traditional vision be true. And why on
earth did God give us the faculty of sight, and hold up
the light for us to see by, but that he meant us to see,
and to go on seeing?
It has become necessary to doubt what has been
taught on theological grounds as a duty to ourselves.
It has become necessary to stand outside the orthodox
churches before we can appreciate the character of
their supposed founder, and see how little they have
in common with him. They are not thinking God’s
thoughts by merely echoing the thoughts of the Hebrews
who wrote two or three thousand years ago. Our ques¬
tion is, What is the Eternal thinking—i.ei, thinking
or shaping now ? What is he driving at ? Which way
is the Divine breath blowing ? What fresh revelation
has He for England? What new message for America?
Can you divine, rethink His living will in the present
living time ? Can you gauge the tide that is setting in
from the other shores ?
Only this will avail, only this will help our nine¬
teenth century need. Spiritualism is undermining them
on the one hand as fast as science saps them on the
other, aud they are at war against the facts of both,
on behalf of a belief established on the ground that
* Extracted from the last lecture delivered by Mr. Gerald Massey, in
America.
266
THE SPIRITUALIST.
both are destroying day by day—on behalf of a religion
that is at once non-scientific and non-spiritual.
Belief on the theological grounds grew less and less
the more you reasoned about its postulates. Hence
their dread and denunciation of reason, they had so
lumped the impossible and the possible together, to the
utter confusion of both and confounding of reason.
But no amount of reason can ever destroy the solid body
of a single fact. And their anathema against reason
shows they do not rest on a solid ground of fact. What
chance, think you, has the old religion of faith against
our religion of fact ? The same as glass in a clashing
with iron. If these men truly cared for the facts of
religion, instead of shaking the fist and gnashing the
teeth at Spiritualism, they would embrace it as if it
were the hand of very salvation itself, for it contains
the sole fact that they have to go upon, or ever did
have, or ever can have. But what they care for are
the fables 'and the figments which have become their
stock-in-trade. The fact may go to the devil, to whom,
indeed, they generally consign it. For if God ever does
try to speak with them, to prove the fact, they say “ it
can’t be our God, He is dead and buried in a book; it
must be the devil.” Why, they are ignorantly,
stupidly committing that crime against the Holy Spirit
which Jesus called the unpardonable sin, which un¬
pardonable sin they are puzzling their heads over, never
dreaming of what our great Spiritualist meant. Look
at your supposed learned doctors still trying to get at
the other world as grave-diggers, still fumbling after
the spiritual being of man as if his real essence were
dust of the earth, which they assure us God has the
power to put together again—every particle of it—and
so we shall rise again. And so eighteen hundred years
after their Jesus Christ hewed out His window in the
blank, dense wall of Hebrew materialism, to let in a
spiritual light, they are yet trying to stuff and stop up
the aperture with His dead body and the physical re¬
surrection, and to them it is a blind window still.
What is there that men have not found compatible
with mere belief ? Have they not cut each other’s
throats, believing it to be for the glory of God ? Have
they not burned bodies by the thousand, believing it to
be the surest way of saving souls from hell ? Why,
men have believed that by standing on one leg for
thirty years they would be permitted to hop into heaven
at last. They believed that we were children of the
same father, and brethren of one family, created in the
image of one God, and yet for ages they could leave the
poor in the grossest mental night. They have seen
these poor brothers and sisters of theirs being gradually
transformed into the likeness of devils by want, and
squalor, and filth, and disease of all kinds, physical and
mental, huddled together in the pits and dens of poverty
and crime like a stock of pestilence kept for breeding
purposes; never remembering they were of one flesh
and blood until the effluvia of the cholera reek ascended,
and the poor neglected wretches caught them in the
arms of death, thus proving their brotherhood by their
power to infect and kill them.
Men have believed there must be a physical resurrec¬
tion, otherwise the damned could not gnash their poor
teeth in eternal torment. Men believe they ought not
to bow down before any graven image, who all the
week go down and grovel in the dust on all fours in
front of one that twinkles golden and winks at Moses,
having on it the image of the queen or president
stamped on the current coin of the realm. Men have
June 5, 1874.
believed that God was the natural author of diseases
and evils which they created, and have fostered for ages,
and are responsible for before God and man to-day.
They have mocked us long enough with their lying
beliefs about God and the origin of evil, but we may be
sure that God is not mocked. He sees through all the
selfish pretence of such belief, and the reckoning has
yet to come. The wrongs they have done to God and
man here on earth have yet to be righted here on earth.
Men have believed that on account of Adam’s sin
myriads on myriads of helpless, guiltless human beings
were doomed to an eternity of eternities of eternalised
torments'in which they were to suffer out a salaman-
drine immortality, if you did not think as they did.
They have believed that in the field of human soul
Satan is the harvester and God the gleaner, and the
crowded wains roll staggering through the doorways of
hell, while the redeemed vestiges of the world-crop are
easily borne to heaven in the arms of a few weeping
angels. They have believed in a God who was an
omnipotent fiend and demoniac, quite unknown to
the devil-worship of the past—a curse that sat en¬
throned amid the universe, breathing horror all abroad,
and brooding down in blackness on the souls of men,
and the ascending smoke of torments was to magnify
the features of his monstrous majesty. And if you were
one of the chosen, elected to a front seat in the kingdom
of this dreadful God, the daintiest part of your enjoy¬
ment was to be ^ full and perfect view of the poor
damned souls, including those of wee babies a span
long. The great Mr. Spurgeon will tell you what a de¬
lectable entertainment you may expect, for he says all
their veins are roads for the feet of pain to travel in,
and every nerve is a string on which the devil shall for
ever play his diabolical tune of hell’s unutterable tor¬
ment. And as the song of the ransomed was singing,
word would come that your father was among the
damned, and you would sing all the louder; or that
several of your little ones were in hell, and your
hallelujahs would be redoubled.
And orthodox hearts have been warmed and hands
exultingly rubbed over these pictures in the fire.
“ Don’t deprive me of my devil,” said Charles Lamb.
And in giving up the old ideas of hell, one does feel a
lingering regret that these gloating ghouls should not
have the taste in life of that which they have described
with such infernal relish.
A SINGULAR EXPERIENCE "WITH A SPIRIT
CALLING HIMSELF AN EGYPTIAN.
BT CA-THERINE WOODEORDE.
A ladv who had been for upwards of a year, more or less, as
she believed, under the influence of a spirit who stated himself
to be an Egyptian, came to me to see if I could rid her of her
unwelcome visitor. He had presented himself through a
planchette, and given messages which she could style nothing
else but wicked, told falsehoods, threatened her with dire
troubles if she tried to get rid of him, and in various other
ways betrayed his quality. Although much drawn to seek
communion with her dear departed ones, she was repelled by
the dread of encountering her tormentor, who invariably pre¬
sented himself when she resorted to the planohettes. Indeed,
if friends consulted the wondrous little instrument in her
presence the Egyptian came, and always succeeded in disgust¬
ing them thoroughly. Clergymen being consulted naturally
enough ascribed the whole thing to the devil, and warned
them to beware, for Satan was undoubtedly let loose again
upon the earth. But some naughty children dare to think for
themselves; the voice of nature from the spirit-world is strong
and irresistible, and when loving spirits find a medial- relative,
June 5, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
267
they never fail to make impressions until their object of open¬
ing communion be attained. Hence the lady’s visit to me.
At our first sitting the Egyptian came, giving his usual
name,—which my visitor and I, for certain reasons, agreed to
change to “ Thoth.” It is needless to relate all that occurred
at our different sittings, in which our Egyptian mocked my
efforts to dislodge him, and seemed to hold his own in scornful
security. He had the appearance of much mental power
exercised audaciously and persistently in evil; but to me he
did not wear a hideous appearance. Ho only looked a tall
dark spirit, wearing robes; his eyes glittering, his coun¬
tenance sullenly serious, except when he indulged in mock¬
ing laughter, which he frequently did. I had much
mental, or perhaps I might say voiceless, conversation with
him, in which the attitude I bore towards him was one
of considerate regard and pity. I spoke to him reason-
ingly, even affectionately. No doubt my feelings were in¬
spired. I will not dwell upon the different arguments I used,
inspired by my guides, to induce him to change his manner of
life and seek to rise. But I felt after a time he was moved.
He relented, drew nearer to me, and seemed to regard me with
a deep interest. He seemed to search me, and at length a
humbled, grateful, softened feeling appeared to be creeping
over him, which he sullenly refused to yield to entirely. I
knew it was the loving sphere of my dear guides, as well as
the feelings they gave me towards him, which were gradually
influencing him.
The first day Thoth thoroughly softened; feeling my own
weakness and powerlessness, I had prayed earnestly to Christ
to remove him. I was at a little distance from my visitor,
who sat, her hand being controlled, making meaningless
scrawls. I saw Thoth at her back, and called him to come to
me. He came directly, as if moving almost without his own
volition, and stood respectfully before me. I knew he was
under a superior influence, which he seemed to care no longer
to resist. I reasoned with him; he looked at me sullenly for
a time, then fell on his -knees at my feet, and promised he
would reform. I feared deceit, and expected every moment he
would jump up and begin to laugh and jeer at me for being
misled by him. But he thanked me for speaking loving words,
and asked to kiss my hand. I gave it fearfully, but I felt
I was protected. He kissed my hand gratefully, and upon my
begging him to leave his victim he promised he would—that
he would never trouble her more.
I felt very joyous and thankful; told my visitor of the
occurrence which had passed between me and Thoth in perfect
silence, and we congratulated each other, hoping we should
never see him more.
When she repeated her visit next day to undergo mesmerism
and take a developing sitting, a voice told me, “ Thoth is
here!” I felt annoyed and distressed ; but, as I did not see
him, I let it pass, and busied myself with my patient. When,
after some three-quarters of an hour of mesmerising, she sat
down to write, a lovely, calm spirit in white bent over her—
her mother. I sat at her right hand quietly, and then, for
the first time, had a sight of Thoth, whose head was almost
at my right elbow, but I could not tell whether he knelt or
the rest of his body passed through the floor. Thoth was
there for a purpose, and he controlled me to write the fol¬
lowing singular confession, which was occasionally interrupted
by mental questions on my part.
“ Thoth is here 1” was written.
“ Have you anything to communicate?”
‘ ‘ I am a demon at heart 1”
I had always a fear Thoth was not in earnest, and suspected
deceit now, but I continued trying to draw him out, and asked,
“ What is it to be a demon at heart ?”
“ To be a demon at heart is to love evil better than good.”
“ Do you M
“ I always have.”
“ Now, I hope, you are about to change.”
My feelings towards Thoth had always been very patient
and kind; indeed, I was a little surprised that he never
seemed to excite in me feelings of repulsion. I felt, however,
that I owed this to the influence of my guides, and my whole
soul from the first had been filled with an earnest "pitying
desire to help him. Just at this moment, as if carried beyond
himself, he wrote energetically, ” Dear, dear woman, I thank
you much; I love you 1”
I shrank at this, but continued:—
“ 1 am glad you love me, Thoth, it will do you good. But I
want you to love my guide”
“ I do love your guide.”
“ Do you know him—do you see him,”
“ I do know him—I see him.”
” He will help you, Thoth, if you wish to rise out of your
present state, and will try to do so.”
“ I will try.”
il I am glad, Thoth. You give me great happiness; I am
sure you see that I am most anxious for your good, and I
hope you will try to keep your promises.”
In answer to my suspicions, however, came this:—
“You must not suppose I mean anything but what I say.”
My mind was full of questions, unuttered, regarding his an¬
tecedents and present condition, to which he now made reply,
reading them in my mind.
“ I am here to make a confession. I have been in this
world upwards of three thousand years of your time. I have
not progressed, because I was of a dark nature by choice. I
loved evil; that is, I loved a base selfish power, and was strong
enough in myself to secure a great deal of power on the earth
and in the spirit-world. The Great One you call God, and
whom I never believed in on earth, leaves all spirits free to
make for themselves any life or happiness they choose, conse¬
quently, I made for myself such a life and happiness as pleased
me, and I did not believe in Him. I believed in men and
spirits, because I knew they existed. I also believed in the
power of those mightier than I; and those I hated, and cir¬
cumvented when I could. I escaped from their control or
power, as I thought, always; but I know I have always been
compelled to yield to some superior power, in spite of myself,
which I now suppose was the Divine Spirit, or His ministers ;
but that is the same thing, because His Spirit flows through
them, and they are one with Him.”
The thought here came into my head that Thoth was
inspired to say this.
“I am not inspired with these thoughts,” he wrote in¬
stantly ; “ they have been obtained. I am consulting my own
powers of reasoning—my own mind-life alone. I know these
things. Your guides do not inspire me, that I am aware of,
with these ideas. I want to tell you more.”
“ Go on, Thoth.! ”
“ I wish to say that I am a stubborn one. It is not easy to
change a nature that for three thousand years has grown
wrong,—in opposition to the spirit of harmony which sways
the heavens.”
“ Do you ever see the angels ? ”
1 Oh, yes! I know the appearance and the influence of
those you call angels. I have laughed often at them; and
preferred my own way, because it was more congenial, easier,
sweeter, better to me. The other way would have troubled
me : I did not wish to go so far back to mend my ways. I am
beginning now, though, fascinated by the power of pure love
you have about you. You are the first woman who ever
showed a real, tender, loving feeling towards me. If I ever
loved a woman (and I have thought I loved many, but I now
see it was not love), it was that I desired to prey upon them,
to make them slaves. I had many on earth; I was a gross,
cruel beast,—a demon always. I worshipped wickedness, for
I knew no other form of power, and I lived for power only.
I have been as a spirit the tempter, the demon, the devil for
ages. It was a pleasure to me to bend men and women to my
wicked will: it was the exercise of p’ower.”
A fear here crept over me that perhaps the control would
injure me.
“ I will not hurt you; and when Sciros says you have been
controlled by me long enough, I will leave you. But I must
make a kind of confession, for the good of others as well as
myself. And they tell me if I wish to reform and to ascend
into glory, I must work for men whom I before tried to enslave
and injure. You do not yet believe me true. I will give you
a sign, a pledge of my integrity. I will bring you a blue ibis,
and it shall be my promise to reform.”
Very soon a blue bird of the stork kind stood at my side.
I did not at the moment remember the form of the ibis, and
I do not know the natural colour of that bird. But this bird
was of a lovely pure blue colour, and as I looked at it, it
lifted its short wings flutteringly, and took a few steps on its
long legs, and was as natural and happy to all appearance as
a bird could be. I was very much pleased, and thanked
Thoth, and told him I would indeed believe him true when 1 saw
the blue ibis. The ibis approached me, and thrust its beak
lovingly under my arm, and into my hand, as if for food. I
felt there was the agony of a deep sorrow creeping over Thoth.
I felt he suffered, and he controlled me to write again almost
convulsively—“ Forgive! Forgive ! Tell your friend I re¬
pent ! ”
I told her, and she gave her forgiveness in kindly words.
268
THE SPIRITUALIST.
•Tune 5,1874
“You know not,” lie wrote, “what it is to wring these words
from me ; I mean it; it is beginning I A hell I will endure if
needful. At last the spark has been fired. The voice of love
which I have resisted all these ages at last I have heeded.
I am to become an angel then ! And you have touched me
in the right place. You are Thoth’s saviour.”
Thoth now left us, saying he would come again, and the
blue ibis disappeared.
A few nights subsequently at my circle, I was controlled by
a spirit whose influence I felt to be saddening. In a short
time the spirit spoke, and begged in eloquent terms the prayers
of the assembled circle. The words are now given me again
by one of my guides.
“Prayl pray for one who never prayed; who never knew
the true God, who never worshipped. Pray for light to his
soul; for elevation, purification. God is merciful; He has
pardoned ; but the long, weary road of return from evil must
be journeyed o’er, and your prayers will aid. The life must
be re-lived: the fight must be fought of resistance to old habits
which have fixed themselves in the soul, and deformed it. The
whole nature is corrupt, it must be healed, and made anew;
this will entail dire suffering. Your prayers will be as balm
to gaping wounds ; as dew to the thirsty plant; as water to the
weary traveller in the desert; music to my ears; like strong
waves upon whose crests the storm-driven barque is lighted
safely to security and rest.
“ I am an Egyptian. Upwards of three thousand years ago
I lived upon this earth. I lived for self, power, and dominion.
I believed in nothing else, and as a spirit I have lived for the
same, and I have always had it. Others more powerful,
angels you call them, have at times overcome me, and I have
been driven from my haunts on earth, where I tempted, and
tormented mortals, to inhabit lower abodes. Enraged I sank
before their power, and hated them for it.
“ On earth I delighted in human suffering: I loved to tor¬
ture. I had many wives and concubines: I had many slaves,
and frequently have I driven the enslaved Israelites to their
tasks with the scourge.
“ Who was my king ? I care not to remember. I hated
him, because he was more powerful than I. I am here to beg
your prayers, to humble myself before you, and to confess; not
to be questioned. You know not what I have to endure ; what
I do endure. It is a release to me for a time to be here in the
sphere of the medium. An experience of bliss compared
with what I have to suffer, that is accorded to me in mercy
because I bent before the angelic power of the love she ex¬
tended to me to save me. She has saved me, she has won
me. In my long probation, my long struggle to earn those
heavenly gifts of spirit I have all along despised, when my
spirit is wearied in resisting evil inclinations, the remembrance
of those moments I have passed with her in your circle will
return to me, to cheer and encourage, to remind -me what
heavenly happiness is.
“ Still you question. I cannot know all I may have to endure.
Myself will be my greatest torment. I must stand face to face
with the hideousness of myself, as seen in the light of heaven.
I must retrace all the steps of my existence back to infancy,
when I shall be purified, innocent.
“ I have seen the one you call Christ. He is a glorious
angel, of almost unlimited power. To Him I owe "the blessing
of being called to the medium. Perhaps from His high place
He saw I was ready; I know not. I knew Him on earth.
I was one of His demon-tormentors from the spirit world. I
hated Him, and rejoiced over His sufferings; and this is the
return He makes. Oh, God, how great is Thy love, when
thus it shines forth through thy ministers 1
“ Oh, pray that I fail not, that I falter not. I thank you for
your gentle kindness, and the promises you make to remember
me in your prayers. I am now recalled. I will visit the
medium again,—you may hear from me again.”
Thoth here retired to give place to other controlling spirits.
I have since occasionally seen the blue ibis. It is the em¬
bodiment to me of Thoth’s grateful remembrance, and a
pledge of his well doing.
May, 1874.
The price of The Spiritualist will he reduced to twopence
the week after next.
Mb. Geeald Massey reached Liverpool from America in
the Java last week, and is now at home at Wards Hurst,
Hertfordshire.
Ie Mr. T. Hudson sincerely regrets his past misdeeds, he
should reveal the names of his accomplices to the National
Association.
A SPIRITUALISTIC HOTEL.
London Society has behaved in a very honourable
manner of late, in publishing much truthful infor¬
mation about Spiritualism. In addition, Mrs. Ross-
Church (Florence Marry at) is publishing a novel month
by month in its pages, written with much talent, and
telling not a little about the nature of Spiritual phe¬
nomena.
The heroine of the tale is anything but one of the
usual milk-and-water characters, but has a mind of her
own, as evidenced in the following quotation:—
*? I have tried France and Germany, Belgium and Italy, and
I have always been glad to return home again. It would en¬
tirely depend——”
“ On what ?”
“ On whether I was allowed to have my own way in every¬
thing—to be free as air and unguarded as sunshine—or walked
out and walked in again at stated times like a well-cared-for
child. I hate to be looked after, and watched and protected!
I like to take care of myself—to do as I choose—to have my
own friends, my own opinions, my own plans. I detest the
artificial life we lead. I rebel against all the rules of decorum.
I should like to take the exigencies of society, and smash
their heads against a wall; I am a woman; and when I am
not allowed to behave as a woman, I behave as less.”
And Miss West-Norman, quite led away from her original
subject by the proximity of the Earl, looks round the assembly
with a heated face, that is not entirely devoid of fear lest she
may have gone too far.
“ My dear girl! what an extraordinary time you have
chosen to air these shocking principles of yours,” titters Mrs.
West, as, with secret delight, she views the dismayed look on
Lord Valence’s countenance.
“Both unseasonable ^hd unreasonable,” murmurs Mr.
Mildmay disapprovingly, which incites her on to fresh dis¬
order.
“ I only say what I mean, Guardy; and I don’t care who
hears it. Why should women be debarred from so many of
the privileges you male creatures accord to yourselves ? Why
shouldn’t we travel, and go to parties and theatres alone ; and
ride on horseback, and knock about the world as men do,
without being for ever dependent on chaperons and escorts ?
Are we not just as well able to take care of ourselves as you are ?
Could we get into more scrapes, or better play the fool, than
most of the young men of the present day ? I doubt it ?”
The following description of a regular seance, also
introduced into the novel, has given the readers of
London Society some useful information:—
A SEANCE WITH A TEANCE MEDIUM.
It was a large saloon, fully lighted, and freely open to the
air, with a marble floor, a heavy table, and some dozen chairs.
When the visitors had assembled (there were only five besides
Borghesa and myself), the clairvoyante came in, and the doors
were closed and fastened. Bianca was a young woman of
perhaps five-and-twenty ; small, not at all pretty, and rather
sickly in appearance,. Apparently she had no colleague or
assistant in her business, for of the few assembled Borghesa
knew the names, and no one else entered the saloon. She
bowed to us all in turn, and then, taking a chair at the head
of the table, motioned us to be also seated. I sat down oppo¬
site to her, and scarcely took my eyes off her face, which
struck me as strangely emotionless and indifferent to what was
about to happen. In a few minutes her eyes closed. She
leaned back in her chair; a few convulsive shivers passed
over her frame; her face looked pained; she raised her hand
as though to keep off something that was oppressing her.
Then the look of trouble gradually cleared away; her eyes
opened brightly; she sat upright, with a broad smile upon
her face, and a determined, manly air about her, and com¬
menced to speak volubly in German, with a deep bass voice.
I was astounded. I had never been witness to anything of
the kind before, and I could notbeheve but that it was trickery.
The woman was a ventriloquist—there was no doubt of that—
and she played her part extremely well: but it was too undis¬
guised an imposition to deceive any one. It surprised me,
however, to see one of our company, on hearing the deep
German voice, start up with all the alacrity of one who recog¬
nises the tones of a familiar friend; and, grasping the hand of
June 5, 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
269
Bianca, enter into an eager and animated conversation with
the influence that was supposed to possess her.
“ My friend!” he exclaimed, in his own language, and with
tears standing in his eyes ; “ my good friend Bolder, have you
really returned to speak to me? Ah! how long is the time
since we parted ! how good is heaven] This is worth every¬
thing in the world beside.”
The man seemed perfectly in earnest. He wept, he laughed,
he talked all at once, whilst the medium’s hand was grasped in
his, and, in the same mellow, German voice, she continued to ■
pour out what appeared to be confidences to him, to which he
responded with every demonstration of belief.
But I set him down as a confederate of Bianca’s ; or, at all
events, some weak-minded creature who would credit anything
a stronger organisation set before him as the truth.
The other visitors, however, did not seem to share my in¬
credulity ; on the contrary, as soon as the bass voice had
ceased to sound, and Bianca had sunk back, apparently ex¬
hausted, in her chair, they pressed eagerly around her to
demand if no spirit friend of theirs was present and willing to
communicate with them.
“ Hush!” she said, in her own weak tones, but with her
eyes still closed. ” Some one is speaking to me. Hush ?”
[Now I should have premised that my name was unknown
to any one there except Borghesa, and of my antecedents even
he knew nothing. We had made acquaintance with each other
without the ceremony of a formal introduction ; and though
be was, of course, aware of my title and family, of my father’s
death, my lonely youth, or my future prospects, not a syllable
had passed between us.
Nor had we given our names on entering Bianca’s saloon.
The ordeal was unnecessary, and Borghesa had begged me, as
a precautionary measure, to remain incognito.]
“ Hush 1” said the medium. “ Some one is speaking to
me. Hush !’’
I leaned forward curiously, expecting to receive another
proof of her ventriloquial skill; but she continued to speak
in her own voice :
‘‘.A man—tall, and somewhat old-looking, but not with
years,” she said, waving her hand towards the place where I
sat. “ He had much care and grief before he passed away.
His face is serious, but calm. He has grey eyes, a straight
nose, a mouth sweet but feeble; hair slightly grey. There is a
scar across his right temple; but the hair conceals it. It looks
as though it had been done from a heavy fall. Ah ! he
smiles. He has lost a tooth in front! He raises his
arm! He has a circle marked upon it, drawn round the
letter ‘ S.’ He—.
“ Good God, womanI exclaimed, startingup and splutter¬
ing in my broken Italian. “ Do you know of whom you speak ?
do you know that you are describing my ”
“ Hush, Valence 1 Do be quiet!” entreated Borghesa, as he
forced me down into my chair again. ‘‘Don’t give her any
clue, or you will spoil everything.”
There was no need for him to use violence. • The excite¬
ment was so great, I was no longer able to stand. I cowered
in my seat, trembling like a child.
“ He wishes to write,” continued Bianca calmly. “ He says
my tongue cannot frame the English language. Give me pen
and paper ?”
The materials which were on the table were pushed towards
her, and for a few moments nothing was heard but the scratch¬
ing of the pen as it traversed the paper.
“ Who is here by the name of Bernard ?” said Bianca, as she
ceased writing. “ It is a good name—a saint’s name; but I
can read nothing more. These are English words. I think.
Ah ! he points to you, signor,” she added, addressing myself.
“ The paper is then for you! I am very glad.”
I stretched opt my hand mechanically for what she gave me,
and turned it to the light. On it was written, in my
father’s bold, irregular writing, though somewhat shakily
transcribed:
* ‘ Bernard, my son; I am always with you! I long to speak
to you! Pray more—hope more! Have faith and patience,
and I will come to you. Life is dark at present; but in the
future a great light shines. From Valence, your father.”
ift * % H* H* $
*J Who wrote it?”
“Is it satisfactory ?”
“ Can you recognise the hand ?”
“ Have you had a convincing proof ?”
They poured the questions upon me like hail—idle questions
to satisfy their own curiosity, whilst I—I felt as though I were
stifling.
“Borghesa, my dearfellow ; let me go !” I stammered. “-I
have no wish to disturb you, or break up the evening ; but,
for God’s sake, let me get away from this place, and out into
the open air, or I shall faint 1”
HUMBOLDT ON SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., has favoured us by
forwarding the following letter for publication
New Braunfels, Texas, April 18,1874.
William CrooJces, Esq., London.
Sir,—As I take the greatest interest in your in¬
vestigations of the so-called spiritual manifestations,
and admire the high moral courage that enters into the
same contest with the scientific world, as my great,
countryman, Carl v. Reichenbach, did years ago, I
trust you will kindly excuse the liberty I take in call¬
ing your attention to a remark made by Alexander v.
Humboldt in regard to those manifestations. The
authentic reference to his words is to be found in an
essay published by Carl v., Reichenbach under the title,'
OdiscTie Begebenheiten zu Berlin in den Jahren 1861
1862. Berlin: Verlag von E. H. Schneider. On
page 57 the author, says: “In the year 1853 A. v.
Humboldt sat at the royal table in Berlin. Close to
him were General Bertrand and Lieut.-General Count
v. Liittichau. The latter authorises me with reference
to his person and name to publish some words from
Humboldt’s mouth. Bertrand had mentioned the table
moving, and similar things which were then new*
After the conversation had continued for some time on
these topics, Humboldt closed with the words: “ Die
Thatsachen stehen unneigbar, die Erlddung bleibt der
Wissenschaft schuldig.” “The facts are undeniable;
to science belongs the explanation.”
As far as I can learn, there exist no English transla¬
tions of Reichenbach’s many Odic works, except his
Dynamics and the Odic Magnetic Letters, both of. which
are his first publications, and of secondary importance
only; - while his paramount work, Der sensitive Mensck
and the complemental treatise Die odische Lohe, but
little known in Germany, and seem to be entirely un?
known in England; for not even the report of the
London Dialectical Society in its list of works mentions
them.—I have the honour to be your obedient servant,
R. Wipprecht.
The National Association of Spiritualists will probably
try and enter into some arrangement with Mr. Gerald Massey,
for the delivery of a few lectures by him on “ Spiritualism in
America.’]
St. John’s Association oe Spiritualists.—The fifth
annual meeting of this Association was held at Goswell-hall,
Goswell-road, on Thursday, the 28th ult. The state¬
ment made by Mr. it. Pearce, the honorary secretary,
showed that the society’s position had much improved in all
respects. It is now out of debt, and has sixty-six members.
The meetings held on Thursday evenings during the past
twelve months were 38 seances, with an average attendance of
40 persons; four conferences and one tea meeting.; total, 43
meetings. . The Sunday evening services at Goswell-hall were
commenced on the 21st September, and continued down to
the present time, 36 addresses having been given by Dr.
Sexton, Mr. Morse, Mr. Everitt, Mr.. Bullock, Miss Keeves,
Eev. F. B. Young, and others. The total receipts during the
year had been £47 19s. 7d., and the expenditure £4.9 14s. lOd.
The following were elected as officers for the ensuing year:—
President, Mr. Barber; Treasurer, Mr. .Bullock ; Librarians,
Mr. Cain and Mr. Ed. Bullock; Secretary, Mr. W. Cotter.
Qommittee, Mrs. Barber, Miss Barber, Mr. J. Hawkins, Mr.
Kichards, and Mr. White. The question of becoming affiliated
with the British National Association was brought before the
members by Mr. Pearce, and, after some discussion, it was
decided to take no steps in the matter at present.
270
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 5, 1874.
THE LAST OF “ KATIE KING.”
THE PHOTOGBAPHING OE “KATIE KING” BY THE AID OE
THE EIiECTEIC LIGHT.
BY WILLIAM CROOKES, E.B.S.
Haying taken a very prominent part of late at Miss
Cook’s seances, and having been very successful in
taking numerous photographs of Katie King by the
aid of the electric light, I have thought that the publi¬
cation of a few of the details would be of interest to
the readers of The Spiritualist.
During the week before Katie took her departure she
gave seances at my house almost nightly, to enable
me to photograph her by artificial light. Five
complete sets of photographic apparatus were accord¬
ingly fitted up for the purpose, consisting of five
cameras, one of the whole-plate size, one half-plate,
one quarter-plate, and two binocular stereoscopic
cameras, which were all brought to bear upon Katie
at the same time, on each occasion on which she fetood
for her portrait. Five sensitising and fixing baths were
used, and plenty of plates were cleaned ready for use
in advance, so that there might be ho hitch or delay
during the photographing operations, which were per¬
formed by myself, aided by one assistant.
My library was used as a dark cabinet. It has folding
doors opening into the laboratory; one of these doors
was taken off its hinges and a curtain suspended in itg
place to enable Katie to pass in and out easily. Those
of our friends who were present were seated in the
laboratory facing the curtain, and the cameras were
placed a little behind them, ready to photograph
Katie when she came outside, and to photograph any¬
thing also inside the cabinet, whenever the curtain was
withdrawn for the purpose. Each evening there were
three or four exposures of plates in the five cameras,
giving at least fifteen separate pictures at each seance;
some of these were spoilt in the developing, and some
in regulating the amount of light. Altogether I have
forty-four negatives, some inferior, some indifferent,
and some excellent.
Katie instructed all the sitters but myself to keep
their seats and to keep conditions, but for some time
past she has given me permission to do what I liked,
to touch her, and to enter and leave the cabinet almost
whenever I pleased. I have frequently followed her into
the cabinet, and have sometimes seen her and her medium
together, but most generally I have found nobody but
the entranced medium lying on the floor, Katie and her
white robes having instantaneously disappeared.
During the last six months Miss Cook has been a
frequent visitor at my house, remaining sometimes a
week at a time. She brings nothing with her but a
little hand-bag, not locked; during the day she is con¬
stantly in the presence of Mrs. Crookes, myself, or
some other member of my family, and, not sleeping by
herself, there is absolutely no opportunity for any pre¬
paration even of a less elaborate character than would
be required for enacting “ Katie King.” I prepare and
arrange my library myself as the dark- cabinet, and
usually after Miss Cook has been dining and conversing
with us, and scarcely out of our sight for a minute,
she walks direct into the cabinet, and I, at her request,
lock its second door, and keep possession of the key all
through the seance; the gas is then turned out, and
Miss Cook is left in darkness.
On entering the cabinet Miss Cook lies down upon
the floor, with her head on a pillow, and is soon en¬
tranced. During the photographic seances Katie
muffled her medium’s head up in a shawl, to prevent
the light from falling upon her face. I frequently drew
the curtain on one side when Katie was standing near,
and it was a common thing for the seven or eight
of us in the laboratory to see Miss Cook and Katie at
the same time, under the full blaze of the electric light.
We did not on these occasions actually see the face of
the medium because of the shawl, but we saw her
hands and feet, we saw her move uneasily under the
influence of the intense light, and we heard her moan
occasionally. I have one photograph of the two
together, but Katie is seated in front of Miss Cook’s
head.
During the time I have taken an active part in these
seances, Katie’s confidence in me gradually grew,
until she refused to give a seance unless I took charge
of the arrangements. She said she always wanted me
to keep close to her, and near the cabinet, and I found
that after this confidence was established, and she was
satisfied I would not break any promise I might make
to her, the phenomena increased greatly in power and
tests were freely given that would have been unobtain¬
able had I approached the subject in another manner.
She often consulted me about persons present at the
seances, andi where they should be placed, for of late
she had become very nervous, in consequence of certain
ill-advised suggestions that force should be employed
as an adjunct to more scientific modes of research.
One of the most interesting of the pictures is one in
which I am standing by the side of Katie; she has her
bare foot upon a particular part of the floor. After¬
wards, I dressed Miss Cook like Katie, placed her and
myself in exactly the same position, and we were pho¬
tographed by the same cameras, placed exactly as in
the other experiment, and illuminated by the same light.
When these two pictures are placed over each other,
the two photographs of myself coincide exactly as
regards stature, &c., but Katie is half a head taller
than Miss Cook, and looks a big woman in comparison
with her. In the breadth of her face, in many of the
pictures, she differs essentially in size from her medium,
and the photographs show several other points of dif¬
ference.
But photography is as inadequate to depict the per¬
fect beauty of Katie’s face, as words are powerless to
describe her charms of manner. Photography may,
indeed, give a map of her countenance; but how can it
reproduce the brilliant purity of her complexion, or the
ever-varying expression of her most mobile, features,
now overshadowed with sadness when relating some of
the bitter experiences of her past life, now smiling with
all the innocence of happy girlhood when she had col¬
lected my children round her and was amusing them
by recounting anecdotes of her adventures in India.
“ Bound her she made an atmosphere of life,
The very air seemed lighter from her eyes,
They were so soft and beautiful, and rife
With all we can imagine of the skies;
Her overpowering presence made you feel
It would not be idolatry to kneel.”
Having seen so much of Katie lately, when she has
been illuminated by the electric light, I am enabled to
add to the points of difference between her and her
medium which I mentioned in a former article. I have
the most absolute certainty that Miss Cook and Katie
are two separate individuals so far as their bodies are
^concerned. Several little marks on Miss Cook’s face
JtrNB 5, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
271
are absent on Katie's. Miss Cook’s hair is so dark
a brown as almost to appear black; a lock of Katie’s,
which is now before me, and which she allowed me to
cut from her luxuriant tresses, having first traced it
up to the scalp and satisfied myself that it actually
grew there, is africh golden auburn.
On one evening I timed Katie’s pulse. It beat
steadily at 75, whilst Miss Cook’s pulse a little time
after, was going at its usual rate of 90. On applying
my ear to Katie’s chest I could hear a heart beating
rythmically inside, and pulsating even more steadily
than did Miss Cook’s heart when she allowed me to try
a similar experitoent after the seance. Tested in the
same way Katie’s lungs were found to be sounder
than her medium’s, for at the time I tried my experi¬
ment Miss Cook was under medical treatment for a
severe cough.
Your readers may be interested in having Mrs. Koss
Church’s and your own accounts of the last appearance
of Katie, supplemented by my own narrative, as far as I
can publish it. When the time came for Katie to take
her farewell I asked that she would let me see the last
of her. Accordingly when she had called each of the
company up to her and had spoken to them a few words
in private, she gave some general directions for the
future guidance and protection of Miss Cook. From
these, which were taken down in shorthand, I quote
the following: “ Mr. Crookes has done very well
throughout, and I leave Florrie with the greatest con¬
fidence in his hands, feeling perfectly sure that he will
not abuse the trust I place in him. He can act in any
emergency better than I can myself, for he has more
strength.” Having concluded her directions, Katie
invited me into the cabinet with her, and allowed me
to remain there to the end.
After closing the curtain she conversed with me for
some time, and then walked across the room to where
Miss Cook was lying senseless on the floor. Stooping
over her Katie touched her, and said, “Wake up,
Florrie, wake up! I must leave you now.” Miss
Cook then woke and tearfully entreated Katie to
stay a little time longer. “My dear, I can’t, my
work is done. God bless you,” Katie replied, and then
continued speaking to Miss Cook. For several minutes
the two were conversing with each other, till at last
Miss Cook’s tears prevented her speaking. Following
Katie’s instructions I then came forward to support Miss
Cook, who was falling on to the floor, sobbing hysteri¬
cally. I looked round, but the white robed Katie had
gone. As soon as Miss Cook was sufficiently calmed
a light was procured and I led her out of the cabinet.
The almost daily seances with which Miss Cook has
lately favoured me have proved a severe tax upon her
strength, and I wish to make the most public acknow¬
ledgment of the obligations I am under to her for her
readiness to assist me in my experiments. Every test
that I have proposed she has at once agreed to submit to
with the utmost willingness; she is open and straight¬
forward in speech, and I have never seen anything ap¬
proaching the slightest symptom of a wish to deceive.
Indeed I do not believe she could carry on a deception
if she were to try, and if she did she would certainly
be found out very quickly, for such a line of action is
altogether foreign to her nature. And to imagine that
an innocent school girl of fifteen should be able to con¬
ceive and then successfully carry out for three years so
gigantic an imposture as this, and in that time should
submit tto any test which might be imposed on her,
should bear the strictest scrutiny, should be willing to be
searched at any time, either before or after a seance,
and should meet with even better success in my own
house than at that of her parents, knowing that she
visited me with the express object of submitting to
strict scientific tests,—to imagine, I say, the “Katie
King ” of the last three years to be the result of im¬
posture,—does more violence to one’s reason and
common sense than to believe her to be what she herself
affirms.
It would not be right for me to conclude this article
without also thanking Mr. and Mrs. Cook for the great
facilities they have given me to carry on these observa¬
tions and experiments.
My thanks and those of all Spiritualists are also due
to Mr. Charles Blackburn for the generous manner in
which he has made it possible for Miss Cook to devote
her whole time to the development of these manifesta¬
tions, and latterly to their scientific examination.
THE LAST ILLNESS OF JUDGE EDMONDS.
As all matters connected with the latter days of Judge
Edmonds will, no doubt, be regarded by many readers
of this journal with much interest we give the following
extracts from a second letter addressed to Mr. Benjamin
Coleman by the judge’s daughter. Miss Laura Edmonds,
whose mediumship helped materially to establish her
father’s faith at the commencement of his enquiries :—
“ As I have already told you his sufferings were very
great during this last attack, which commenced on the
21st of March, and from the first he said to me, ‘ Let us
look calmly on this state of things. I shall never re¬
cover, and I am glad of it, for I want to go. Life has
been more hard to bear of late. I suppose it is well
to have this torture, it is purifying my spirit. ... If I
ever doubted the efficacy of prayer I can do so no
longer.’ Calmly, patiently, he looked forward to the
change. His intellect was clear and vigorous to the
end. ... As Easter morning dawned bis poor body
was suddenly relieved of the pain he had been suffering,
he lifted his eyes, and a look came into them of intense
love, as if he had seen all he had hoped for, a reflec¬
tion of light, almost divine, shone in his eyes of glad¬
ness and peace, and then slowly closing them he was
gone. We who are left are the sufferers. For him we
could not grieve, so glorious, so happy was the end.
Dr. John F. Gray, his friend of 30 years, and another,
a friend of his boyhood, both believing as he did, were
with him at the last.
“ Will you be so good as to say to my father’s
friends in England, that the testimonial was hung
up in his library, and the books and photographs
had a special place, and were enjoyed by him
daily up to the last fortnight of his life, They are now
consigned to the care of Mrs. A. B. Hall, of Boston, for
safe keeping, as our home is broken up, and will be for
some time to come. Mrs. Hall was a dear friend of my
father’s and was with him in many of his early ex¬
periences in Spiritualism.
“ As to the books you speak of, I know he contem¬
plated sending them to your care, but I am not aware
that he had commenced any preparation of them, as he
was not well, and very much engaged in his profession
up to the time he received the testimonial. But I will
enquire of a J. Davis if he had ordered them, and see to
their being sent if such were the case. I hope to see
you in England in the autumn.”
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 5, 1874.
^nettg.
TWO SAINT’S DATS,
- In Memoriam. I
O. V. T. born June 3rd., 1838, passed away Feb. 12,1864,
E. D., bom June 4th., 1831,"passed away July, 1872.
To K. P.
Two Saint's Days! Thine to-day, to-morrow, mine:
Two broken lives on earth ; yet fancy fond
Loves to imagine them, as now they stand,
With full unfoldment in the World beyond.
A reckless babe to-day; anon a boy;
Then grown to battle in the world of men;
A centre fixed for others’ love and joy,
Diffusing happy influence; and then—
Then, after Nazareth, Calvary. Such is life,
As here we name this span of fleeting breath—
A little mingled scene of peace and strife
Quick speeding to its climax—so-called Death!
Not Death, but truest Life: not even Sleep !
Life, than this poor existence far more grand.
While here below we earthbound mourners weep,
Our loved ones live and work in Spirit-land:
Work with us, on us. Such our creed to-day,
Becoming daily more our Pearl of Price,
Breathed, we believe and who shall say us nay ?—
From our dear Household Saints in Paradise.
“.Leave all and follow Me!’’ So spake of old
A silvery voice along the Sacred Lake:
Leave earthly hopes, ambitions, gauds and gold,
For Jesus and the Besurrection’s sake.
Thus seems an inner voice to whisper me—
A still small voice, this Pentecostal* morn;
So plain, I know the accents it must be
Of our lost loves to better life reborn.
*Whit-Tuesday, 1873. MATTRIOI! DAVIES, D.D.
[Oreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed, to those of this journal and its readers.]
MB. SEBJEANT COX ON “ INCABNATION.”
Sib,—I have butfone desire, to ascertain the very truth. I
am at all times anxious to adapt theory to facts, not to square
facts to theory. But the first business and duty of investiga¬
tors of science, is to see that the facts are proved by sufficient
evidence.
The amount of evidence required to establish a fact varies
according to the nature of the fact to be proved. If it be a
probable fact, by which I mean such a fact as according to
human experience is likely to occur, comparatively slight proof
maybe accepted. But the amount of proof to be demanded
will increase in precise proportion to the lessened probability
of the asserted fact, and if that fact is not only out of experience,
but opposed to it, and still more, if it be contrary to all
known or even imagined natural laws, the most perfect proof,
based upon the best evidence of the most indisputable
character must be produced, before credence can be given to it,
or fairly asked for it.
This proposition will not,I presume, be disputed by the most
unreasoning of your readers. You, at least, as professing to
take a scientific view of the phenomena of Spiritualism, will,
I am sure, readily accept it, and with this rule of reason and
science to guide us, I ask you calmly and dispassionately
to review with me the evidence upon which the astounding fact
is asserted of the incarnation of spirits, as exhibited in the
instances of the so-called “Annie Morgan” and “Florence
Maples.” Let us, first, clearly comprehend what is the fact
asserted and to be proved. -
It is that the medium is placed alone in a dark room, or
cabinet or recess, wearing her ordinary clothes with her hair
dressed a-la-mode, a curtain being drawn between this room
or recess, the spectators sitting in the room on the other side
of the curtain, that room being sufficiently lighted to enable
them to see distinctly whatsoever occurs there. But after
more or less of interval, varying from a quarter to half an
hour, a form comes from behind the curtain into the room
where the spectators sit, clothed with a white head-dress and
in a white robe that falls to the feet. This form is almost if
not completely a fac simile of the medium who was placed
behind the curtain, in face, in figure, in movement. It is no
phantom, not even the crust of a human form, but a perfect
human body, having so far as the senses can show us, all the
shape and organs and functions of a woman. It has flesh, and
bones, and hair, and nails, and saliva, and blood, and veins, and
a beating heart, and a perspiring skin. Moreover it has a brain
and a nerve structure obedient to that brain. And that brain is
an educated brain, and has received an English education,
for it converses in English. Nor does the wonder' end here.
It has learned to play the piano, which is a mechanical as well
as an intellectual performance, only to be acquired by practice.
This form talks the language of bur own time, plays and sings,
jests, and is quick at repartee. Talking involves the possession
of the entire apparatus needful to that process; hence, though
we cannot see or feel them, we know that there must be lungs
and the complicated mechanism of the trachea, and this
implies blood, and blood implies a heart and muscles to move
it, and nerves to set the muscles in action.' It is a solid form,
for Mr. Crookes has .more than once, by permission, put his
arms round its waist, and it is a warm, womanly form, with
feelings, for it kisses and is kissed. According to some reports,
it eats solid food, but whether it digests what it eats is not
known. But a query here suggests itself; what, when it is
re-incarnated, becomes of the food so eaten ?
This is what the spectators see, and if they had never heard
otherwise, they would undoubtedly come to the unanimous and
unhesitating conclusion that the form thus seen before the
curtain, so closely resembling the medium who went behind the
curtain, was that medium in propria persona.
But it is asserted that in this the spectator is mistaken; that
the form he sees and touches is not the medium, but another
being; that although so like one to the other, they are not the
same ; that at the very time the form is before the curtain,
walking, talking, playing, the medium is behind the curtain,
in a condition of unconscious trance, dressed in gown and
hair precisely as when she was placed there.
It may be answered that if this be so, some other human
being is personating the medium before Lthe curtain. If not
this, what is it ?
And this is the explanation given: “ The form you see, hear,
touch, that precisely resembles a human being in shape and
structure, and differs in no perceptible particular from other
human beings, is no humah being at all, but a spirit that pre¬
sents itself in perfect human form.”
This is an astounding answer, not |to be accented on any
mere assertion, and the amazed spectator demands the proof
of it, and the obvious method of proof is by conclusive evi¬
dence—by which I mean the best evidence that can be given—
that the fact, seemingly incredible as it is, is nevertheless true.
Now the only conclusive evidence in such a case, and that
which alone can overcome the apparently overwhelming
evidence of the senses, and conclusions of reason and science
against this alleged incarnation of a spirit, is the exhibition of
the medium and the form coexisting at the same moment, the
one on the one side of the curtain, the other on the other side
of it, to be witnessed by several spectators at the same time,
and in circumstances and under conditions [that preclude
deception by the medium, or delusion of the senses by the
spectators.
The assertors of this marvel of marvels say that they have
obtained such evidence, and it is this evidence that I am about
to review.
I must preface it by stating that I do so with a purely
judicial mind, with no other desire than to discover the truth.
If I have any bias, it is from a most anxious desire I have that
the fact of spirit incarnation should prove to be true. No
greater joy could be given to me than to be convinced by con¬
clusive evidence that “ Katie ” and “ Florence,” or either of
them, are not Miss Cook nor Miss Showers. But it is not be¬
cause we earnestly desire [something to be true, that we are to
accept it on insufficient proof. Hundreds of your readers who
preserve their powers of perception and reason amid the
strange phenomena they^continually witness, will, I am con¬
fident, share my motives for insisting upon the best evidence
that can be given of the most wonderful fact the world has
ever known; and, let me add, the most important,—if it
be true.
As I have said, the best evidence is alone admissible in such
a case, and the best evidence would be that which the senses
of a sufficient number of spectators viewing at the same time,
in unequivocal circumstances, the medium and the spirit.
Fortunately such proof is easily to be had. It might be
obtained by the lifting of a curtain; all the spectators would
then see the medium and the form at the same moment, and
it is equally easy to assure themselves that the medium is
herself and no other.
I can find no evidence that this ample test has been tried.
The nearest approach to it is the report of Katie’s final seance
at page 258 of the Spiritualist, which states that “ the cur¬
tain was drawn back, and all could clearly see the sleeping
THE SPIBITUALIST.
273
June 5, 1874.
medium, who did not stir from her original position, but lay
quite still.” This appears at the first glance to be conclusive;
but what follows? “Her face,” says the report, “being
covered with a red shawl to keep the light from it.” May it
not have been to keep eyes from it ?*
If the face was hidden under a shawl the proof fails en¬
tirely, for it is impossible for any of the persons present to
say certainly that Miss Cook herself was lying there. All that
is proved by this experiment is that while a form precisely re¬
sembling Miss Cook in face and figure was outside the curtain,
a body wearing her dress, or a dress like hers, was lying inside
the curtain. But there is no proof whatever that it was Miss
Cook’s body. The concealment of the face by the shawl raises
indeed a very strong presumption to the contrary.
I observe, also, that you do not state where this remarkable
seance took place, for much of its value as evidence depends
upon the more or less of facility for observance that was either
provided or prevented. I must also remind you that when a
similar view of the medium shown with her face concealed was
thus reported by Mr. B. Coleman, in the Spiritualist of May
15, that “ both the living form of Miss Cook and the ma¬
terialised Katie were seen by Mr. Crookes, myself, and others
twice on the 9th day of May last,” yourself sensibly remarked
in an appended note, that “ as the face of the medium was not
visible on this occasion, we do not see that this was a test
manifestation”—nor would any other rational man. Yet is
this very test now advanced as the sole proof of Miss Cook’s
identity at the sitting on May 21st.
Mrs. Boss Church states that she went behind the curtain
at this sitting, and felt Miss Cook on the floor while Katie was
standing by her side. But what she felt was the body of a
living woman, doubtless the same body all had seen with the
face hidden in the shawl. The touch of her hand does not
carry the proof a step further than their eyes, and you, Mr.
Editor, have yourself declared that proof to be worthless.
Mr. Crookes states that he went behind the curtain in a
room in Miss Cook’s house (was the parting seance in this
same room?), and saw Katie and Miss Cook together. But
how ? Not by the light of a candle, but by that of a bottle of
phosphoric oil. Now, all who have seen objects by that light
know that it is exceedingly doubtful and deceptive. Not only
does it change the colour of objects, but it illuminates only a
small space at once, and nothing would be more easy and
probable than to mistake features seen by it. Mr. Crookes is
doubtless perfectly convinced that the form he saw by his
bottle upon the floor was that of Miss Cook ; but did he not
also see with the assumption on his mind that if any living
body was there it must be Miss Cook herself ? I am sure that
he would have based none of his admirable scientific discoveries
upon a view afforded only by his phosphoric bottle, and there¬
fore he will excuse me, and others who are in pursuit of the
very truth, from accepting that dubious light as decisive proof
in a discovery infinitely more wonderful and apparently im¬
possible. Certainly he would not have been content to use
the dim light of his bottle when it would have been equally
easy to use the sure light of a candle.
Mr. Dunphy’s evidence does not carry the case much
further. He did not see Miss Showers and Florence at the
same time. All it amounts to is, that he followed Florence so
quickly, that he does not conceive it to be possible that she
could have thrown herself into the chair and presented herself
there as Miss Showers. But this is a question of time and
circumstance, too undetermined to justify the acceptance of it
as proof of such a marvel, especially when it would have been
unequivocally proved by walking inside with a candle while
Florence was standing outside.
I must here apologise to Mr. Dunphy for having mistaken
for his Mr. Coleman’s statement, that he saw the medium with
her face concealed in her shawl.
But Mrs. Showers, who has witnessed the phenomena from
* If Mr. Serjeant pox desires to question the fact of materialisation in
snch a way as to avoid appearance of special pleading, why does he seize
for criticism a mere passage in a newspaper report, on which nobody
probably has ever based any opinion, instead of seizing the vital points?
For instance, why does he in criticising the testimony of Mr. Crookes
ignore that Mr. Crookes says he saw the faces of Miss Cook and Katie at
the same time ? Or why does he not try to invalidate the evidence given
by Mr. Varley's galvanometer, and the mathematics connected therewith?
Or why does he not now take up the example published on another page,
wherein Mr. Crookes testifies that he locked up one human being in the
shape of Miss Florrie Cook in his own library in his own house, and
shortly afterwards he and several other witnesses saw too living human
forms in that library, under the full blaze of the electric light. We, at the
time of writing it, knew the weak points to the physicist in the paragraph
quoted by Mr. Cox quite as well as he does, but in reporting seances say
what is seen, without turning to the right hand or to the left out of defer¬
ence to any non-Spiritualist.—Ed.
the beginning, and who can scarcely fail to know, has from
the first persistently asserted in writing and speech, by letter and
in conversation to myself and to others, that her own conviction
was that Florence was no other than Miss Showers herself in
a state of trance. Surely her testimony is of more worth than
that of all others combined, and was entirely confirmed by
my own experience.
The same doubts attach to all the other evidence. Not a
single witness beheld the medium and the spirit together by
the plain honest light of a candle. The proof was never given
to all the spectators at once. With the readiest means of per¬
fect truth, it is a strange fact that it has never been proffered.
Why not ? If it be said that the conditions of the proposed
tests were inconsistent with the manifestation, the answer is
obvious—this proof is not desired before the production of the
phenomenon, which it might conceivably prevent, but after
the phenomenon is produced, when nothing is needed but its
verification.
I turn now to the electrical test invented by Mr. Yarley and
tried by Mr. Crookes. I am not electrician enough to form an
opinion as to the validity of that test. It was tried by Mr.
Crookes with Miss Cook, and satisfied him that she was per¬
sonally within, while Katie was obviously without. He tried
it with Miss Showers, and he informed me that it failed. But
I must confess myself unable to comprehend how a perfect
test could fail. Either it proved Florence to be Miss Showers,
or it fails to prove that Miss Cook is not Katie. But in any
event I return to my argument, that indirect evidence cannot
and ought not to be accepted in such a case, when direct and
positive evidence is easily to be procured.
Such is, I believe, a fair statement of the case produced on
the part of those who affirm the fact of spirit incarnation. Is
it sufficient ? Would it satisfy any jury in England on a
charge of simple larceny ? Certainly not. How much less
can it be received to establish such an astounding fact as a
spirit eating, talking, laughing, jesting, kissing, and for all
practical purposes becoming a mortal again 1
I am aware that improbability is no answer to facts; but in
estimating the amount of evidence necessary to establish the
fact, we must take into account the circumstances that tell
against it, and therefore demand the more jealous scrutiny of
this investigation. Having witnessed this strange phenomenon,
I am bound to say that it is surrounded with extraordinary
features of doubt and suspicion. I will name some of them.
1. All the prescribed conditions are such as facilitate trickery,
if designed, and to prevent, and not to promote inquiry. Friends
are posted on either side of the curtain, as if to exclude a too
curious eye. If any strangers are present, hands are to be
heldi The singing usually invited diverts attention, and pre¬
vents the intent ear from perceiving movements behind the
curtain. The hand of the “ spirit ” is not to be held, only
opened to a hasty touch. Visitors not known to have the
firmest faith are placed in a semicircle, and conditioned not to
rush forward or grasp. A considerable time elapses before the
form appears. The sitting is not closed and the curtains
withdrawn so that all may see, for a long time after the form
has retired. None are admitted behind the curtain until the
most perfect confidence is placed in their previously assured
faith. Even the few thus favoured were not admitted at once,
but by slow degrees—thus far to-night—a little further
another night—as trial proved the extent of their inquisitorial
purposes or powers.
2. This unquestionable likeness of the form to the medium.
When I saw them they were not merely resemblances; they
were facsimiles. I had carefully noted the shape of the eye¬
brows, which cannot be altered, and they were the same in the
medium and the form. The hands were identical. The
movements of the body were precisely similar. Now what is
the answer to this most suspicious fact ? There is no escape
from it. Either the form is “ the double ” of the medium, or
it is another being. If the double of the medium, and the
substantial form is borrowed from the medium, the weight of
the substantial form must be so much taken from the weight
of the medium. If this were so, the medium must be a mere
shell, and must die. The theory of “ the double ” is there¬
fore exploded. But if Katie and Florence are distinct beings
from Miss Cook and Miss Showers—the forms of persons who
once lived—to wit, Annie Morgan and Florence Maples—and
whose atomic spirit structure is suddenly changed into mole¬
cular structure, how comes it that they precisely resemble
Miss Cook and Miss Showers? It would be a marvellous
coincidence if the real Annie Morgan claimed to have been a
facsimile of Miss Cook, and it would be a combination of coin¬
cidences almost amounting to impossibility, that Florence
274
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 5, 1874,
Maples should also bear an exact resemblance to Miss
Showers.
3. But the difficulties do not end there. Assuming the
forms to be Mesdames Morgan and Maples, who lived on
earth some years ago, and who ever since have been dwelling
in spirit land, how comes it that they think the thoughts and
speak the languages and have the manners of girls of the
year 1874, instead of the very different ideas, structure of
talk, and manners of our own time ? And, more than this,
why does Miss Maples play upon the piano tunes that have
been composed since her death, and sing songs of recent date,
instead of those that were known to her in life ? It might
have been thought that the best proof the two spirits could
have given of their identity would have been to present
themselves as they were in life, instead of appearing as the
mediums are.
I might fill many pages with similar doubts and difficulties,
but these will suffice to sustain my contention that the evi¬
dence as yet produced is wholly insufficient to be accepted as
proving the genuine incarnation of the asserted spirit forms.
It demands the withholding of credence until some more
satisfactory test is tried, such as the exhibition of medium
and spirit together in full light and to all eyes, or marking
the medium with burnt cork upon the forehead, or throw¬
ing a strong scent upon the spirit, or any one of the many
other devices by which identity could be proved beyond
question, and which could not possibly interfere with the
manifestation.
I am confident tjiat I shall have the cordial assent of all
rational readers to this—that if these phenomena are real,
they ought to be proved beyond doubt by indisputable evi¬
dence ; if they are delusions they ought to be discovered and
denounced. If facts, their importance cannot be exaggerated
—if frauds, their wickedness cannot be exceeded.
Moat Mount, Highwood, N.W. Edward W. Cox.
1st June, 1874.   
THE SEANCE AT ME. SEEJEANT OCX’s.
Sir,—Mr. Serjeant Cox is unquestionably right in asserting
that “ before we perplex ourselves with the problems of the
how and the why, we should be certain of facts,” but those
same “ facts ” are, unfortunately, the very point on which he
and I are at issue. I have already given a tolerably detailed
account of all that transpired on the occasion of the seance at
his house, and, had he proved to me that the face presented
was actually that of my daughter, I would never have made
the slightest attempt to oppose his testimony, however I
might have expressed my dissatisfaction at the mode in which
he chose to conduct his investigations. But he not only did
not prove it, but told me the next morning how deeply he
regretted his failure, adding—“I wish, I dearly wish I could
have gone into the cabinet; but not for a thousand pounds
would I have let in the light on an entranced figure.”
I may as well here mention one circumstance that a few
Spiritualists may recognise as quite characteristic of his
shuffling mode of dealing with spiritualistic phenomena—
that while my daughter was coming out of the trance he fre¬
quently asked—“ How is the medium, Peter ?” “ Peter, how
is the medium ?” To whom was he speaking as Peter ? Was
he merely humouring the somnambule ? And, if so, why?
A large amount of testimony is, undoubtedly, needed to
convince us of the truth of any circumstance that is completely
at variance with our past experience, but in the illustration
given—that of the possibility of a man’s jumping through a
glass window without breaking it—I fear he could hardly
arrive at any very satisfactory conclusion if informed, on
authority equally credible, that the person most interested in
the non-accomplishment of the feat had first purposely
smashed the pane of glass in order to make sure that the man
did not jump through without breaking it.
The concluding paragraph in Mr. Cox’s letter to the
Medium, stating that I have persistently asserted it to be my
conviction that Florence was Miss Showers, simply furnishes
an additional proof in favour of the veracity of my statement.
What possible object could I have in denying it now? Will
Mr. Serjeant Cox please to point this object out ? It is, how¬
ever, altogether erroneous to suppose that I have ever ex¬
pressed any “ conviction ” of the kind. The fact of materiali¬
sation, not only in one but in all cases, was inexplicable to
me, and apprehending the opposition that so extraordinary a
theory was likely to encounter, I never committed myself to
any opinion whatever on the subject. During the last few
days of my residence in town, I obtained sach striking
evidence in proof of the theory of materialisation, that
hesitation began to give way to conviction, and after a careful
observation of the phenomena that have occurred here since
my return, I have ceased to struggle against that which—
whether I understand it or not—is obviously a fact, viz., that
by certain individuals the forms of the medium and the spirit
can be distinctly and separately seen and felt. Are these
people (who are by no means in a minority) gifted with some
peculiar and additional sense?* and if so, does our own de¬
ficiency, or comparative blindness in this respect, justify us in
ignoring their testimony, particularly when we know that
many things are going on around us which, for want of ap¬
propriate senses, we fail to perceive ?
On the occasion of my first introduction to him, Mr. Serjeant
Oox told me that he had both seen and felt materialised—or,
perhaps, I had better say “ incarnated ” hands. Can any¬
thing be more wonderful than the human hand ? Or does the
miracle lie in the size of the materialised object ? I see, I
confess, no more difficulty in the materialisation of a body
than in that of a hand.
No doubt the conditions imposed at seances are fraught with
suspicion; an atmosphere of suspicion unquestionably sur¬
rounds the whole of these phenomena, but who imposes these
conditions ? How do we find the same conditions imposed
wherever manifestations of a similar nature occur, however
far the mediums be divided in race or in country ? In the
case of Miss Showers (and I presume that I may be allowed
to be a judge of what has taken place in my own house),
there was no knowledge whatever of the spiritual manifesta¬
tions that were going on in the world. She was a mere child,
and had never even glanced at a paper treating on the subject.
One fact alone has been demonstrated by the opposition and
annoyance we have had to endure, and that is, that the inves¬
tigation of Spiritualism is a most serious subject, and not a
mere after-dinner amusement; and that unity of spirit and
religious elevation of character are the most favourable con¬
ditions for the development of Spiritual phenomena. These
conditions it is not possibly to obtain in a mixed assembly.
The persons competent to findertake the investigation of this
subject must already have passed through the phases of intel¬
lectual pride and of disbelief, and as it is impossible to ascend
to the highest without beginning at the lowest; they must
have gone through all the intervening stages. No one can at
a glance understand Spiritualism any more than he can
instantaneously master any other science. It deals most
undoubtedly with subjects lying outside the region of ordi¬
nary sense and sight, and tests which may satisfactorily
be applied to phenomena of a merely physical origin
may possibly be of no avail here. Besides, I, at any rate,
will know where I ought not to cast my pearls in future;
and as mediums of the stamp of Miss Showers are rather un¬
common at present, I would advise those gentlemen who,
in almost utter ignorance of the subject, seem disposed
to respond to the urgent appeal of Mr. Serjeant Cox, and aid
him by the suggestion of “ tests,” to find some better occupa¬
tion for their brains. Men only furnish a most convincing
proof of their own littleness when they express or imply their
disbelief in another’s sincerity and goodness. No intelligent
Spiritualist will of course wish to hold opinions that will not
bear rigid investigation; but unless the correspondence on
this important subject be conducted in a decorous manner,
how can people feel otherwise than confounded by such con¬
tradictory testimonies ? The letters of Mr. Serjeant Cox are
so full of disingenuous and inaccurate statements that I feel
astonished that the editor of the Medium can let them go on
without comment. Perhaps he sees that they answer them¬
selves. Spiritualism has lost nothing by the publication of
these details, and has not much to fear in future, unless its
adversaries manage to disguise their motives more cleverly
than Mr. Cox has done. I am not aware that the theory of
incarnation, though incomprehensible, is anything new to the
student of history, either sacred or profane, from the ancient
Egyptian down to the more modern Christian; and we are
beginning to doubt whether it is really true that miracles are
ended, and that human actions alone are to be seen in the
world. As to poor, ill-requited mediums, it would be pre¬
sumption on my part to attempt to recite to any candid and
reflecting mind that
All the way from Oalvary down
- The carven pavement shows
Their graves who won the martyr’s crown,
And safe in God repose.
* They are usually mediums, or persons of an affectionate and spiritual
nature.—Ed.
June 5, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
275
The saints of many a warring creed
Who now in Heaven have learned
That all paths to the Father lead
Where Self the feet have spurned.
Hazel Down, Teignmouth, Frederica Showers.
Jane, 1,1874.
ME. AND MES. HOLMES.
T Sir,—We have been bolding seances in tbis city witb Mr. and
Mrs. Holmes, wbo bave recently returned from England, and
bave bad some very good materialisations. Last evening,
May 12tb, at ten o’clock, tbe spirit of a coloured person
appeared at tbe aperture. He was tbe first wbo bas spoken to
us; be said bis name was Bomabun Boy; after bim came a
spirit giving tbe name of Katie King; sbe appeared mucb
more distinctly tban any other spirit bad been able to. Sbe
accosted Mrs. Holmes with tbe familiar words, “ You stupid,”
and then remarked that her medium*, Florence Cook, was sick
that night, but in reply to a question said, “ Not very
ill.” Tbis afternoon, Wednesday, May 14th, at four o’clock,
we bad another circle; several spirits appeared, among them
a young lady, tbe daughter of Dr. Noble of tbis city, wbo bas
been recognised on several occasions, and wbo bas taken away
bouquets to different friends in spirit life. Katie came again
and said, “ Doctor Child, I wish you would write to Willie
Harrison, and tell bim 1 am here in Philadelphia.” Sbe called
me “ stupid,” but it was very pleasant to bave such a person
speak to us as sbe did. Sbe informed us that sbe bad been in
spirit life one hundred years. I bave seen materialisations with
Dr. Slade, of New York City, and Mrs. Andrews, of Moravia,
but never saw anything plainer or better tban Katie. I hope
she will tell you what has transpired here, long before tbis
reaches you. Henry T. Child, M.D.
634, Bace-street, Philadelphia, U.S., May 13th, 1874.
[Mr. and Mrs. Holmes are powerful American mediums, but circumstances
infinitely to their discredit became known directly after they left London,
and they are not likely to venture to set foot in England again.—Ed.]
PSYCHIC FOECE.
Sir,—Mr. Serjeant Cox reminds one of tbe fable of tbe dog
crossing tbe water and dropping a substance in pursuit of its
shadow. Mr. Cox denies tbe existence of a physical force
called animal magnetism or mesmerism, in favour of a fanci¬
ful unintelligible “something” be terms “psychic force.”
Never was a fancy more ably supported by assumption and
assertion, and never did a writer exhibit such complete igno¬
rance of the matters in question, and, at tbe same time, witb
such boastful pretensions to exact knowledge. How can tbe
attention of tbe patient being’drawn to tbe seat of tbe disease
be tbe reason of tbe cure, when almost all my cures were
effected by rendering tbe patient totally insensible and uncon¬
scious, witb tbe remarkable exception of any pain caused to
tbe mesmeriser being instantly and sympathetically felt in tbe
same or corresponding part of tbe patient. Mr. Cox ought to
know better, but the conceit of most tbeorisers renders them
blind to facts and unconsciously disingenuous. Again, I sel¬
dom used “ passes,” but either laid my band on tbe bead or
shoulder, or just sat quiet, directing my will towards tbe
patient, much as Spiritualists sit quietly round tbe table,
waiting for results to come, or as Newton set bis mind
towards a subject, as be tells us, and waited for tbe ideas to
arrive. But I bave no wish to do more tban solemnly protest
against Mr. Cox’s ignorant assertions, disproved by the whole
range of tbe facts in question.
Nor is it true that I cured Miss Martineau by means of her
servant. It was through tbe great kindness of a lady friend of
remarkable mesmeric power, acting under my directions. It is
easy to support theories if you invent or colour facts, and
assume reasons.
Then see bow Mr. Cox contradicts himself about tbe will to
which be denies a physical source, and declares to be always
suspended in sleep, and yet we bave tbis statement: “ Then
the dream takes the painful form of some agony from which
we try witb maddening endeavour to escape, and cannot.” It
is quite untrue that we do not will in our dreams; what we want
in most dreams, is tbe influence of the balance of tbe senses,
just as it is with men wbo give themselves up to theorising or
to abstract thought, to tbe neglect of observation and ex¬
perience. But Mr. Cox bas got bis pet child, tbe ^psychic
force, to put out in tbe world, and it suits bis theory to assume
that tbe will is a metaphysical attribute of a soul at bis dis¬
posal to move tables, and to do ^the intelligence and table
talk, and tbe rest of it. Yet strange to say, tbe best things
are done when tbe medium is in tbe trance, and tbe soul is
asleep, and its consciousness and will suspended, at least to all
appearance, whatever we may fancy.
The most important mistake, perhaps, that Mr. Cox bas
made, is in regard to tbe old question of tbe persistent sense
of identity under tbe continual change of the substance of
tbe body, advanced to prove the existence of a' something that
does not change—a difficulty fully explained by me twenty
years ago in my letters to Miss Martineau, accepted by Dr.
Maudsley, and referred to by Dr. Tyndall as tbe perpetual
transfer of tbe old condition to tbe fresh particles, and having
regard to tbe horse as well as to its rider, and having respect
to plants and trees as well as to animals. Why Mr, Cox bas
not referred to my explanation be best knows. I bave re¬
ferred bim to tbe passage in question, and I dare say we shall
bave bis reply. Tbis transference of conditions is one of tbe
most profound questions of physiology, because it not only
refers to tbe wonderful continuance of tbe sameness of
physical and mental state, but to tbe investing of tbe countless
germ cells witb tbe nature of the whole being—that is, tbe
inate ability to reproduce tbe species in all respects, even to
matters or states that may pass over several generations and
then appear again, tban which nothing in Spiritualism can be
more spiritual or more marvellous, putting to flight all those
materialistic mechanical notions as in regard to tbe theories
of Mr. Darwin and bis followers, whether as to tbe so-called
“ natural selection” or tbe hypothesis of Pangenesis.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France. Henry Gr. Atkinson.
AH EXPLAHATIOH.
Sir,—In reporting a portion of my utterances at Quebec
Institution some two weeks ago, I regret to find your reporter
in a muddle as to my meaning; so mucb so as to say I was
“ unscientific,” and so wording the report as to really convey
to the reader that impression. I desire to narrate the facts.
They were, that as nature around us was divisional—as we
see it in geology, mineralogy, botany, <fcc.—so in Spiritualism
there are divisions, each would require mucb time to explain.
That, as I was tied to a few minutes, I would only touch
tbe assertion of materialists that mind cannot exist without
tbe physical brain man is possessed of, by showing that
mind, or spirit, being more ethereal tban air, electricity, or
magnetism—I call tbe substance magnetine—mind could,
under suitable conditions, enter and remain in a modifica¬
tion of these substances as easily as it does in tbe modification
of tbe more solid substances known as brain-matter.
To vivify the reality of tbe three elements I named, I
desired tbe audience to give to each a colour, to air blue,
electricity yellow, magnetine red; and, as tbe three powers
were in vigorous action in tbe ball while I was speaking, I
desired tbe audience to perceive their mode of action by
means of tbe colours—air filling tbe ball; electricity, avoiding
tbe air, but dashing, seething through tbe walls and along the
floor, as if a river; and magnetine streaming through tbe air :
and, as tbe action of tbe three was perceived by me, I
exclaimed—“ What a blessing that our eyes were so opaque
that we could not see tbe play of, not only those three forces,
but of others still more ethereal!”
It is miserable special pleading to assert that substances
bave no colour; that.colour is something waveisb acting on
tbe substance, is to tell us that a rose bas no colour; is, by
language, to destroy all tbe distinctive marks we bave in
ordinary life to identify substances.*
To tbe foolish question put, what colour is truth ? Because
I bad stated that all substances bad colour, I on tbe spur of
tbe moment said, “ White symbolically.” But truth being
only a principle, not a substance, cannot bave colour.
In the foregoing reiteration of my statement on tbe plat¬
form, I fail to see anything contrary to common sense and
* Mr. Jones’s letter down to this point amply justifies the remark of our
reporter, and proves that Mr. Jones should not attempt to deal with scien¬
tific subjects, in relation to which he has not had the advantage of having
received any education. We say tnis with all respect to him for the work
he has done for many years in Spiritualism; but, as he unfortunately
claims the publication of this letter as a matter of right, there is no alter¬
native hut to enter our protest against its contents, and against giving
space to the same. Mr. Jones is a very good and well informed writer on
the relationship of modem Spiritualism, its phenomena and teachings, to
the ancient facts of Spiritualism recorden in the Bible. We cannot give
space to teaching anybody elementary physics in public, but incidentally
mention that some night Mr. Jones should illuminate a room for a short time
solely with monochromatic light, made by taking a pint of warm and
strong spirits of wine, mixing it with two or three tablespoonfuls of com¬
mon salt in a warm large dinner dish, and setting fire to it in the said dish;
then let him discover where the red and blue colours of all the objects in
the room have gone—the colour of his own lips, for instance.—Ed.
276
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 5, 1874.
current knowledge. One thing I state; I was not aware
when I accepted the duty of speaking at the meeting, that I
was to be cross questioned by the audience. Not being a
member of the Association, I was ignorant of the programme
for the guidance of the meeting, and was annoyed at being
put in front as the first speaker, as I fully expected the true
leaders of the Association would have been on the platform
and given us information from which to carve a speech.
Doubtless I was not in my place in fronting the audience, but
my heart beats Spiritualism, and therefore gladly consented
to help in the effort to make more public the principles we
love so truly.
To close, I state that during the last fifty years I have heard
the most crude theories put forth, and for a time those
theories were believed in by so-called scientific circles, and
then flung aside. One of those theory epochs we are passing
through now, and unless we dance polka to it, reporters de¬
light to jabber the easy said word—unscientific.
Enmore-park, Norwood. J. Enmore Jones.
ME. MONCTJEE D, CONWAY ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—In your publication of May 29th you have a letter
from a subscriber headed as above, in which the following
sentence appears :—“ We had thought that the mimicries of
Spiritualism by Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke had been
thoroughly and satisfactorily exposed in the lectures of Dr.
George Sexton.” Allow me not only to correct your sub¬
scriber but many others who have read the lectures merely,
and not witnessed the doings of Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke
in their expose of the tricks of professed and paid media. Dr.
George Sexton has never exposed the feats of Maskelyne and
Cooke, and has now, I believe, given up even an attempt to
do so. Maskelyne and Cooke allow themselves to be held
hands and feet by strangers, and never fail to accomplish all
the remarkable feats which the Spiritualists have attributed
to supernatural agency. The professional spirit media, as
well as others well skilled in rope tying, are challenged every
day at the Egyptian Hall to secure the performers in a
manner that would stop the manifestations, and although
some hundreds have tried their ability to the very utmost,
none up to the present moment have succeeded. If I could
bring my mind to the belief that spirits would do such un¬
spiritual things as are attributed to them, I should certainly
say Maskelyne and Cooke are very powerful media, simply
because their feats are beyond my comprehension, and the
trickery employed has never been detected. When I speak of
the feats, I mean those which comprise the main portion of
the entertainment, and not the minor incidents which simply
go to fill up the programme and may be explained even by the
uninitiated. W. Morton, Manager.
Egyptian Hall, June 1st.
[The method whereby all the tricks of Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke
were performed at their entertainment at the Crystal Palace, were pub¬
lished with sectional drawings in No. 48 and No. 51 of The Spiritualist.
Since then, Dr. Sexton made apparatus on the principle- therein described,
and reproduced their tricks himself, before public audiences. A mirror
was fitted against the roof of their cabinet, and when it was let down at an
angle of 45 degs., the cabinet" appeared to spectators in front to be empty,
but what they thought to be the back of the cabinet was the roof reflected
by the inclined mirror; the actor, who was supposed to have escaped from
the cabinet, was lying under the mirror. Since then Messrs. Maskeljne
and Cooke have got up a new and infinitely superior performance in the
shape of a dark seance, in which no reflecting mirror in the cabinet is
necessary, and it is an inimitable entertainment of its kind, which it is to be
hoped Dr. Sexton will reproduce without delay, as he has made this work
his special province. Mr. Morton writes to ask “ will we insert an adver¬
tisement about their performance?” Yes, provided it be not of bad cha¬
racter, and contain no offensive remarks about Spiritualists; this is a public
journal, and conducted on the same principles in the advertising depart¬
ment as daily newspapers.—Ed.]
SPIRIT MESSAGES ON SELFISHNESS.
Translated from the “Revue Spirite,” April, 1874.
Selfishness is not a perversity of spirit, it is only a low
moral condition so long as it is unpremeditated, and is only
caused by self-love, and not by the desire to injure others.
Under these conditions the selfish man is an imperfect, but
not a very guilty being. During his life-time the selfish man
has isolated himself by remaining impassive to the sufferings
of others, therefore in the other world he finds himself quite
alone, gifted with perceptive faculties, but plunged in total
darkness, as the following communications teach:—
Spirit—I am a soul lost in space, I am dead, and I cannot
find any of my earthly possessions, my house, my wife, or
anything. I am not suffering physically, and I can perceive
other spirits like myself, some are wandering even as I am,
others seem occupied, but I know not what their mission may
be. I see these spirits, but I do not converse with them, for
they can none of them give me that of which I am in search.
I do not see that I deserved this punishment, I was an honest
man, never returning evil for evil. I molested no one, and
lived in my own home, never interfering with anybody.
Medium.—Your condition is perhaps the result of having
cut yourself off too entirely from the world; have you not
neglected to practise that charity which is every man’s duty
to his neighbour ? You must pray and repent your selfishness.
Spirit—It may be so; yes, I believe it is . I have concentrated
all my thoughts on one point, and have allowed my perceptive
faculties of exterior matters to die away. I will pray, and do
pray for me.
Medium—Who are you ?
Second Spirit—I am a suffering spirit; I am in total dark¬
ness, I was not so on earth; I can hear the spirits, and I have
no physical sufferings except blindness. I have come to ask
you why I suffer thus. Some spirits told me that you could
tell me, and give me some advice.
Medium—It must be the consequence of some faults com¬
mitted during your earth-life.
Second Spirit—It is true I committed faults. I was a
coward, and unfaithful.
The Spirit Guide of the Medium—This spirit’s case is some¬
what analogous to that of the last spirit, only this one was sel¬
fish to the last degree. He only thought of himself, and lost his
perceptive faculties, just as a man who remains always seated
will Iqse the use of his legs. There are many men like the
first spirit, who live for themselves alone. Like a rat shut up
in a cheese, there is no outer world to them. Once dead he
has lost sight of his beloved little home, and goes wandering
through space regretfully seeking it. We learn from this that
it is wrong to shut oneself up in one’s own small, puny circle,
without caring for the rest of the world. It is not sufficient to
be inoffensive to deserve happiness, one should share the
troubles of others, and endeavour to minister to them.
Charity need not necessarily take the form of pecuniary aid,
which, however, generally involving some personal sacrifice, is
highly meritorious; but a kind deed, a gentle word even,
a thought of commiseration for the suffering, are fulfilments
of the duty of charity.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
& Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
« SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Couritry Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
June 5, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vica-Pretidints.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill.
Everitt, Thomas, Esq., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon.
Fi z-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park-square.
Hall, S. G., Esq., F.S.A., Avenue-villa, Holland-street, Kensington.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street Grosvenor-square.
Senior, Mrs. H„ 67, Bodney-street, Liverpool.
Smith, Martin It, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Speer, S. T., Esq., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood.
Wason, J., Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Caims-road, N.E.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove,|Stratford.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Clark, G. B., 5, Blackwood-crescent, Newington, Edinburgh.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Ljnton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawson, George H., I, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dinsdale, Joseph, 15, Caird-street, West Derby-road, Liverpool.
Davies, Bev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Hill-side, Streatham, S.W.
Harper, Bobert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, E.C.
Hoskins, J. Thornton, M.A., F.B.S.L., Beform Club, S.W., and 5, Con-
naught-square, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., 25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lewis, Charles Mansel, J P., United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S , 14, Burnley-roacL Stockwell, S.W.
Bogers, E. Dawson, 29, Daly ell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar road, Old Kent-road,
S.E.
Shepherd, J., Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Snelling, G. F., 24, Sylvan-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood,
Swinton, A. 0., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, B. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wileon, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Attenberg-terraee, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club.
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Bussie, Nieder Walluf on the Bhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky.
Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
J. Biko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Bue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
Joseph Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Kail way, Bengal,
O. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid,
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 62, Bue de Borne, Paris.
W, Lindesey Bichardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, Paris,
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. JTo.be had of W, H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIBVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Bevealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.)
Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-street, Portman-square,
London, W.
R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMEBIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Bussell-square. Private Seances attended,
MESMEEISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five. o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,.
Gampden-hill, Kensington.
R. W. G. SCORET, Medical Mesmerist' and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
BUBBEB, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica
tion by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39,-West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Mafia-lane, E.C.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “ Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust; she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. References exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.O.
COMPANION or GOVERNESS in a Spiritualist’s Family.
28 years of. age. Acquirements—English in all Branches. Drawing
Heads in Crayon and Perspective Landscape from Nature. German, lived
one year in Germany. French, Italian, Music, and Needlework. Good
Beferences. Address 0. S., Morley’s Library, Forest-hill, London.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dCHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 5, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION. .
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-streCt, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows
“ H. Gk Atkinson, Esq., F.G-.S., G. "Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradiaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, Janies Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Pox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq.; Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance. .
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ . & |
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional ■ medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained,
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk"" to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?" When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
Just published,
The second tolume of “ what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. OOX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
Chap.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
A. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VL History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
' 29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co Patemoster-row.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour anAa half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused' except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so -
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spdke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
THE ALLEGED IDENTIFICATION OF THE
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen'are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
CIRCLE is in Process of Formation; Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian ' Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stamped envelope for reply, to O. W., 41, Bemard-street,
Russell-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.O.
