Registered as a Newspaper.
©^YdSo^oG^iciS©
#Itof S^xrifxtalxsm xtx Sxmt ^ntextx,
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines,' and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : The Internationa
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U,S.r 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
No. 234.—(Vol. x.—No. 7.)
<£ontent8.
The National Conference op spiritualists for 1877
The Opening Presidential Address    73
A Paper by Mr. Thomas Shorter—Spirit Photography:
a Refutation of Pseudo-Scientific Theories  75
The Discussion—The Photographing of the Spirit of Sir
William Baynes—Photographing the Double of a Me¬
dium—The Photographing of the Spirit of the Wife
of Mr. Livermore, the New York Banker 76
Test Spirit Photograph  ...76
A Paper by Mr. T. P. Barkas—Photographing a Mate¬
rialised Form—The Persecution of Mediums by Pro¬
fessed Men of Science—The Scientific Aspects of the
Alleged Modem Spiritual Phenomena—Extraordinary
Appearance of Materialised Spirits 77
The Discussion—Fact or Unconscious Cerebration ?... ... 78
A Paper by Mr. R. Pearce—Organisations of Spiritualists
in London and the Provinces—Spiritualism in London,
Lancashire, Liverpool, Manchester, Hyde, Leigh, Old¬
ham, Ashton-under-Lyne, Bolton, Rochdale, Barrow-in-
Fumess, Halifax, Sowerby-bridge, Keighley, Leeds,
Huddersfield, Ossett, Sheffield, Hull, Grimsby, Saltburn-
by-the-Sea, Bishop Auckland, New Shildon, Chester-le-
Street, Sunderland, South Shields, Newcastle, Chop-
pington, Glasgow, Nottingham. Leicester, Northamp¬
ton, Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Merthyr, Llanelly,
Plymouth and West Cornwall   ... ... ... 78
The Discussion—Spiritualism in the Isle of ; Wight—
Provincial Organisations— Spiritualism in Glasgow,
Lancashire, Birmingham and the Channel Islands—
The Influences Governing the Formation and Dis¬
ruption of Spiritual Organisations—Spiritualism and
the Clergy and Nonconformists—The Non-Reception of
Spiritualism by the Celts—Spiritualism, Dissenters,
Shakers and Ranters—The Recording of Spiritualistic
Statistics  81
A Paper by Mr. W. H. Harrison—The Relation of the Law
to Public Mediums—Spotted Tail “(The Just ”—The
Difficulties and Trials of Mediums—The Inimitable Per¬
fection of the Law   ...   82
The Discussion—The Vagrancy and Witchcraft Acts—
Clairvoyant Powers Punishable at Law—An Astrologer
in Spite of Himself 83
The Spiritualists’ Defence Committee:—Disbursements for
Law Expenses—Public Mediumship ...  84
Paragraphs:—National Association Conversazione—The Na¬
tional Association of Spiritualists—Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism—Dr, |W. B. Carpenter
at Stockton-on-Tees.,, >...   84
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;sHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenbergl; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S. Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marrrat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria!; Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Earn.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. 1’.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ^United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedlKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States,'4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Rvwsell-street, London,
W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one.book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seinces,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially ihvited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payahle at the Great Russell-street
Post-offlee.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES.
A new series of Free Circles for Inquirers, tickets for which
can he purchased by Members at a nominal charge, are now
held weekly, on Thursdays, at 38, Great Russell-street, at
8 p.m. precisely.
Private Seances for Members and Subscribers only are held
every Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. each. Appli¬
cation for tickets must in all cases be made in advance.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
The next Fortnightly Meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists stands adjourned to Monday,
19th instant, at 8 p.m. Subject: Adjourned Discussion on
Dr. Carter Blake's Paper, “Ancient Thought and Modern
Spiritualism.”
The meetings are free to Members and their friends.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loushborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street,/Leigh, Lancashire.
ANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on th# minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
I? Q TTvnvfcHr
HENRY D. JENCKEN' ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Yice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Loyell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The tof Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences ef investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several :well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct ol seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary. .
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payableiu advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
OTICE.—TO SPIRITUALIST FRIENDS
ONLY.—Mr. W. Eglinton has arranged for another
Seance at Mrs. Olive’s residence, 15, Ainger-terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W., on Wednesday, February 14th, at 7 p.m.
Admission, 5s. .
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanee, 5s, 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &o., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. —A com¬
plete set of this valuable work for sale, in 17 vols.—
1860—76. Eleven vols. bound half calf, marble edgesthe
remaining six unbound. Price £6 6s. Address—S. B. Field,
13, Ampton-street, Gray’s-inn-road, W.O.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
IFE BEYOND THE GRAYE: described by
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines; in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This hook affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modem Spiritualism are found
in Hie Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 16, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander C alder, Egq., 1, Hereford-square, 'West Brompton, S .W»
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, $1, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwiok-square, S.W.
Jeneken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrlster-at-law, 96, Portjand-place, W.
Rogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin ft., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tern pieman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-piaoe, Hyde-park, w.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Arm field, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Kichmond Hill.
Binney, F- A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K, Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. fl., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivhney, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W,
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-termce, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dals.ton, E.
Reiroers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roan, S.E,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds,
wuson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs^ 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Oarlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W,
Ronorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq,, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. | Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
MUs Kisllngbnry, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
fhe Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.'A.'
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Gonstant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2B, Leipsic, Germany.?
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Glavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. j. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A,
J. H. Gledstanes.Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Mempliis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue T anger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Ncwlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 28,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Maay-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirlta Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGHCAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mx. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mx. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
HE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANG-E VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 8s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards Of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
/CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE iSEANCH for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, <S;e,
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
R. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—85, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
London, W.C.
RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Fieri Pavilion, &c. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
beep designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists,
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manageb—Mbs. A. C. Blbkk
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EYIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
HIGH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. G. O. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Siade.—2jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id. j post free for IJd.;. or six copies post free
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi¬
cal WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
X> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyeho-
JLl! logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
pbilosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, (fee., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year.
APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGER fob 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Ephermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London Catty and Dobson ,1, Ivy Lane, E.C.
if tl to uf tl ^{tiijii«itfi$ttt,
Volujvie Tejs(. Kumber Sevejst.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16th, 1877.
THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS j j
FOR 1877. I ]
The Annual National Conference of Spiritualists begun | j
on Wednesday, last week, with a conversazione, held at 38, j j |
Great Russell-street, London, and in the course of the | j j
evening an address was delivered by the President of the j (j
Association. On the following day, Thursday, the reading j
of papers began at 3.30 p.m., and the evening meeting jij
began at 8 o’clock; two other meetings were held last j j j
Friday, and on the evening of that day the Conference came i j j
to a close. As the proceedings went on, public 'interest ] i j
awakened more and more, until there were full attendances, j (j
Amongst the friends present were:— j)!
Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the National Association of i(j
Spiritualists ; Mr. Morell Theobald; Mr. E. Dawson Rogers; Mr. M. ! s I
J. Walhouse, F.R.A.S,; Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.; Mr. !)j
H. Wedgwood, M.R.I.; Dr. Blunt; Mr. T. H. Edmands; Mr. H. D. |j |
Jencken, M.R.I.; Miss E. Fitz-Gerald; Mrs. Maltby; MissMaltby; i|i
Dr. George Wyld; Mr. C.C. Massey; Mr. H. T. Humphreys; Mr. in
W. B. Mawson; Mr. E. ParMnson Ashton; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; \l\
Mr. Algernon .Toy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Alfred ij j
H. Louis ; Mrs. Lowe ; Captain John James ; Mr. R. Pearce ; the i j j
Rev. W. Miall; Mr. Thomas Shorter; Miss E. Shorter; Mr. and Mrs. j (j
J. J. Morse ; Mrs. Limpus ; Mr. A. B. Camm ; Mr. G. R. Tapp ; j) j
Miss Caroline Burke; Mr. A. Glendinning; Mr. C. E. Williams; || 1
Mr. Thomas J. Barratt; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. Henry Cook; Mr. I. h j
Mayo ; Mr. A. Vacher; Miss Barber; Miss A. M. Colling wood; Mr. j / i
and Mrs. Regan; Mr. Musgrave; Mrs. Langhorne Burton Burton; j (j
Mrs. Alan Tennyson Ker; Mrs. Rogers; Mrs. Burke; Miss F. J. Ijj
Theobald; Miss A. G. Williamson; Miss E. Williamson; Mrs. j) j
Michell; Mr. W. Herbert; Mrs. Dixon; Miss E. Withall; Miss H. i (j
Withall; Mr. H. Hales ; Mrs. and Miss Brewerton; Mr. John Rouse; n
Mrs. Pritchard; Mr. John Glass; Mrs. William Crookes; Mrs. Hum- j) j
phreys ; Miss Clara Wing; Mr. S. P. Field; Mr. C. Pearson; Mrs. j (j
Wiseman; Mr. A. T. Peterson; Mr. Potts; Mr. W. Eglinton; Miss j j
Savage ; Mrs. Hallock; Miss L. Newenham ; Mr. and Mrs. G. F. j j j
Green; Mrs. Keningale Cook; Miss Ellen Crump ; Mr. John Taft; i j j
Miss E. Kislingbury; and Mr. W. H. Harrison. ) j
I 1
THE OPENING PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS. (
The following is the opening address, delivered at the j
conversazione, by Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the [jj
British National Association of Spiritualists ! |
j \ j
Ladies and Gentlemen, j j
It having been suggested that I should address you this even- j j j
ing, preparatory to our Conference, which commences to-morrow, j j j
I purpose to review, however imperfectly, the most prominent ! j 1
features which concern us in the year which has passed. j) j
Before proceeding on this task I feel it necessary to dwell on ijj
a matter which naturally occupies our attention as it is of imme- j \ j
diate interest. I refer to the position of that eminent worker in j j j
our cause, Dr. Henry Slade. If the history of his trial and con- ! j j
viction, in spite of the “ overwhelming evidence ” in his favour, i j j
was thought unjust, what shall we think of the commencement of ijj
fresh proceedings for the same alleged offence, although he made i j j
a successful appeal at Quarter Sessions? The first proceedings j'jj
were undertaken in the vain hope of suppressing Spiritualism, jjj
and the second or present are declared to be on scientific grounds, j j j
But surely science needs no such subterfuge. Surely every species I j j
of persecution degrades her fair name. She loves accuracy above j j i
all things. In this respect science resembles Spiritualism. Facts j jl
count for much, inferences for little or nothing. The strongest I \ i
evidence against Dr. Slade when weighed amounts only to an in- j j j
ference, wholly insufficient to balance the weakest testimony in !/j
his favour; not one fact was proved against him, while many I j j
were given for him. This is the bare truth; let those deny it j | j
who can. It requires no man of science to discern that the jj i
charge against him is as light as a feather compared with the evi- j (j
dence in his favour, yet strange to say the insensibility to things j j j
spiritual is so great as to influence respectable men in the perpe- j j i
tration of illiberal acts. Nothing is truer than this proposition, j | i
that a man may be highly distinguished in one branch of know- j j i
ledge, and yet be wholly ignorant of Spiritualism, and that simply j j j
because he has not made it his study. Grapes do not grow on j > j
thorns, nor are figs found on thistles. It is lamentable to think i I i
of the deep ignorance in which men are content to dwell as
regards the highest half of their nature, and painful for us now to
believe that we are deprived of the use of the gifts of a great
medium, whereby the minds of materialists might have been
quickened into a better, because truer, knowledge of life and its
mysterious- relationship to the things unseen. If left to work
among us unmolested it is not improbable that Dr. Slade would
prove the agent to effect a revolution in public opinion by ex¬
citing a distinct desire for spiritualistic study. But this cannot,
must not be. The Committee of the Spiritualists’ Defence Fund
weighing the fact of his shattered condition, see no chance of his
restoration to health in an atmosphere already too charged with
the elements of persecution: and they have firmly resolved to
discourage his return to England until passion shall have resigned
her place to the genius of investigation, the furious matador for
the diligent inquirer. To pursue “ elusive wild beasts ” may be
more in keeping with the character of the zoologist than that of
the student of a higher science; but it scarcely helps to unravel
what, to say the least, has proved a stupendous mystery. It is
preposterous to expect that violence and haste can favour the
cause of science, whose votaries are uniformly distinguished for
meekness, patience, and dispassion.
Stepping aside from these unhappy considerations and look¬
ing abroad, it is a comfort to see the waves of truth every¬
where rising. To say nothing of the movement in the United
Kingdom, concerning which you are well informed, foremost in
activity we behold in the West the United States* followed by
Mexico and other places on the great Continent of America,
while nearer us France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Holland, Bel¬
gium, Hungary are conspicuous, and further off, at the Cape,
in India, and Australia the flood carries nourishment and
fertility. In all these places societies—several of them being
in correspondence with our own Association, are established
and in active work—setting forth some of the wonderful testi¬
monies of the spirit. All these independent self-supporting circles
declare the solemn truth, which cannot be too often repeated, that
the proper development of man must be through the spirit, and
that Spiritualism is the noblest prize of religious freedom whereby-
a stronger impetus is given to virtue and goodness, the brilliancy
of which has been sadly obscured by the sordid characteristics
of the age.
Such being our view, it is a hopeful sign that everything around
betokens the approach of the full light of the day of regeneration.
In the field of literature the year has not been without fruit, as
several new works have been published, and among them may be
mentioned Original Researches in Psychology, by Mr. T. P. Barkas;
Life beyond the Gmve, by “ Fritz; ” two works edited by Mrr.
Hardinge-Britten, Art Magic and Ghost Land ; Miss Anna Black¬
well’s translation of Allan Kardec’s Mediums’ Book ; and various
interesting pamphlets on the Slade case. An important work
has also appeared in the Dutch language, by our corresponding
member, Mr. A. J. Riko, and various translations of standard
writings on Spiritualism have been translated into French,
German, and Spanish.
With thirty-eight Journals and Reviews flourishing in Europe
and the United States, we have acquired an established position
of some strength in the world; and the campaign of the year
now fully entered upon promises fair probabilities of usefulness.
Descending to more minute particulars, I think we may be
permitted to congratulate ourselves on the, steady advance in the
important work to which we have set our hands. Everywhere
along the line of operations there has been a great display of
energy marked in several spheres of labour with unparalleled
success.
The genuineness of spirit photography received a remarkably
striking solution early in the year, when a committee of seven
practical photographers conducted a series of experiments at Cin¬
cinnati in the United States, Mr. Hartman, a rival photographer,
who had obtained considerable distinction in this line, being the
medium. Precautions having been taken that the experiments
should not be conducted at his house, and that he should have
nothing whatever to do with the manipulation of the plates, the
certificate which was granted on the occasion declares that three
distinct spirit pictures were secured, and the Committee express
74 THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 16, 1877.
themselves “satisfied that these forms were produced by some j)
means unknown to them, and without fraud on the part of the iij
said medium, for he never entered the dark room or handled ||!
the plates.” This testimony, coming from a body of rival photo- I)
graphers, disbelievers in the phenomena, is most valuable, and K
their assurance is all the more satisfactory because it follows j)
shortly after the defection and cupidity of the French photographer, j |
Buguet; and the circumstance should go far to remove the doubt i |
which was then cast on this branch of evidence. When we con- j j
sider that ordinary photography was wholly unknown some fifty j l
years ago, and the world was slow and reluctant at that period jj
to believe in the possible production of one picture like those now j j
produced daily by the cartload, we need scarcely be surprised at j)
the large development of spirit photographs. We may be sure \\
that when we know more of spirit power we shall marvel less j |
at this production. Besides, all doubt and lurking surprise i j
should wholly vanish when we remember the experiments con- jj
ducted under scientific tests by those distinguished Fellows of the j j
Royal Society, Messrs. Crookes and Yariey, in that other de- jj
partment of psychology, the materialisation of spirits. j j
The account given by Mr. Yariey last December under this i j
head shows, among other matters, that the experiment he refers j j
to was conducted at the residence of Mr. Luxmoore, in Hyde jj
Park, where the medium was treated like a telegraph cable, a j j
current being sent from her right wrist along her .right and left i |
arms to her left wrist. She was tested for what is technically I j
known as “ continuity and resistance ” all through the sitting, i (
For this purpose a reflecting galvanometer, a box of standard re- j j
sistances, and the necessary keys and shunts were employed. By j j
these means the medium could not break the circuit of electricity j j
for even the hundredth part of a second without the fact being j l
instantly revealed! “Yet,” says Mr. Yariey, “out came the ij
materialised Annie Morgan. She spoke to us and wrote before i j
us on paper; and, stranger still, she once appeared only half j)
materialised from her waist upwards, the lower extremities being j j
absent.” Mr. Yariey proceeds to say, “ I shook hands with this jjj
materialised being, and at the conclusion of the sitting, which I j
lasted over one hour, I was instructed by Annie Morgan to go j j
to the medium and demesmerise her. I found Miss Cook, the jjj
medium, just as I had left her; the platinum wires were untouched, j J j
and she was in a deep trance, from which I speedily awoke her by jjj
cross passes.” Mr. Crookes’s testimony regarding similar mani- jjj
festations is much to the same purport. In the presence of such j j i
clear proof of spirit materialisation, altogether distinct from the jji
repeated examples occurring during the year at Liverpool and [jj
Newcastle, we may safely accept the genuineness of the lesser ijj
phenomenon of spirit photography. i j j
Again, as if the testimony to spiritual phenomena were not jjj
complete and incontrovertible, we had accounts early in the year j j j
of plaster moulds having been taken from spirit hands. To j !
Professor Denton, of Massachusetts, U.S., belongs the credit of jjj
having first devised this mode of evidence. Beautiful paraffin j j
casts have been taken by him with perfect success, and the process j j
has since been followed by several persons in England with j i
equally favourable results under test conditions. j i
The phenomenon of direct spirit writing never received more i J j
striking illustration than during the year, creating a world-wide jj
commotion, whose effects have not yet passed away and will long jjj
be remembered. While Spiritualism was fighting its way to the jjj
front, and as a science maintained its ground at the last annual j j
meeting of the British Association, some boisterous individuals, jjj
more famous for physical than mental energy, made a raid upon i i
that renowned sensitive, Dr. Slade. Whatever the motives which jjj
influenced these men, and whatever the nature of the issues raised, j j
of one thing we may be certain, that no harm has been done to jjj
the cause but rather much good, since a knowledge of some of the j j j
facts of Spiritualism has been more extensively spread this year j j
through their barbarous proceedings than in many years gone by. j j
The fruits of victory being with us, the triumph is really our own. j j
Nor have these persons been alone in their assaults. Some jjl
older and more experienced men, who might have known better, i 11
have been busy trying to inflict as much injury on our cause as j j j
they possibly could effect; but their efforts are equally vain, and j j
chief among them is our ancient foe, Dr. Carpenter, who in the j j
first month of the past year appeared in the Contemptrary Review, ijj
striving, with a simplicity which does him no credit, to dispose of jjj
the whole facts of Spiritualism on the ground of “prepossession.” jjj
That word alone was sufficient to account for all the phenomena, j j I
The history of the conversion of any real Spiritualist would serve jjj
to show that the prepossession theory is simply ridiculous. Many jjj
hard-headed Spiritualists have testified to the state of their minds i|i
when accepting the Spiritualistic theory. At first they combated |jj
it with all their might, but were'ultimately defeated and made jjj
captives. The dullest understanding might perceive that thou- i$i
sands, nay, myriads of individuals, could scarcely be willing
acceptors of a position exposing them to the adverse criticism of
their more uninformed friends and neighbours, unless there were
some imperious power behind, too great to be resisted, appealing
to their conscience and binding them to go forward in the
cause of truth. The objective reality of the phenomena is irre¬
vocably impressed on the soul; and experience akin to it has
prepared and sustained the martyr both in torments and in
death. , Dr. Carpenter, attracted by reports of slate writing,
had a stance with Slade; and having been somewhat startled
from his equanimity, promised to go further into the matter. A
benevolent fit seems to have occupied him for a season, but it
soon passed off, and he closed the year with two lectures at the
London Institution, widening the distance between himself and
Spiritualism by raising the phantom of insanity before his
audience. He was preceded in this line of denunciation by
another medical man, the inheritor of a distinguished name.
Dr. Forbes Winslow’s pamphlet, however well-intentioned, is full
of gross exaggerations. Spiritualism will no more hurt a man
than the study of botany, geology, or geography, though it is
more than probable that an overdose of any of these innocent
employments will fit a man for an asylum; it is the abuse of
Spiritualism, or anything else, and not the use, which is
dangerous. But surely both these physicians well know that
lunatic asylums are chiefly peopled by those afflicted with
religious mania, and that such was the acknowledged fact long
before Spiritualism was heard of. That popular Christianity is
one of the chief factors in filling our asylums, none better know
than Dr. Carpenter and Dr. Winslow, yet when have they lifted
up their voices against the preacher ? Why do they not denounce
the wretched dogmas preached in the name of the Almighty ]
Instead of insisting and insinuating that Spiritualism, of which
they are so ignorant, leads to madness, and instead of going
out of their way to handle it, they should rather denounce
popular Christianity. Then would they stand on firm ground,
and become public benefactors. So great and accomplished
a student of mental physiology might safely take up his
parable and admonish the religious leaders of the day;
but there is this little difficulty in the way, he lacks the
stuff of which true prophets are made. The small body of
Spiritualists is enough for his prowess. He has no sympathy
towards the “ half-starved, sickly creatures affected with diluted
insanity.” And yet when the Spiritualist is thus taunted and
assailed, he may be pardoned if he points to these lines of
Tennyson:—
“ How pure in heart and sound in head,
With what divine affection hold,
Should be the man whose thoughts would hold
An hour’s communion with the dead.”
If the Materialist would ponder over this verse, it might prove a
useful mirror in which to discover the secret of his bitterness
against Spiritualism, and perhaps make him less furious and rabid.
Without dwelling on the important matters of clairvoyance
and other manifestations, I would pass on t© the subject of
Organisation, for this, after all, is the one thing which, at this
moment, we should study to promote with all our might. This
is the age of co-operation. To unite in a common object or
brotherhood is to show sound wisdom and strength. It is to
gather together our scattered forces, and arrange them into a
disciplined body. As volunteers dispersed over the country
cannot compare with a regiment of regulars, so Spiritualists
outside of organisation proclaim their weakness. When I hear of
Spiritualists high and low thirsting for investigation into the
mysteries of Spiritualism, it seems strange that they do not
break their reticence and join our organisation, which possesses
such advantages, for it cannot be doubted that the more compre¬
hensive and perfect the organisation the greater the benefit to the
cause. In proportion as our organisation extends is its power
for good. All Spiritualists in the United Kingdom desirous of
advancing a common interest should join this Association, either
directly as members or indirectly as members of other societies
allied to ours. They have learnt the truth and sacredness of the
cause; they have, perhaps, tasted some of the consolations which
their principles bring, and they should do something to impart to
others the knowledge which they themselves enjoy. For without
unity of action, however excellent our principles, we are continu¬
ally exposed to the attacks of the unenlightened, who may even
imagine that they would do God a service in attempting, if they
could, our destruction.
Some have urged that because certain organisations have proved
cruel and tyrannical, therefore ours must become so. They over¬
look the distinguishing fact that, unlike those bodies, our office¬
bearers are elected annually by ballot, and that our governing
principles are more conformable to Nature and her universal rules.
Feb. 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST. 75
Organisation is the chief sign of life, energy, and power. Under
it we shall become aware of our strength; without it we know
our feebleness. The utility of our organisation has never been
more amply justified than in what we have witnessed in a recent
crisis. Effectually to defend mediums from prosecution, and our
cause from dishonour and persecution, we should marshal our
numbers under some more complete system, so as to present a
perfect and well-disciplined front; and when the extent of our
numbers, as well as of our quality, is better known, we shall be
more respected and treated as a power in the State. One effect
of organisation is visible in the respectful attention of the Govern¬
ment. Had there been no permanent organisation, the waste of
time, money, and the general confusion in taking public action
would have been great, and the Treasury might have said of any
Committee hastily put together that it was not a representative
body; whilst those who elected it in undue haste might have said
the same. Unquestionably an efficient permanent organisation,
giving all its members a voice and a vote in the public business
of the movement, increases order and strength, whilst disintegra¬
tion is synonymous with weakness and inefficiency. Another
result of organisation is the improved attitude of the press. The
conspiracy of silence is passing rapidly away. The chief organs
of public opinion treat us fairly, and some of them even with
a magnanimity marked with friendship; others, through a
groundless fear of injuring their circulation, frown on us
with disdain; while some again exhibit hatred and vexation,
which are the uniform sign of bigotry. These last stand greatly
in need of our compassion, for they float wildly on the ocean of
ignorance.
Spiritualists of all grades, children of light and truth, possessing
advantages of knowledge and experience above their fellows,
incur serious responsibility in holding aloof from organisation.
Throughout the country there should be established organisations
of Spiritualists who should correspond with and become affiliated
to our central association.
The utility of organisation is being sensibly acknowledged in
the United States; besides the National Convention of Spirit¬
ualists, other societies are being formed in various parts, and
some of them evince signs of vigour and completeness worthy of
admiration.
One of the most effectual means of popularising the facts relating
to our higher nature is the expansion or widening of our organisa¬
tion, and all Spiritualists, wherever residing, should do what they
can to strengthen it, if only for the purpose of securing the bulwark
of the future against that worst of plagues, the corrupt doctrines
enunciated by certain daring but unconscious impostors, who in the
name of science deny the existence of God and the immortality
of man. Well may the aged philosopher of Chelsea lament the
condition of society when he says, “ Ah, it’s a sad, a terrible thing
to see nigh a whole generation of men and women professing to
be cultivated, looking around in a purblind fashion, and finding
no God in the universe.” In order to show the reasonableness,
nay the high value and necessity of the doctrine of Immortality,
I would refer to a passage in the life of John Stuart Mill. This
distinguished scholar, in his autobiography, describes a crisis in
his mental history which suddenly brought him to the verge of
despair. He says, “ It occurred to me to put the question directly
to myself, Suppose that all your objects in life were realised, that
all the changes in institutions and opinions, which you are looking
forward to, could be completely effected at this very instant,
would this be a very great joy and happinsss to you ? And an
irrepressible self-consciousness distinctly answered, No. At this,”
he proceeds, “ my heart sunk within me. The whole foundation
on which my life was constructed fell down. All my happiness
was to have been found in the continual pursuit of this end. The
end had ceased to charm, and how could there ever again be any
interest in the means 1 I seemed to have nothing left to live for.”
And equally so would it be with most reflecting minds. The fal¬
lacy under which this philosopher laboured at that period of his
life was the limitation of his views to the narrow horizon of earth;
whereas, had he clung to the doctrines of immortality and eternal
progression, he might have found immediate undisturbed tran¬
quility and happiness.
Well may the Spiritualist say with the Psalmist, “Thy testi¬
monies are my delight and my counsellors.” How great, how
full, how many-sided are our evidences for immortality. What a
grand truth, what a glorious idea, to live in the strong conviction
that we shall meet again in another world those we love and have
loved on earth. Can men of science offer the afflicted any solace
compared to this ? And if not, why disturb so innocent an
enjoyment ? Were it the merest delusion, why rob the believer
of such unparalleled comfort 1 The phenomena of Spiritualism
are not given to deceive nor betray. Ingrained in human nature
throughout the world, spirituality demands development, or
!man cannot reach the highest type of the race. The most explicit
suggestions of nature cannot be disregarded with impunity, but
if duly taken to account will produce inestimable blessings.
Reverence for the active invisible intelligences tends to keep our
hearts alive in sympathy with them; and a system, of practical
purification might well proceed from this- awe-inspiring source.
And again, what is greater, better, and holier than to under¬
stand the origin of religion, and through its channel to be daily
quickened in a living, vigorous and practical faith 1 For it is im¬
portant to have brought home to our mind’s sense impressions of
the phenomena, as by the operation we are raised into a higher
existence., We are lifted up above the purely physical to the
study and contemplation of subjects which give nobility to our
thoughts, our actions, and our lives. An inner world, a higher
life is revealed where an intellectual activity is excited to the
attainment of a purer love and a loftier standard of morality and
truth. Wherever virtue is loved and iniquity hated, wherever
hearts are open and no secrets are hid, there will Spiritualism be
welcome, and purity, consolation, and strength will follow; there,
also, will recklessness give place to sobriety of thought and action.
The experience of the past comes down through the channels of
Spiritualism, as a potent means of warning, guiding, and con¬
trolling all the chief affairs of life. It is only from the phenomena
working in our midst that the social fabric, already so rudely
shaken, can be protected against the great evils which threaten it.
A thousand Acts of Parliament will be found less efficacious to
turn the people from any particular vice than the knowledge of
Spiritualism.
While these considerations so mightily move us, the attitude of
others appears unaccountably strange. Men of science, having
contributed largely to destroy the structure of Religion, seem in
| no hurry to build on any foundation where the soul enters into
i observation and care. Instead of furnishing some stimulus to the
| formation of virtue, they uproot the only infallible source and
standard of rectitude. The very idea of God’s existence is
| extinguished along with man’s immortality. And more singular
| still, the clergy, as a body, look silently on. While there is a
| rapid disintegration of all the moral influences now employed in
■ the Church, and its dogmas are exhumed and, like-worthless
] dust, cast to the winds, the clergy should see that their power
| must inevitably give way to a better system, to a higher develop-
i ment, and that the time is come when they should take up
| seriously the education of man’s higher nature. The Church
| would do herself and society real benefit if she would examine
whence and in what manner her own power for good was origi-
| nally derived, and in what it really consists 1 What of inspira-
| tion, and healing, and its other testimonies, known as miracles ?
i Amidst the strife of words and deeds, let it be ever well
jjj understood that the chief purpose of Spiritualism is to impart a
i n spiritual nature. To become spiritual-minded is the great lesson—
nj to attend to spiritual in an equal degree with physical things, for
](| to the latter we have given hitherto overmuch thought. In a
j|| word, we have to adjust in a fair balance the proportion of atten-
1 (f tion to be given to each, so as to satisfy justly the claims of our
l|l twofold nature.
j(j Let us hope that both the cleric and the man of science will,
| ! before long, obtain a truer sense of their position and responsi-
j j bilities; and, laying their prejudices aside, enter closely,
||| patiently, and devoutly into a study of the marvellous pheno-
| (j mena of nature called Spiritualistic.
j}| Meanwhile, unmoved by their indifference, let us go firmly
j|j onward, having God, Immortality, and Eternal Progression as
Wj our everlasting Truth.
A PAPER BY MR. THOMAS SHORTER—SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY: A REPUTATION OP
PSEUDO-SCIENTIFIC THEORIES.
On Thursday morning, last week, the proceedings of the Conference began
under the presidency of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Oerald, M.S.Tel.E., and Mr.
Thomas Shorter read the following paper:—
| It^s often said that there is nothing in Spiritualism absolutely new, and this is
j true so far as the general fact of spirit intercourse is concerned, and even as to
most of the principal phases of it with which we are now familiar. The visible
• appearance of spirits, the manifestation of their presence and agency by sights and
i sounds, the movement of objects and persons, the entrancement of sensitives, com¬
munication by dream and vision, writing and drawing, inspiration and speech, the
impression of forms and characters on material substances, with visions in crystals,
i mirrors, polished steel, and other bright surfaces, were all known centuries ago.
i They are to be found alike in the oldest Spiritualism and in the newest.
Still, the present movement may be considered as in some important respects a
i new departure; the veil of artificial mystery that had surrounded all spiritual
j intercourse has been rent in twain from the top to the bottom. It is no longer the
I exclusive privilege of a few initiates, who had to protect themselves by artifice
I and secrecy from, brutal outrage and persecution, the effects of ignorance and
! superstition. A system of spiritual telegraphy has been introduced and its
i practice widely diffused. Spiritualism has been introduced in a scientific age, is
i prosecuted in a scientific spirit, and by scientific methods. It is now, like
| chemistry, a subject of experimental research, conducted by men of science
i eminently qualified for the work. Its phenomeua are classified, and the. condi-
j tions favouring their production are carefully observed and recorded. If science
is only methodised knowledge, Spiritualism may fairly claim to be on its way, and
i rapidly growing to a science.
76
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 16, 1877,
There are, too, I think, some phases of modern Spiritualism absolutely unique.
One of these is that of obtaining in melted paraffin, from which plaster casts are
afterwards taken, moulds of materialised spirit-hands, feet, and sometimes even
of the face. They are such as would belong to persons of both sexes, are various
in size and shape, and present all the delicate markings of the cuticle and other
characteristics of the natural member. They have been microscopically
examined; they have been examined by experts. They have been obtained in the
presence of an investigating committee, with the materials placed in a box ex¬
pressly constructed, and bolted, locked, and sealed. The wax has been accurately
weighed before the experiment, and again immediately after it, and the difference
in weight has been exactly that of the moulds taken. They have been repeatedly
obtained in London, Manchester, Portsmouth, and in the leading cities of the
United States. I understand that casts of some of them may be seen at the
rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street; and at the Spiritual Institute, 15, Southampton-row.
Another phase of modern Spiritualism, so far as I know without parallel or
precedent, is that of spirit-photography. It is one so astounding that I am not
surprised at any incredulity shown concerning it, especially by those who have
had no experience, in other forms of spirit manifestation preceding and leading up
to it. And this incredulity would of course be confirmed by the occasional im¬
posture and self-deception from which neither Spiritualism nor any form of
human experience can be wholly free. But after eliminating all that may be
spurious, or doubtful, a large residuum still remains. There are so many con¬
fluent streams of independent testimony, the evidence has been so continuous,
abundant, and consentaneous, that either spirit-photography must be recognised,
or the validity of testimony in the matter must be denied. I do not, propose
to argue this question now; it has been so often and fully considered
in the Spiritual Magazine and other journals of the kind, especially in the late able
series of papers by “ M.A. Oxon.,” in Human Nature, that I may refer the inquirer
to these for further Satisfaction, and if not content with testimony he may, with a
little perseverance, obtain direct personal experience of its truth for himself at
first hand. But assuming the truth of spirit-photography, as I Consider I am
justified in doing by the evidence referred to, and, I may add, by my own experi¬
ences, I purpose to point out briefly some of its bearings on pseudo-scientific
theories invented to explain away the spiritual significance of the phenomena
alleged to be spiritual manifestations. Some of these, I think, need hardly be
specified in this connection. Snapping of toe and ankle joints, and involuntary
muscular pressure, offered as solutions of the earlier mysteries of the spirit-circle,
are obviously out of court as an explanation, of the spirit-photograph, or, it may
be added, of anything else, except the eagerness with which professors grasp at
any hypothesis that may discredit spiritual agency in this modern time. But there
are still theories that may profitably claim attention, and for the sake of economy
and convenience, I shall group together those of the same family; they may, if
they can, help each other against their common enemy the spirit-photograph, who,
however, I think, will yet put them to the rout.
In 1852 Dr. Rogers, of Boston, published his philosophy of mysterious agents,
human and mundane, elaborating with much ability and ingenuity a theory to
cover and explain those startling phenomena whose unexpected appearance had so
startled and bewildered all classes of American society. These phenomena, he
ascribed to a force, emanating from all bodies, more especially the human organism,
and to Which Baron Reichenbach had given the name Od. This force, he argues,
might be controlled either by the will or by the unconscious action of the brain,
simulating intelligence, which he admitted was apparently associated with the
phenomena. This theory found much favour both in America and in England, and
the controversy to which it gave rise occupies considerable space in the early his¬
tory of Spiritualism. It is little heard of now, but its spirit has been reincarnated
in other forms, under the,names “Nerve-fluid,” “Nerve-aura,” and “Psychic
Eor'Ce.” These theories all spring from the same root; they all ascribe the phe¬
nomena of Spiritualism to agencies human and mundane, to the exclusion of all
spiritual intelligence ab extra.
Now, apart from all other objection, it appears to mo that these theories are each
and all effectually demolished by the spirit-photograph. No one capable of re¬
flection will, I think, seriously contend that any mere force, physiological or
psychical, can shape itself into the human form, put on the lineaments of a de¬
parted friend, and imprint itself on the photographic plate. And if I am told that
it may be governed and guided to this result by those still in the flesh, I simply
say, “ Prove it.” Spirit-photography was yet in the future when Dr. Rogers pro¬
pounded his elastic theory, but which even then had been drawn to its utmost
tension. Were he still in terrestrial life, I think he would hardly have stretched
it still further in a desperate attempt to make it cover this and other later develop¬
ments, of what has been called “ the modern mystery ”—a task so manifestly
beyond its powers.
Another class of pseudo-scientific theories disposed of by the spirit-photograph,
is represented by the phrases “ unconscious cerebration,” “ dominant ideas,”
“ mental expectancy,” and “ prepossession.” To attribute these powers to our
friend the photographic camera may be very complimentary, but it does not happen
to possess them. It has no cerebrum, and cannot cerebrate cither consciously or
unconsciously. It is not dominated by any ideas, has no expectations, and is
entirely free from either prepossession or prejudice, which is more than can be
said for the authors of ingenious theories who attempt to explain away unwelcome
facts. •
ill I am remii ded that these physiological and mental acts and states pertain to
the sitter, I ask, even if it be so, how can these, without direct manipulation,
imprint themselves on the sensitive plate into a perfect and clearly visible por¬
trait ? What proof is there that they do so ? Let any physiologist, or other
scientific person, test this dominant idea by experiment, and with mental expect¬
ancy abide the issue. Unquestionably, recognised spirit-portraits are sometimes
obtained, and this is the crowning and conclusive proof of their genuineness; I
suppose the true believer generally goes for a spirit-portrait with this dominant
idea, but generally the result does not conform to this prepossession. His mental
expectancy is doomed to disappointment; the dominant idea does not dominate.
The portrait which appears on the plate beside his own may have been obtained
under the strictest test conditions. But he cannot identify it. If this unantici¬
pated unrecognised form has been projected by his cerebration, he is certainly
unconscious of it.
Again, we are assured on high scientific authority, that Spiritualists are the
victims of hallucination; that the phenomena of Spiritualism, so far as they are
genuine, are purely subjective; the product of excited imagination, or of some
abnormal state, like that of the mesmerised sensitive, as seen in the familiar
experiments of what is known as electro-biology—in which the senses and
faculties of the sensitive are under the control of the operator, and give no true or
reliable report of objective realities. Well, let us put the photographic camera
into the witness-box: it is an unexceptionable witness, of good character and
strict veracity; is quite disinterested and impartial, free from passion and from
prejudice; has no imagination to be excited, is not subject to hallucination, cannot
be biologised: it does not depend on memory; its notes are all taken at the time,
and on the spot: it will tell its tale in its own way; and can neither be bribed
nor bullied, cajoled nor intimidated. Its testimony is always the .same and never
varies; it can be brought into any court at any time; and its evidence is most
explicit and absolutely conclusive in the present instance. If Spirituahsts are
hallucinated, all who see this evidence at once share in the hallucination—a species
of epidemic delusion Dr. Carpenter does not seem to have taken into account. In
brief, I maintain that the spirit-photograph can hold its own, and maintain the
truth and honour of Spiritualism against all comers. It is but a pasteboard shield,
but it is strong enough to withstand all assault and break every opposing lance.
In its weakness and humility it confounds the mighty and the proud; it yields
! ! ' satisfaction to the honest and inquiring sceptic, is a solace to the bereaved, a
; witness for immortality, and a refutation of _pse-Mcfo-scientific theories—the mere
; wastrel of science.
] THE DISCUSSION — THE PHOTOGRAPHING OP THE SPIRIT OP SIR WILLIAM
BAYNES—PHOTOGRAPHING THE DOUBLE OP A MEDIUM—THE PHOTOGRAPHING
OP THE SPIRIT OP THE WIFE OF MR. LIVERMORE, THE NEW YORK BANKER.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, the Chairman, said : Much discussion in relation
I to spirit photography has taken place among Spiritualists, and the questions
! at issue have been greatly complicated by the want of character of some of
j the professors of the art. In this branch of the subject, as in others, Spirit¬
ualism has had to suffer from the misdeeds of its mediums. I had conclusive
j evidence years ago in relation to spirit-photography. At a seance held at
I home, the name of a departed relation of mine was given, and he came at
j several subsequent sittings. His name was Sir William Baynes. One day
he said that he thought that he could give us his photograph, and we arranged
with him that at a certain time some of us would go to Hudson’s to obtain the
likeness. The ladies of my family had seen Hudson once or twice before, but
he had no notion that we were coming on that particular day, nor did he
I know the object of the visit. My mother and wife went to Hudson’s; the
photograph was obtained, and it is so clearly that of the spirit whose name
was given to us, that I venture to say that .any tradesman of the late Sir
William Baynes would,recognise it at once as his likeness,
j Mr. A. Glendinning: About twelve years ago I tried to get spirit-photo-
i graphs with a friend who is a good medium, and we obtained several. At
I first we obtained curious iharkings on the plates, and had I had more
experience I should have preserved those plates for careful subsequent
| examination, but, as a matter of fact, whenever we developed no distinct por-
I trait, I rubbed my fingers across the plate, and put it in the wash-tub. Mr.
I Melhuish, secretary to one of the Scotch photographic societies, supplied us
1 with the glasses and chemicals, and everything was done in good faith among
I private people. In one instance wo obtained a portrait of the medium, in the
| same position which he had occupied about ten or fifteen minutes before the
plate was exposed, and when he was half-way between the camera and the
| background. We had in the room the kind of planchette known as an
! “ Indicator,” which spelt out rapidly what we were to do, for the spirits said that
j they, at first, did not know how to produce the pictures, and that they had to
I try experiments; they told us to mesmerise the camera, chemicals, and so on.
i We did what they told us, partly as a matter of amusement, and partly as a
I matter of interest. When we questioned them why we obtained a portrait of
| the medium in a position he had occupied before the plate was exposed in the
i camera, they said that he had left his “ influence ” on the spot, and that had
i a clairvoyant been in the room he would have seen him there. I do not
I understand this, but it was all the explanation we could get. I have had
j several spirit-pictures done by Mr. Parkes, in whom I have every confidence.
| Once when I sat for him I was humming a hymn containing lines about angels
i bending their wings o’er us, and upon the plate came a female form with
| wings, I suppose in consequence of my thoughts having some influence upon
i the resulting picture. I did not recognise her features, but have every
| reason to believe that all that was done by Mr. Parkes was done in good faith.
I The Chairman: The anatomical monstrosity of wings would have been
j difficult to account for without Mr. Glendinning’s explanation.
] Miss Kislingbury : Last night Mr. Calder, in his presidential address, told
! you how Mr. J. Hartman had obtained a spirit photograph under test condi-
| tions. I have spme copies of that picture here, so they may be interesting
! to you to look at. They contain the following printed certificate on the
j back
TEST SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPH.
! This picture was made December 25th, 1875, in Cincinnati, by Jay J. Hartman, under
I the most rigid test conditions, in a gallery he had never visited before, with camera, glass,
| and’chemicals of a sceptical photographer. All of the manipulations of the plate were done
! by a sceptical photographer, Mr. Hartman simply standing by the side of the camera,
I with his hand resting thereon, never entering the dark room, nor at any time seeing or
! handling the plate, and all the time closely watched by sixteen respectable, intelligent
j gentlemen.
j “ Cincinnati, December 25th, 1875.
i "We, the undersigned, having taken part in the public investigation of spirit photo-
I graphing given by Mr. Jay J. Hartman, hereby certify that we have closely examined and
i watched the manipulation of our own marked plates, through all the various workings in
| and out of the dark room, and have been unable to discover any sign of fraud or trickery
j on the part of Mr. Jay J. Hartman.
j “ We further certify that during the last sitting when this result was obtained, Mr. Jay J.
i Hartman did not handle the plate, or enter the dark room at any time.
“J. Slatter, V. Cutler, E. Saunders, Jos. Kinsey, E. Hopkins, J. S. P. Gelpert, Robert
| Leslie, Wm. Warrington, Benj. E. Hopkins, 0. A. Carnahan, D. M, Morrow, M.D., J. P.
! Weckman, F. T. Moreland, Theodore Teeple, W. Y. Sullivan."
) Mr. W. H. Harrison: I agree with all that Mr. Shorter and Mr. Fitz-Gerald
I have said. As a scientific amateur, I have had great experience in nearly all
! branches of photography. I have taken some thousands of pictures in my
I time, and for the last ten years I have been an article writer for one of the
! photographic journals. My opinion is that although in exceptional cases
j spirit photography furnishes about the best evidence of the truth of spiritual
j phenomena, in the majority, of cases it does not do so, and it is, generally
! speaking, surrounded by such conditions that the study of it can only bo
i pursued in private. In other words, recognisable portraits of deceased friends
j unknown to the photographer—the production of which cannot be accounted
I for on any imposture theory—are the exception. Unrecognisable and indis-
! tinct pictures are the rule, and as these latter can usually be imitated with
j ease by numerous methods of producing sham ghosts well known to photo-
j graphers, the medium is safe to be assumed to be a trickster by the public,
I and when his pictures are genuine the populace will not give him the benefit
1 of any doubt, he will be unable to obtain an honest hearing in the newspapers,
j and any court of law will pronounce him an impostor. A good instance of
j the production of a recognisable spirit picture was the case in which Mr.
j Livermore, a partner in one of the largest banks in New York, went to
i Mumler, the spirit photographer in that city, and obtained an unmistakable
; likeness of his departed wife, who was unknown to the man through whose
I mediumship the picture was produced. Mumler was prosecuted as an im-
[ postor, and the expenses of the prosecution were shifted upon the backs of
| the public, as usual in these cases; but the evidence was so strong that this
I ■ likeness did not come through any trickery of his own, that in spite of all
! I prejudices the case was dismissed. In England he would probably have
ii j been condemned. •
11 j Mr. Thomas Shorter remarked that what Mr. Glendinning had said about
i | ! the photographing of the human double reminded him of the case of a friend
i j of his, a clairvoyant, who, upon entering an empty compartment of a railway
| I carriage, saw in it several people who had been sitting there some time
!G before. He did not think the yalue of spirit photography was much lessened
Feb. 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
because such, a small proportion of the pictures was recognised. Many of
the pictures were taken by persons not pecuniarily interested.
The Chairman proposed a vote of thanks to Mr. Shorter for his paper.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman: I have much pleasure in seconding the vote of
thanks to Mr. Shorter. Mr. Livermore sent me the likeness of his wife. He
wanted to disprove the fact of spirit-photography, and went to Mumler for
that purpose ; he also twisted himself just before the cap was taken off the
camera that he might upset any arrangements possibly made by Mumler to
bring out a spirit on the plate in an attitude bearing some relation to his first
position. There is no doubt that it was a perfect likeness of Mr. Livermore’s
wife, recognised by all his friends. Mr. Livermore was no enthusiast in
making these things known, and only came forward to state the facts in the'
witness-box at the earnest request of Judge Edmonds. Mumler was conse¬
quently acquitted.
The vote of thanks was given by acclamation.
A PAPEn BY ME. T. P. BAEKAS—PHOTO GEAPHtNG A MATEEIALISED POEM—THE
PEESECOTION OP MEDIUMS BY PEOFESSED MEN OF SCIENCE—THE SCIENTIFIC
ASPECTS OF THE ALLEGED MODEEN SPIEITUAL PHENOMENA—EXTEAOEDINAEY
APPEAEANCE OF MATEEIALISED SPIEITS.
The following paper by Mr. T. P. Barkas, P.G.S., of Newcastle-on-Tyne, was
then read by the Secretary:—
There can be little doubt that the vast majority of those who enter upon the
examination of the phenomena commonly known as modern Spiritual manifesta¬
tions, have arrived at the conclusion that they are produced by supra-mundane
agencies, but a certain proportion of those who have examined them, and accept
their genuineness, have either reached an entirely opposite conclusion, and believe
them to be the result of occult natural laws, or that the evidence is insufficient to
justify them in accepting either the mundane or the supra-mundane hypothesis.
The latter section, therefore, leave the theory which shall cover and interpret the
phenomena an open question.
It is not my intention to express an opinion as to the theory that appears most
satisfactorily to cover the entire facts, but I desire to place before you a record of
such phenomena as justify my acceptance of their reality and genuineness, and
offer strong grounds for urging their examination by the most highly-trained
scientific minds.
In all periods of the history of the world phenomena such as those I am about
to describe are recorded as having occurred spontaneously, on many occasions,
and on every portion of the habitable globe. Making every allowance for the
exaggeration which frequently occurs in descriptions of extraordinary phehomena,
t would appear that there is, nevertheless, a large residuum of fact in those that
kav6 been recorded as taking place during the whole historical period.
Marvellous as were the phenomena, they appear not to have been extensively
nvestigated until the advent of what has been termed modern Spiritualism; the
reason probably being that, in past ages, the reign of law, the correlation of forces,
and the inviolability of physical laws, were not so well understood—scepticism,
therefore, as to the interposition of supra-mundane agencies was less rampant
than in our own day, and the phenomena were accepted as genuine, without
critical investigation. Now, however, all phenomena must demonstrate their
right to acceptance, and especially those that assert claims to supra-mundane
origin.
The opponents of the reality of these phenomena may attempt to defend their
position in two ways—viz.: First, by examining the phenomena and endeavouring
to discover the means by which they are produced, and producing them under
similar conditions; and, second, by calling into requisition hitherto obsolete laws,
and endeavouring to suppress the facts by the persecution of the agents through
whom they occur.
The former, although not the highest or most commendable course that might
be adopted, is, nevertheless, perfectly justifiable; but the second, in view of the
evidence that has already been adduced by credible and competent witnesses as
to the genuineness of the phenomena, is simply impertinence and imbecility.
If the phenomena be genuine, and the vast majority, if not the whole of those
who have thoroughly examined them, believe that they are, then legal prosecution
by the stretch of antiquated, unabolished law, is the act of a coward and simpleton,
and the facts which are attempted to be repressed will spread throughout a wider
area, and be investigated under conditions which antiquated and absurd laws will
not reach, and cowardly opponents will have no sphere for the exercise of their
mistaken ingenuity.
To prosecute promoters of truth in relation to occult phenomena, notwithstand-
i ng the antagonism of the public, and especially when the phenomena are not
limited to any special class or social grade but may be developed by any earnest
investigator in the privacy of his own home, is in the last degree absurd, and is
certain to extend a knowledge of the reality of the phenomena in question.
The only justifiable mode of suppressing supposed errors, is by exposing their
fallacy, under conditions perfectly analogous to those in which they take place.
Conditions lie at the root of all valuable research, and it is probable, nay almost
certain, that difference in conditions has aggravated the germ and no germ con¬
troversy, which for some time has excited the scientific world. This has lately
been proved by Professor Tyndall.
I propose, without broaching any theory, to place before you facts as well
authenticated as are any occult psychological or physical phenomena with which
we are familiar.
I shall state the conditions under which the phenomena took place, refer any
respectable person to those who were present during their occurrence, and give
reasons for their objective reality such as I think would be perfectly satisfactory
to any body of gentlemen who have not arrived at the conclusion that such
phenomena are impossible, and incompatible with the laws of nature.
I could give personal testimony to the reality of independent motions of material
bodies, independent writing, and many of the ordinary phenomena which are said
to occur at seances, but I shall best consult your feelings and the interest of the
movement we have met to promote by directing your attention to two or three of
the more prominent facts, in a long series of phenomena which have come under
my personal observation during twenty-four years of almost hypercritical investi¬
gation of this much controverted subject. Nothing short of personal examina¬
tion under crucial tests could khave influenced tme to accept the phenomena as
genuine.
The only effect of credible testimony would have been to induce investigation,
not to produce conviction, and that in reality is precisely the course that all sensible
investigators desire unbelievers to follow.
I shall confine my descriptions to one of the more extraordinary physico-
psychical phases of these remarkable manifestations, viz., materiahsation of alleged
spirit-forms, out of previously invisible matter, under various test conditions, the
evidence in each of the cases being to me perfectly satisfactory as to their reality
and genuineness. They cannot under the conditions be referable to optical illusion,
nor indeed to the illusion of any of the senses, except on the hypothesis that all
sense impressions are illusions and have not their origin in any objective reality.
These phenomena rest upon the same bases as do the recognitions of colour and
sound, and all other facts in physico-psychology. I propose, 1st. To describe a
seance at which.a materialised form was photographed. 2nd. Materialisation in an
open room with the medium sitting in the .centre of the circle of sitters, the
materialised forms growing out of apparent nothingness. All these phenomena
took place either in lamplight, gaslight, or amidst the blaze of the mag¬
nesium light.
The mediums were Misses Wood and Fairlamb; seance room, the private draw¬
ing room of a Newcastle merchant, and the meeting on the evening of Friday,
Feb. 19th, 1875.
There were present in the circle four ladies and seventeen gentlemen, inclusive
of the photographer and his son.
One corner of the room, on the right of the fireplace, was partitioned off by a
four-folding screen as a recess. Within the area enclosed by the screen were two
cushions on which the mediums reclined. The mediums, who wore dark dresses
and were covered with dark cloaks, entered the recess at 8,27. The mirror over
the mantelpiece and the fireplace were draped with dark green cloth as a background
for photographic purposes. A chair was placed opposite the fireplace, at about 30
inches from the edge of the folding door of the screen, which when opened per¬
mitted egress from the recess.
The magnesium lamp, to be used for photographic purposes was placed on a small
round table near the screen, and Mr. Laws, sen., sat on a chair near it; for the pur¬
pose of manipulating the light when it was required. A square piano, about eight
feet long, was drawn forward to a distance of about ten feet from the fireplace, and
was placed in the centre of the room. On the piano was placed a photographic
camera, which was focussed for the space between the screen and the chair already
referred to. Three pieces of white paper were pinned to the green cloth covering
the fireplace, at the height of the mantel-shelf, which is exactly four feet high.
These papers were placed, as may be seen on the photographs, for the purpose of
indicating the height of the figure that was expected to appear.
The sitters sat in rows at each end of and behind the piano. I sat at the left end
of the piano and immediately opposite the folding edge of the screen, out of which
the psychic form was expected to come.
All the sitters took hold of hands; the lights were turned down until we sat in
comparative darkness. For about an hour we sat in this dim light, and during that
time Pocky and Cissy, the controls of the respective mediums, both talked with
us in an amusing and sometimes very logical manner. At 9.30 we were told by
knockings, and by the voice of a medium under control, that the gas was to be
turned up, the spirit-lamp used by the photographer to be lighted in order to
accustom the psychic who intended to appear to bear a quantity of light, having a
near approach to the bright magnesium light to be used for photographing.
Spirit lamp, gas, and photographer’s candle were all lighted, and we sat .in a well
lighted room.
At about 9.40 we were told to prepare the photographic plate, and make ready
for the appearance of the apparition. As soon as the plate was prepared, and an
intimation to that effect given, the folding door of the screen was pushed open,
and a small female figure, or at least a figure draped like a female, emerged from
behind the screen ; she stood near the edge of the open fold of the screen opposite
the camera, and at one side of the magnesium wire, which was at once ignited.
We then saw her in the full blaze of the magnesium light.
Her garments were very profuse, and covered her entire person, with the excep¬
tion of her face and arms, both of which were dark-brown, approaching black,
although one arm appeared darker than the other. The garment had the appear¬
ance of plain muslin, which fell over her in long rolling folds, and was not in the
least rumpled or soiled, as would have been the case had it been placed within
small compass. Her face was dark brown, somewhat like that of a dark half-
caste ; the eyes were large, and the lids were large and heavy; the white parts of
the eyes appeared dull and suffused with blood like the eye of an ordinary negro;
the nose was large, being both long and broad; the lips were full and heavy, and
had a vermilion redness of colour, they moved languidly, and not like the rapid
movements of ordinary Caucasian lips, but with a motion more than usually slow
for a negro. The face was not prepossessing, far from it; it had a blank, half-
timid, and at the same time amused expression, like that of an uneducated person
quite unaccustomed to society entering into the presence of critical strangers.*
When the magnesium light was shining fully upon her, I saw her face quite dis¬
tinctly for several seconds, but she gradually turned it away from the light, which
appeared to overpower her, and in the first photograph only a small portion of the
space occupied by the face is seen, and the features are quite invisible. The dark
shadows about the dress of the figure in the photograph are the dark shadows
thrown by the folds of the garment, the magnesium light being at one side of the
figure. The exposure in this case was about ten seconds.
After the figure had retired, we received a promise that she would endeavour to
appear again. Another photographic plate was prepared, and all was in readiness
for her second appearance, r
On this occasion she faced us more fully than on the previous visit, and the face
closely resembled that I had previously seen and have described. She made an
apparently great effort to maintain her position facing the camera, but gradually
turned her face from the light, and photograph No. 2 is also blurred. This ex¬
posure was twelve seconds.
We again requested her to stand and endeavour to keep her face steadily
opposite to the camera; this she promised to do on condition that the members of
the circle would close their eyes, and that the photographer and his assistant
should alone look at her while the photograph was being taken. To this we
agreed, and another plate was prepared, but before it was quite ready we were
told that one of the mediums behind the screen would be led out by her control
and sit upon the vacant chair for the purpose of giving power to the psychic
while she underwent the photographic ordeal.
One medium, covered in her dark cloak, automatically moved from behind the
screen and sat upon the chair opposite the camera. All now being ready, the small
psychic form again appeared and stood near the clothed medium. The sitters,
according, to promise, closed their eyes, and photograph No. 3 was taken. It
exhibits a faint outline of the face, which bears an indistinct but manifest
resemblance to the face I saw during the time the first and second photographs
were be ing t iken. The third exposure occupied about fourteen seconds.
Psychic a id medium retired within the recess at 10.25, and so great had been
the strain upon the mediumistic powers of the two mediums that it was an hour
before they were restored to their normal conditions, and they complained of
being much exhausted.
It may be said, and that with some appearance of propriety, that in this case
there were no tests used, such fer example, as undressing and redressing the
mediums, fixing them by strong and secure ligatures to the floor, or examining
their dresses at the conclusion of the seance. All these objections are perfectly
true, but notwithstanding the absence of tests of this kind, the presentation of a
manifestly living human face, entirely different in form and in all its peculiarities
to the faces of the mediums, is evidence sufficient that the form was not an exhi¬
bition of the face of either of the mediums, and that the mobile face was not a mere
mask, but that of a person with all the ordinary characteristics of life. If, however,
there yet remain doubts in the minds of those who hear me, or who may read this
address, they ought to be removed by the phenomena that occurred at the seance
I will now describe.
The said seance was held in a private sitting-room in Newcastle-on-Tyne,
on the evening of Friday, Sept. 3rd, 1875. There were present the lady medium,
her young daughter, another lady, and eight gentlemen, including myself. The
room in which we sat is without closets or recesses of any kind; we screened one
corner of the room by means of a curtain suspended from an iron rod, and we
placed a small deal table without drawers within the recess formed by. the curtain.
The lady medium and her little daughter sat in front of the curtain, and at a dis¬
tance of about five feet from it the nine sitters sat in a quadrant of a circle, ex¬
tending from wall to wall of the room, and completely enclosing the medium and
her little daughter, j
We all therefore gat in the open room, and were quite visible to each other. A
78
THE SPIRITUALIST,
lamp was burning in the room with such brightness that I could see the medium j j!
and all the sitters easily, and could read the time by my watch. After sitting thus i j I
for about fifteen minutes we were told to remove the table from the recess, and !) i
materialisation would take place. The table was removed, and we sat in the jii
■ open room, in the same order as before. After sitting about ten minutes, during j f j
which time I saw the hands of the lady medium fall by her side, a small white | (•[
flickering substance, about the size of a man’s hand, appeared above the knees of j (|
the lady medium; it increased and diminished in size and brightness, and at last j j;
continued to grow until it covered the head, shoulders, and body of the medium in j jj
a fleecy white cloud. It then took a more solid and definite shape, and, descending ; | j
to the floor, appeared like a young female, at least five feet high. This form was 11|
perfectly visible for about fifteen minutes. It gradually declined in height and In
width where it stood, and during the whole of the time I saw the right hand of i (j
the medium hanging passively by her side. The form decreased until it was about i (j
eighteen inches high, and again rose and increased in bulk, but this time it ij!
resembled a stooping old lady, wearing a Quaker bonnet, who moved freely on the I j;
floor, touched the hands of four of the sitters, taking them between her fingers and I li
thumb, and also permitting them to feel her dress. This figure was visible for 1)1
about twenty-five minutes, and at one time it rose to a height of about eight feet, I ij
bending over and overshadowing the medium. The form descended, assumed a jlj
normal size, and, coming forward past the medium, took a hand of one' of the 111
sitters between its finger and thumb. The form then turned to a position opposite 11 j
the medium, at a distance of two feet from her, and gradually declining in size, j .1
flickered away upon the floor. I !
This closed a very remarkable seance, and gave demonstrative evidence of I (j
mediumship and materiahsation to any mind not absolutely blinded by precon- I i!
ception, and utterly incapable of trusting the evidence of its senses. I (|
This description is taken from my diary, in which it was entered on the day i j!
following the seance, when all the phenomena were fresh upon my memory. I j i
On reflection at this distance of time from their occurrence, I see no escape from I ii
their inexorable logic short of denying the evidence of our senses. I j •
The forms were seen to grow by all who were present. They were felt by four. I j I
of the sitters; they appeared and disappeared in the open room. There were no I j I
visible means by which they could be produced by merely optical illusion, and I |j
personally I am as satisfied as to their abnormality, reality, and genuineness as I j j j
am satisfied that the Thames flows beneath London Bridge. I (i
I offer no opinion whatever as to what these strange phenomena mean. Theories ! }j
are generally much too hastily formed, and when once expressed they are liable to i |
bias the judgment. I prefer, therefore, that for some time to come we devote our jj-jj
observations to the discovery of facts, knowing full well that in good time a m
suitable theory, covering the whole ground of the phenomena, will be evolved. j 11
To men of science these phenomena should appeal for examination with over- j i L
whelming power, because if true they appear greatly to extend the recognised laws |1 j
of physics and psychology, and open up a field of research which the philosophers j1 ]
and metaphysicians of all ages have but imperfectly examined, and respecting | j
which they have failed in arriving at any satisfactory and definite conclusion.
THE DISCUSSION—FACT OR UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION ? j|j
The Chairman remarked that, although many of the public asserted ijj
Spiritualism to be a delusion, and said that it was a good thing that mediums I (j
were prosecuted, those who said so had not investigated the subject. The l j|
persons who came into Spiritualism were usually at first strongly opposed to j)l
it, but drawn in by the facts in opposition to their previous convictions. The j jj
paper just read showed how a man of a sceptical frame of mind, after giving j (i
twenty-four years’ attention to the subject, adhered to the conclusion that jji
Spiritualism was founded upon facts. The only newspaper men he had met j jj
with who had abused the subject were those who were so unacquainted with I jj
physics as to be unfit to take their seats in his junior class on that subject; j (l
as a rule they had given no attention at all to the phenomena they had | j
attempted to discredit. , . ■ j j I
Mr. Morse wished to know whether the Research Committee of the National j jj
Association had had similar experiences to those of Mr. Barkas. j j j
The Chairman replied that as yet the experiences of the Committee had not i} j
, been very good, the reason being that when they had to deal with living in- 11 j
telligences they were obliged to conform to the conditions imposed, perhaps j1 i
unnecessarily, by those intelligences, and not to substitute their own. Still, j1 j
he hoped to report some good results. j' j
Mr. Morse had witnessed good manifestations a long time ago through the i, j
mediumship of Miss Wood and Miss Fairlamb in Newcastle. At one of the 11 j
sittings a spirit which came out of the cabinet was in some part dense and in j jl
others almost transparent. j j j
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that in many cases some part of a spirit was !|l
reported to form first, after which the rest grew round it. lamblicus,one of ijj
the best authorities of ancient times on spiritual phenomena, spoke of these I (i
forms thus growing and disappearing. j j j
Mr. Camm stated that he believed in the phenomena, and that the result of j j
his inquiries was that he was inclined to believe in the spiritual origin of the j j j
facts, but had not quite made up his mind. He had been to a seance lately j j
where the name of a town in which he was interested was spelt out, and an j j j
allusion made to some business of his connected with that town. Nothing of I ji
this was known to the medium, nor were any ideas on the subject in his own j j
mind at the time. The name was alleged to be given by the spirit of a person I j
still living in the body. Could this be accounted for on the unconscious cere- j!
bration theory ? j j
The Chairman remarked that unconscious cerebration was a horse which. j j
carried inquirers a little way, and then dropped them ; it would not cover all ! J
the facts. 1 ijj
Mr. Morse asked whether it was known what was the physical condition at I Jl
the time of the man whose spirit professed to communicate? Was the body ijl
asleep, or in a trance? and had the man any knowledge of the business in Ijj
hand? He thought that the production of spiritual manifestations depended j j
upon the degree of power of a particular spirit [present, combined with the j ■;
ability to produce the results. j i j
Mr. Camm replied that his friends were sceptical as to the phenomena, and j j
that they had never heard him mention the name of the town which had been j I
spelt out through the mediumship of one of them. ■ '
A vote of thanks to Mr. Barkas, and to the secretary for reading the paper, j, I
was then passed, and the meeting was adjourned until the evening. j j
A PATER BY MR. R. . PEARCE.—ORGANISATIONS OF SPIRITUALISTS IN LONDON j j j
AND THE PROVINCES—SPIRITUALISM IN LONDON, LANCASHIRE, LIVERPOOL, j I
MANCHESTER, HYDE, LEIGH, OLDHAM, ASHTON-UNDER-LTNE, BOLTON, ROCH- j 1 j
DALE, BARROW-IN-FURNESS, HALIFAX, SOWERBT-BRIDGE, XEIGHLEY, LEEDS, i1 j
HUDDERSFIELD, OSSETT, SHEFFIELD, HULL, GRIMSBY, SALTBURW-BY-THE-SEA, j j
BISHOP AUCKLAND, NEW SHILDON, CHESTER-LE-STREET, SUNDERLAND, SOUTH j 'j
SHIELDS, NEWCASTLE, CHOPPINGTON, GLASGOW, NOTTINGHAM, LEICESTER, j j
NORTHAMPTON, BIRMINGHAM, BRISTOL, CARDIFF, MERTHYR, LLANELLY, PLY- j' j
MOUTH, AND WEST CORNWALL. ji j
At the proceedings on Thursday evening, February 8th, Dr. C. Carter Blake, i)i
Feb. 16, 1877.
Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital, presided, and Mr.
Eichard Pearce read the following paper:—
In the present paper I purpose to speak of Spiritualists rather than of Spirit¬
ualism—that is to say, I do not intend to deal with the scientific or philosophic
phases of Spiritualism, but merely to give a cursory survey of its outward aspect
as a movement, to speak of the number of its adherents, their methods of action
(whether as investigators or propagandists), and especially of the organisation of
Spiritualists, both general and local. ’
Looking at the movement as a whole, I think we may derive much encourage¬
ment from the advance it has made in recent years. There can be no doubt that
the number of Spiritualists is rapidly increasing, both in London and the pro¬
vinces. The attitude of the outside world in itself proves that much advance has
been made; instead of being treated with contempt or silent toleration, with an
occasional silly tirade from one or other of the public journals, we have now two
powerful classes arrayed against us in active opposition—the religious and scien¬
tific worlds. When we consider that science has long been looked on as the arch¬
enemy of religion by the official dignitaries and representatives of the latter, it is
eminently suggestive of the present status of Spiritualism to find parsons and
professors joining hands to crush it and persecute its followers. The attitude now
taken by these bodies will surely be a matter for surprise and wonder in the
future, when Spiritualism has overcome the ignorance, prejudice, and bigotry now
surrounding it, and stands out clearly in the fulness of its own light; it will then
be seen that, instead of being the opponent of religion, Spiritualism comes as a
powerful instigator to religious life and practice, and is capable not only of in¬
fusing fresh life and vigour into systems fast losing their former power and influ¬
ence, but of stamping anew, with the seal of authenticity, the spiritual facts which
are the basis of all religions. To science also our cause may be a powerful
auxiliary; for the Spiritualist, too enlightened to look on the scientific man, in
his proper domain, as adverse to spiritual growth, will welcome him as an ally in
the cause pf human advancement, and, actively co-operating with him, will open
up new fields of work worthy of the highest powers of man’s intellect.
But while we see Spiritualism making rapid strides, and gathering such in¬
herent strength as to arouse strong feelings of antagonism, we become sensible of
the need, on our part, of firmness and increased zeal and activity, individually and
collectively. And if Spiritualism is to pass through a crisis which will test our
strength to the uttermost, it is necessary that we should look within our move¬
ment, and know our weak points as well as our strength. In doing this, I do not
think we have cause for unmixed satisfaction. It is gratifying to know that our
ranks are being constantly recruited by men of a degree of intelligence, command¬
ing the respect of the world, and that the phenomena have reached phases which
challenge the investigation of men of the highest social, literary, and scientific
standing, yet I think we have within us sources of weakness which call for our
serious consideration. One of these, in my opinion, is that we are not united.
“ Unity is strength,” but Spiritualists are divided into factions, and although the
various sections are all working earnestly, and all have one common object, we
have no common action; thus, not only our work as Spiritualists, but our power
of resisting persecution, is weakened.
We have been told that organisation is not in harmony with the principles of
Spiritualism, that a spiritual work cannot be carried on by ordinary material
agencies, and a whole host of evils are held up to our view as the only sure fruit
which can result from any attempt at the organisation of Spiritualists; a great
deal, however, of what has been said and written on this question is very con¬
flicting and indefinite, and not at all applicable to any plan which has been sug¬
gested or attempted.
Organisation is but systematic co-operation, and when we consider the struggles
which Spiritualism 'will have to make, the difficulties to be encountered, and the
powerful combinations which may be brought against us, it is evident that we on
our side cannot work efficiently unless we do so as a united body, joined in one
firm alliance, not only that we may be better able to encounter our opponents, but
also for our mutual aid and encouragement, for the more effectual dissemination of
those truths which are destined to accomplish a great and good work, and that
we ourselves may be in the best condition to receive the further evolution from
the spirit world of those facts and teachings which, when accepted and assimilated
with our lives, make and constitute us Spiritualists. But whilst I firmly believe
in “ friendly united action,” “ systematic co-operation,” or“ organisation ” (call it
what you will), I distinctly repudiate all idea of opposition to any individual, or
any class of Spiritualists. There is no worker, or any section of workers, within
our ranks to whom I cannot give my hearty goodwill, no party in the broad field
of Spiritualism with whom I could not work in the most friendly manner. As
Spiritualists we can work to the fullest extent individually, each doing as seemetli
to him best, carrying out each our own hobbies, or acting up to the best and
noblest of our inspirations, and yet we can and should be all joined in friendly
union for the general good of the whole. I believe this can be done without con¬
flicting with any plan of work now in operation—^without stifling in any degree
our sense of individual responsibility, or curtailing our spheres of personal use¬
fulness. Further, I think we have a basis for such friendly union and co-operation
already in existence in the British National Association of Spiritualists, under
whose auspices we have to-day met together.
It is with this belief that I give some particulars of the associative and other
work which is being carried on, and I venture to hope that such information may
be of interest to those attending this Conference, and that it will assist in bring¬
ing about a better understanding of the most effective means to promote the
general welfare of our cause.
I should here, as a matter of duty, express my grateful acknowledgments to the
many friends who have so kindly responded to my application and supplied mo
with information, with free liberty to use the same in this paper. Many of whom
I before merely knew the names, I now look on as personal friends, so kindly has
been the spirit with which I have been met in my attempt to gather reliable data
as to the progress of Spiritualism and the various modes of action adopted for the
dissemination of its facts and teachings.
As I have already indicated, my object is only to deal with the outer aspects of
Spiritualism; I would, however, say to those whose knowledge of the subject is
but slight, that all which is most worth knowing and most worth seeking for, is
that which i« most hidden. It is only in private home circles that the higher
phases of Spiritualism become apparent, and its teachings best understood. No
idea of its true beauty and utility is to be gained until its inner life is reached.
Formed in 1873, in accordance with a resolution passed at a National Confer¬
ence of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, the British National Association of
Spiritualists has steadily and surely advanced on a career of public usefulness;
it may be said to be now in good working order, and has several hundred members
scattered over all parts of the kingdom, and has also corresponding members in
all parts of the world. Working solely with a view to the good of Spiritualism,
its constitution is so framed as to prevent any undue centralisation of power, or
the assumption of authority by any one individual. Friends now visiting these
rooms for the first time will see that the Association is installed in a comfortable
home, and also that it has large and valuable reference and lending libraries.
These rooms, open daily, afford visitors and inquirers facilities not to be had
elsewhere. As an instance of the special work of the Association, I would refer to
the labours of its Eesearch Committee, who are carrying on inquiries of the
utmost interest and value; there have been also the free seances, provided by the
liberality of Mr. Blackburn, which have given means for investigation under the
most favourable conditions. The monthly soirees of the Association not only give
opportunities for the exchange of personal views and for friendly intercourse, but
also serve as one of the best means of initiating inquirers into our movement. The
moral effect which the Association has had cannot well be estimated, and the
Feb. 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
79
influence it has thus exerted has been beneficial to'all Spiritualist^, of what¬
ever class or locality. It aims at the good of all, its spirit is friendly to all, and I
hope this same friendly spirit will be evinced towards it by all classes of our
fellow-workers. I have not now time to enter into suggestions for the further
extension of its work. I may only say that it rests with those who have not yet
identified themselves with the Association to reciprocate its advances ; the best
means of carrying this co-operation into further practical use can be best ascer¬
tained when common interest in the_ Association has first been secured, and
common wants made known.
Pour of our local societies have already entered into alliance with the British
National Association, the Dalston and Brixton Societies in London, and the Liver¬
pool and Cardiff Societies.
Of the London local societies the oldest is the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, established in 1870. It holds experimental seances weekly, the
last meeting in each month being usually of a special character. It offers many
advantages to its own members, and initiated a plan for reciprocating privileges
between members of different societies. It has also an excellent library. This
society is carrying on a very useful work, and owes much to the energy of its
able honorary secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton. At present it has nine life mem¬
bers, 29 honorary members, and 29 ordinary members. Mr. Blyton, who has had
much experience in Spiritualism says: “ Propagandism is, in my opinion, advi¬
sable so far as encouraging home investigation, for which purpose every information
is afforded by this Association, and at the present time an attempt is being made
to arouse attention to the subject by distributing printed information broadcast in
this district.” The rooms of the Association are at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
The Marylebone Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism holds its meetings at
25, Great Quebec-street. It was founded several years since, but was reorganised
last year. With rather more than a hundred members, it is carrying on good
practical work. It holds free seances for members on Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Thursdays; free lectures and discussion meetings on Tuesdays and Fridays, and
seances, for admission to which a slight charge is made, on Saturdays and Sundays.
Thus it will be seen that it works well and deserves our best wishes.
The Brixton Psychological Society was formed in 1871, and at present has 36
members. Mr. H. E. Francis, the honorary secretary, -informs me that seances
are held with known mediums, and some excellent manifestations have been
obtained. Monthly discussion meetings are held, and are fairly attended.
Attempts hitherto to form developing circles among members have not been very
successful. Private seances are held by some of the members at their own homes,
in one case with remarkable results.
, For many years Mr. Cogman, an earnest worker, who has lately passed from us,
did much for the cause of Spiritualism in the East End of London. His work is
being ably continued by Mr. E. W. Wallis, at the East End Spiritual Institution,
15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End. Services are held every Sunday evening, with
free admission, and are well attended. Developing circles are held on Monday
evenings, and open circles on Wednesday evenings, for admission to which a
quarterly subscription is payable.
Attempts to carry on work of a similar kind, or to form local societies, have at
various times been made in other parts of London, but for some reason they have
never reached a permanent form.
It would probably be difficult to estimate the extent to which Spiritualism is
indebted to Mr. J. Burns and the agencies of the Spiritual Institution, South¬
ampton-row. Mr. Burns’s name will ever be connected with the cause of
Spiritualism in this country, and I cannot but admire the energy and zeal with
which he has devoted his life to his work. He has done much, among other
means, by the publication of cheap literature, and I need only further refer, in this
summary, to the Sunday services held at Doughty Hall under his management.
With a “ free hall” and a “ free platform” these meetings have been a boon to
a number of London Spiritualists.
We have in London excellent professional mediums, through whose mediumship
occur wonderful physical phenomena. I may specially mention Mr. Willie
Eglinton and Mr. C. E. Williams; we have, also, good mediums of other kinds.
There is one whom we may claim for London who stands unique in this country,
and of whom we are justly proud, and esteem as much for his personal qualities as
for his value as a “ servant of the spirits ”—Mr. J. J. Morse. I should not leave
this brief notice of London mediums without referring also to the work of healing
represented by Dr. Mack and Mr. Ashman.
There are four distinct degrees of local organisation adopted by our country
friends. Of these the most general in its operations is the District Committee;
then we have societies; next “circles” held regularly at stated intervals; and
lastly, the “Institutional” plan. The first-mentioned of these methods was
originated by the formation of the Lancashire District Spiritualist Committee.
For the following particulars of this committee I am indebted to Mr. John Hartley,
of Hyde. It consists of an executive of six members, two secretaries, a treasurer,
and a general body of district representatives to the number of about forty, who
all reMgn office quarterly. At some of the quarterly conferences as many as
eighty representatives have been elected; there are no “ rules ” or “ members.”
Its business is carried on by propositions approved at the quarterly conferences,
and by the minutes passed at the various meetings of the executive. The con¬
ferences are held on the first Sundays in February, May, August, and November
respectively, with intermediate meetings if necessary; they are attended by repre¬
sentatives from north-east, east, and mid Lancashire, north Cheshire, and north
Derbyshire. At each conference representatives from the various towns and
villages are elected for the next ensuing quarter, and from these are chosen the
president, secretaries, treasurer, and executive, who take in hand the management
of the movement and follow up the work of their predecessors. The executive
meet once a month, or oftener if necessary, and arrange for meetings to be held in
the several towns and villages in the before-named districts, and appoint repre¬
sentatives to act in those places to arrange the preliminaries of the meetings to be
held; the executive also provide the speakers. One of the representatives thus
appointed (of whom there are usually four or five for each place) is the corre¬
sponding secretary, who attends every meeting; he forwards a statement of the
receipts and expenditure at such meetings to the general secretary, and the sur¬
plus of the proceeds (if any) to the treasurer. Should there be a loss, which is
usually the case, the corresponding secretary advances the money at the time, and
gets repaid by the treasurer. The meetings are always best attended in places
where no meetings on Spiritualism have been held before, and a second, third, or
fourth meeting rids them of the lower elements, the residue being people of intelli¬
gence. Recent meetings have been very successful, and a permanent footing has
been gained in many places, amongst which Mr. Hartley mentions Stockport,
New Mills, Glossop, and Middleton. As a rule the meetings do not pay expenses,
but leave a loss of from 20s. to 30s., except when a local speaker takes the plat¬
form free of charge. Great difficulty is met with through want of funds; there
are sufficient speakers for the present work, but if more funds were at the dis¬
posal of the committee, a great deal more work would be accomplished. The loss
arising from the meetings has to be made up by the local Spiritualists; as a reserve
from which such loss may be partly met, a “ guarantee fund ” has been formed,
and which is for about £30 per annum for five years. The committee has a plan
for the distribution and sale of Spiritual literature; at all meetings held under its
auspices there are books for salS and other literature for free distribution. The
works of Mr. A. R. Wallace and Mr. W. Crookes are the principal ones sold.
Taking the various towns in which Spiritualism is most known, in the best
order I can as to locality, I will start from Liverpool, where, for many years, the
movement has had a firm hold. This town has an efficient organisation in the
Liverpool Psychological Society, which has at present about fiffy members, a
number which appears to be less than the past average. Some members have
ec fitly withdrawn on account of an alteration in the rules, by which member’s
subscription has been raised from 4s. to 10s. per annum. The energy of the
society appears at present to be concentrated on its Sunday lectures at Meyer¬
beer Hall. There are no professional mediums at Liverpool, but eight or ten
private ones, some of whom are very good ; many private seances are held. A
correspondent says there are “ thousands ” of Spiritualists in the town, but they
are divided and do not work well together. The conference held in 1873, at which
the resolution was passed for the formation of a National Association, was con¬
vened by the Liverpool Psychological Society, and the two Associations have
always been in alliance.
In Manchester, also, there have been many earnest workers for years past. One
of these, Mr. R. Fitton, informs me that some seven or eight years ago himself
and a few others resolved to bring Spiritualism more to the front in Manchester,
by holding meetings for the reading of essays, and for lectures and discussions, to
which the public were invited; the result was the formation of a committee, and
the work was extended to holding sea/nces and public meetings for trance-speaking
on Sundays ; still later (in 1873) these friends were consolidated into the Man¬
chester Association of Spiritualists, when a prospectus and rules were drawn up.
This society has about forty members, who pay a quarterly subscription of one
shilling; they are entitled to the use of the library of the Association, which con¬
tains about 100 volumes of the best of the Spiritual literature. The public meet¬
ings of the Association are held at the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, on
Sunday afternoons. Many circles are held in private families, and there is a largo
number of Spiritualists in the city. Mr. Fitton gives no estimate of their number,
but another correspondent puts them down as 300 or 400. Four public trance-
speakers reside in or near Manchester—Mr. Jackson, Mr. Johnson, Miss Barlow,
and Miss Hall. These, like all provincial mediums, with one or two exceptions,
can hardly be called “ professional mediums,” as, although they are engaged for
public speaking by the various local societies, they only take a small fee for their
services, or receive payment of travelling expenses.
The following particulars of the early days of Spiritualism in Hyde, near Man¬
chester, are from Mr. Hartley:—“ Some seven years ago Hyde first commenced its
public investigation into Spiritualism ; at that time its upholders had none of the
advantages of to-day—no books, publications, or weekly organs of the movement
to enable them to persevere in their inquiries; it appeared to be intuitive on the
part of the sitters, for none knew the peculiarities of the physical manifestations,
yet the results were marked with a degree of success which I believe the Research
Committee of the National Association has not yet attained. It would be impos¬
sible, in a short letter, to give anything like a detailed description of the progress
of spiritual manifestations in those early days. The newspapers were fully occu¬
pied for months discussing the subject pro and con, and although nothing de¬
finite was arrived at, it gradually got to be a settled opinion that there £ was
something in this Spiritualism.’ Its adherents were subjected at the time to
various insults from the clergy, as well as from the populace, threatened on
one hand,hooted and anathematised on the other; but they were so fully con¬
vinced of the reality of the strange manifestations, that the threatening of a few
dominant clergy, and the shouts of an ignorant mob, did not make them forsake the
truth and the evidence of their senses. The manifestations were of every phase
that I, so far, have seen, read, or heard of; we had clairvoyance, elongation of
the body, materialisations, and other forms of mediumship, which appear strange
to the ordinary mind. With one medium, when in the trance condition the hair on
his head was like a stiff brush, if it was pressed down it sprang back to its wire¬
like tension; at the same time his whole body was similar to an inanimate object
charged with electric fluid. The gift of healing was much developed amongst the
sitters. The splendid poems and orations given through one medium were re¬
markable for their fluency and perfect grammatical construction, although the
medium, in his normal state, was an ordinary workman, but with a well-balanced
head.” At the present day there are said to be about a dozen prominent
Spiritualists in Hyde, and perhaps a hundred more who do not publicly declare
themselves as such. Mr. Hartley further adds:—“ I think it very necessary that
something should be known of the movement in the provinces. I should indeed
be glad if all provincial Spiritualists would go handln hand with the British
National Association of Spiritualists.”
In Leigh Spiritualism is prominently brought before the public by the Leigh
Spiritualist Association, which numbers twenty members. It has no rules, mem¬
bers are admitted at the ordinary meetings, and executive officers are elected
quarterly. Many public meetings, discussions, and lectures have been held dur¬
ing the past year; the chief opposition met with comes from the local dissenting de¬
nominations. Mr. F, Furner says: “ It is difficult to advise as to the best method of
propagandism. Considerable sums of money have been spent in our effort here to
spread a knowledge of the subject; lectures (normal and trance), discussions, seana s
with professional mediums, the distribution of literature, all have been tried, only
to meet with the most bitter opposition and ridicule from the religious bodies.”
Mr. Furner says there are fifty Spiritualists in Leigh and an area of three miles
round.
Oldham is one of the strongholds of Spiritualism. Mr. T. Kershaw and Mr.
Samuel H. Quarmby have both publicly stated that there are two thousand per¬
sons in the town who believe in spirit communion. The latter gentleman, who is
secretary to the Oldham Society of Spiritualists has repeated that estimate to me,
and furnished me with the following particulars of the society. It has no system
of membership and no rules. The committee for the time being institute a course
of action which is liable to be altered or confirmed by the next. The fact of
attending the meetings and contributing in any way to the expenses, constituti s
membership. A committee with chairman, treasurer, and secretary are elected,
usually half-yearly. Trance and normal speakers are engaged weekly, physical
mediums occasionally, and literature is distributed. The meetings are usually
attended by about a hundred persons, but this number is increased to three or four
hundred when the meetings are of a special kind. Mr. Quarmby speaks strongly
in favour of propagandism, if carried on judiciously. He says much injury has
been done by foolish undeveloped mediums. A wise intermixture of normal
speakers with the best trance mediums, and the distribution of literature, has worked
well in Oldham.
From Ashton-under-Lyne 1 have a very different report. The society which
existed here has been broken up. On the 19th November last a mob attacked the
Spiritualist meeting room; the stairs and landing were carried by assault, but foiled
in their attempt to force the room, the disturbers remained an hour singing hymns,
when the police arrived. On the previous Sunday, while the usual meeting was
being held, the door was forced in, although a police officer was in attendance to
prevent a disturbance. The professing Spiritualists had not the courage to stand
opposition of this kind, and the meetings ceased.
In Bolton the state of affairs is far more encouraging. The Bolton Spiritualist
Association has thirty members, and a suitable room in which meetings are held
twice on Sundays. The afternoons are devoted to seances, and the evenings to
singing, prayer, and addresses. The speakers are planned in advance each
quarter by the secretary. Mr. David Cordingley, who has furnished me with these
particulars, writes as follows : “ We have been steadily increasing ever since we
formed ourselves into an association. We have no rules of any description;
those are members who subscribe monthly. We appoint quarterly a committee,
treasurer, and secretary, who manage all our business, and see to the respecta¬
bility of the members. All are on an equality; there is no envy, no suspicion,
and we have so succeeded in making our Spiritualism a thing of joy that it is
rarely a member is absent from our Sunday gatherings. We have no professional
mediums, but we have two good trance speakers, through whom we receive
Spiritualism of a high order, and above a saleable value. Seances are held two
or three times a week. During the early days of our Association we engaged
mediums, but found the plan expensive and unprofitable; we changed our system
of dependence on others to one of reliance on ourselves, and have found it much
80
THE SPIHITUALIST.
®eb. 16,1877,
better in every way. We get all the Spiritualist literature we can afford to buy.
In summer we make picnics to favourite spots in the neighbourhood, and have
tea parties and entertainments in the winter. We aim at elevating ourselves and
each other, and delight to meet and conduce to each other’s happiness as much as
possible.” Prom the foregoing I should judge the Bolton friends to be a happy
community, and think they set a good example.
In Kochdale the Spiritualists have no public place of meeting. One was taken
for three months, but was badly supported by those who should have assisted.
A friend writes: “ There are a good many private circles—I should say twenty
—in our town and neighbourhood, and I believe they are doing a good work. I
have no idea of the number of Spiritualists here; there are not a few who believe
but do not make it publicly known.” Rochdale and the other Lancashire towns
I have named work in union with the district committee.
There are several other places in Lancashire in which Spiritualism is making
much progress, but I have particulars only from one of them—Barrow-in-Furness.
Hero four circles are regularly held, and some good mediums are in process of
development. Mr. J. Walmsley writes as follows: “The mode we have adopted
has been to introduce'Spiritualism personally whenever we have opportunity,
and to advise all inquirers to sit at home and investigate for themselves. We
have had Mr. Morse here twice; Mrs. Scattergood and Miss Longbottom each
twice, and three lectures from Dr. Sexton. Three thousand persons listened
afternoon and evening to the ladies, so the subject is well known here. We have
■ about twenty-five believers, but many more are favourable to it, and would join
us did we form a society. There are also Spiritualists at Dalton, at Ulverston,
and at Millom in Cumberland.”
In Yorkshire there are, perhaps, more Spiritualists in Halifax than in any other
town. The Halifax Psychological Society has fifty members. It has no rules,
but persons wishing to join, subscribe their names in the members’ book, and pay
a subscription of not less than one shilling per quarter. Public services are held
on Sundays, for which purpose a room is fitted up with platform, seats, and organ,
and licensed in the same way as the chapels of dissenting religious denomina¬
tions. There is great opposition just now by the various religious bodies in the
shape of mock seances, &c. It is also said that a recent prosecution has done
much harm to the cause of Spiritualism in Halifax. Miss Longbottom and Mr.
Blackburn are public mediums, and there are five or six other mediums good for
private circles, of which there are several in the town. Mr. Longbottom, the
secretary of the society, thinks there are 150 Spiritualists in the borough. He
speaks in favour of the distribution of “ Rules to form Spirit Circles,” and of en¬
couraging home investigation. In addition to the Psychological Society there is
also in Halifax a society of Christian Spiritualists.
At Sowerby Bridge, two miles from Halifax, there is the Sowerby Bridge
Spiritualists Lyceum, with about forty members. The secretary, Mr. E. Broad-
bent, writes: “ We chiefly carry out Andrew Jackson Davis’s instructions as re¬
gards the Lyceum and the election of officers and their duties. We hold school
morning and afternoon on Sundays, and services in the evenings. I should think
there are 100 Spiritualists in this district, say within an area of two miles.”
At Keighley, the local society is called the Spiritual Brotherhood Lyceum, and
has from seventy to eighty members. The rules of this society proyide for a
committee of nine, of whom one-third retire each quarter, but may be re-elected.
Applications from persons wishing to become members are considered by the com¬
mittee, and their decision as to election is laid before the next following quarterly
general meeting. There is no fixed amount of subscription—members contribute
according to their inclination or ability, and sufficient funds are generally forth¬
coming. Meetings are held regularly on Sundays, morning and evening; the
Hall seats 150 persons, and the meetings are well attended, people coming regu¬
larly a distance of four or five miles. Occasionally the Meohanics’ Hall is
engaged for special lectures; it holds 1,300 or 1,400 people, and is usually
filled. As with respect to several other places, I have not been able to get a
close estimate of the number of local Spiritualists; Mr. Tillotson, the secretary to
the Lyceum, says, in Keighley “ there are a few hundreds.”
In Leeds Spiritualism does not seem to occupy so good a position as it formerly
did. There is no society, and although there are several Spiritualists in the
town they are not, according to my information, united or known to each other.
There are a few regular circles held.
The town of Huddersfield will be familiar to you on account of the recent prose¬
cution there of Dr. Monck. A correspondent writing on the 14th December, says,
“ We have no organisation here; some years ago there were monthly meetings
held, and there was also a library, but both have been discontinued. I am not
aware that any meetings are now held.”
At Ossett, near Wakefield, there is a Spiritual Institute, managed by a com¬
mittee, and which has existed four years. Mr. Charles Hallgath says there are
about fifty known Spiritualists in Ossett and Gawthorpe. “ A few Working men
who are keeping Spiritualism before the public. We lenov) its truth, and we want
others to knowitalso.”
From Sheffield there comes an encouraging report. It is said that twelve months
ago there were only two or three Spiritualists in the town; now there is a society
with thirty members, who pay a small quarterly subscription. Seances are held at
the homes of members, who meet quarterly to report progress.
In Hull there is a Spiritual Institution under the proprietorship of Mr. Bland.
It does not, however, seem to flourish, although Mr. Bland deserves to meet with
better success. There is a small library at the institution for members, and seances
are held weekly. There appear to be but few Spiritualists in the town, and these
have no unity of action.
At Grimsby, on the other side of the Humber, three or four circles meet regu¬
larly, but the few local Spiritualists are divided by petty jealousies.
There are about twenty believers in Spiritualism in Saltburn-by-the-Sea, and
about fifty who lean towards it.- There is a strong feeling against the movement
on the part of the orthodox party. Mr. J. R. Summers says, “ I was the person
who introduced Spiritualism into Saltburn, and although it was five years ago, I
am to this day looked on as the devil of the place.”
There are a number of Spiritualists in Darlington, where there is a Spiritual
Institute, but I have been unable to obtain any particulars.
In Bishop Auckland the Spiritualists do not seem to get on well with their
public work. The local society, the Bishop Auckland District Association of
Spiritualists, is about to be dissolved on account of members falling off. Lec¬
tures and seances have been held for a long time past, but it has been difficult to
get sufficient interest taken in them to guarantee a continuance of them. Mr.
Gibson, the secretary of the society, says there are 200 or 300 Spiritualists within
the town and a radius of sixmiles round. WritingfromNewShildon,Mr. JohnMens-
forth states that there are “about a thousand ” Spiritualists in the locality, includ¬
ing Old and New Shildon, West Auckland, Bishop Auckland, &c. Meetings are
held on Sundays in the Co-operative Hall, Old Shildon, for which a few friends
pay a rental of about £16 a year. Week-night meetings are also held. The local
workers meet with much persecution and opposition.
Chester-le-street is a colliery district, and for promoting Spiritualism there is
the Chester-le-street District Committee, formed in June last. About twenty
circles are regularly held in the neighbouring villages, and there are said to be 200
local Spiritualists. The majority of these appear to be hard-working men and
very earnest Spiritualists.
In Sunderland there was once a society of Spiritualists, but through some dis¬
cord it ceased. Mr. John Rutherford informs me that two private circles meet
every week,and there are five private mediums, “three of whom may be classed
as good for demonstrating the truth of Spiritualism to others.” In his opinion
propagandism is highly advisable. After a lecture-in the town by Mr. Morse great
interest was manifested, and a run made on the books on Spiritualism in the free
library. Mr. Rutherford states that there are about seventy Spiritualists in the town.
i J j He also gives a long list of books on Spiritualism which are in the Corporation
i) j Free Library, and the library of the Working Men’s Co-operative Stores.
m In South Shields there is no society of Spiritualists, but there is a local
:)i “ Circle,” with a president, secretary, and treasurer. It is limited to 20 members,
| ? i which number might be doubled at any time if desired. Applicants for member-
; (i ship have to attend for a probationary period of one month, at the end of which
i (i time they are permanently admitted, if a majority of members vote in their favour,
j \ i Three meetings are held weekly, one of which is devoted to obtaining materialisa-
;) I tions, with good results. The medium is Mr. W. H. Lambelle. There are other
!) j smaller circles in South Shields, and the local Spiritualists are said to number 50,
j) j there being also an equal number in North Shields. Investigation is carried on
i/I - with a great deal of secrecy.
i? I I now come to Newcastle-on-Tyne, which, as regards Spiritualism, is one of
i (I the most important places in the kingdom. I am indebted to Mr. H. A. Kersey
i (i for the following particulars of the movement here. The local organisation is
i \ I called the “ Newcastle-on-Tyne Society for promoting Inquiry into Modern
n | Spiritualism,” which may be justly said to be “ a somewhat cumbrous title.” The
j) j Spiritualists proper would like to alter it, but this is opposed by members who are
i) i investigators only, so the matter is never pressed to a division. At a recent
i) I meeting of the Dalston Association, Mr. G. R. Tapp referred to the fact of there
i /1 being always new friends at the meetings ; the same thing came under my notice
| (| at the late Clerkenwell Society—each succeeding quarter there would be many new
| (I members, and yet the yearly average was always about the same. Mr. Kersey
hi speaks of a similar fact occurring at Newcastle with the society there. For the
i) I year ending 30th September last, the first quarter began with 59 members and
i / i ended with 51; the second quarter began 71 and ended with 53 ; the third with 78
i) i and ended with 52; and the last quarter began with 85 and ended with 47.
i) i Members investigate for a time, and then leave for a variety of causes; some get
| (I satisfied, others continue to investigate privately; but, says my correspondent, one
: (i thing is agreeably certain, that Spiritualism is fast spreading in Newcastle outside
j (‘ the society. There are a great many who, though they do not subscribe to the
j {I society, frequently attend its lectures, &c. At the last annual meeting the com-
!) i mittee were desired to devise some means to keep these outside friends connected
i) | with the society, and it is thought probable that there will be two classes of
|)| membership—one with a mere nominal subscription, while the contribution for
i / i ordinary membership would remain as at present, 5s. per quarter, which provides
1 (I for two seances per week. At present the society has no formulated rules, but is
| (| guided by the various minutes passed from time to time. The committee and
| (j officers are elected annually, and they appoint sub-committees for special duties,
j \ i The society provides seances, encourages developing circles, holds lectures every
j) j Sunday, and frequently on week nights, with trance and normal speakers, dis-
I) i tributes literature, promotes social gatherings, and adopts other means by which
i) I people may be induced to investigate Spiritualism. Mr. Kersey says the success
i) I of the society has been great; whilst it struggled on for years in obscurity it laid
I (i a foundation on which to build in the future, and it is the parent of all the
! (i circles about the locality for miles round. There are four public mediums in
I \ \ Newcastle—Miss C. Wood, Miss A. Fairlamb,and Mrs. Petty, and her son Willie,
i 11 There are also some excellent private mediums, and a number of private circles
’ i) i are held. Mr. Kersey further writes: “ Whilst thinking that public lectures are
i) | not without their value, I am decidedly of opinion that private advocacy and de-
I) j monstration go far further to convince sceptics than public meetings or seances.
I (j Private propagandism is more sure, though perhaps not so showy as the public;
| (| your work is apparently more in detail, but the result is more certain. I do not
i [ \ believe in sudden conversions—a sort of mental dram-drinking a la Moody and
ij| Sankey—or that the effect of such is lasting. I am sorry I cannot answer your
II i inquiry as to the number of Spiritualists in Newcastle, except to say those not
|) j connected with the society far outnumber those who are ; the only guide I can
i) i give you, and that not a reliable one, is that our lecture hall has on some occasions
|) i been so full that we have had to lock the doors and refuse further admittance.
: /1 The hall seats 200 comfortably; count the number when packed, and you have
i ( i some idea of the state of affairs. I may state that the society’s establishment
K i i consists of our lecture hall, with rooms for seances, committee meetings, &c.
i (i From another standpoint, the success of the society may be judged by the finan-
i i | cial statement, which, for our last year, showed that £216 had been expended in
;) ; furthering the cause of Spiritualism.”
;) j Newcastle is also the centre of the North of England Conference Committee,
i) | formed on the same basis as the Lancashire committee, to promote co-operative
; j i effort and union amongst the numerous circles springing up in the other towns
j( | and the country round about. The Newcastle people heartily backed up this
i j i movement, and the surrounding districts elected representatives on the committee,
jj i but have since declined to work with it—consequently but little has been
I] i accomplished.
|) | At Choppington, near Morpeth, a society has been recently formed. It has
j) i twenty-three members. Public mediums have been engaged and literature
|! I distributed. There are said to be seventy or eighty Spiritualists within a four
i ( ; miles radius.
| \ ■ From here, for convenience, I go into Scotland. Spiritualism does not appeal*
ij; to thrive on Scotch soil. There was at one time a Psychological Society in Ediu-
i) i burgh, but it does not seem to exist now. The only place from which I have a
i i report is Glasgow, from whence Mr. J. Brown writes as follows i—“I have not
i) | been practically engaged in the study and-pursuit of Spiritualism for the last two
|) i years, and am incapable of estimating at all correctly its present status in Glasgow,
i / i Judging from the organisation which exists here I cannot say that it is in a flour-
i ( i ishing condition. I know, however, from past experience that very considerable
i \ i advance has been made in educating the public mind towards a more respectful
i) ; recognition of the phenomena and claims of Spiritualism. It is now twelve years
j j i since my attention was drawn to the subject in this city, and it was an exceedingly
i) i difficult matter to find anyone who in any way sympathised with the teachings or
I was acquainted with the manifestations. Now in a general sense it is different,
I and there are hundreds who, while they may not have allied themselves with any
association, are yet earnest and quiet students, who have either openly declared
their faith or are decidedly inclined towaMs a belief in Spiritualism. The Asso¬
ciation here, however, has never been a permanent success; its prosperity has
ever been on the ebb and flow, the rise and decline. At present it is not in the
:) i ascendant, which, I think, is due to lack of good management and the attempt
i) j made some time ago to constitute a religious service, to which the public, without
I) i discrimination, were invited. There are few known good mediums. Mr. Duguid
j /! is the one most sought after, and has during the past ten years done more to make
| (i the manifestations popular amongst all classes of the community than anyone I
1 j i know. I am not disposed to think much of propagandism as beneficial. From my
| \ \ experience I should say that the circulation of the better class of the literature of x
j j i the movement is the most efficient mode of accomplishing an ultimate change in the
i) [ public feeling towards the movement. The formation of family circles I consider
Ii) | also a very important method of effecting a change in the public mind, but I do
not think it well to expend much energy in the public debate and proclamation of
Spiritualism.” Mr. James Simpson, the secretary of the Glasgow Association of
Spiritualists, informs me that there are some seventy names on the list of the
i society’s members, but only thirty or forty of these are paying members. He
regrets that the older Spiritualists do not identify themselves more with the
| Association, and states that a number of very earnest men—of the working classes
chiefly—form the present committee, and also that a great many strangers have
come to the meetings during the past winter, anxious for information, as many as
thirty or forty inquirers coming at one time,
i Coming south again, I find a large number of Spiritualists in Nottingham.
These are divided into two bodies, who, though separated and distinct, are friendly
I to each other. The Nottingham Spiritualists Society represents those who are called
Feb. 16, 1877,
THE SPIEITUALIST.
81
the || progressive party,” and there are also the Christian Spiritualists. The first
named have about twenty-five members. The society has no definite rules, but
an earnest desire to investigate, and the payment of not less than one shilling per
quarter, constitutes membership. Officers are elected half-yearly at special meet¬
ings. Meetings for trance addresses are held on Sundays. Mrs. Hitchcock is the
principal local public medium; this lady has been an earnest worker for over ten
years. There are at least half-a-dozen private mediums, some of whom have
given excellent tests in the trance at private seances. Mr. J. Ashworth, who for
many years has been one of the most active local workers, says with reference to
propagandism,1 “ If we are in possession of a great truth it seems to be our duty to
put others in possession of it. I think, at the present time, by lectures, and by the
wholesale distribution of such information as will enable anxious inquirers to inves¬
tigate at their own homes.” He estimates the Spiritualists in Nottingham and
suburbs at about 200. Of the Christian Spiritualists there are about thirty enrolled
members. Mr. J. W. Billson, in a kind and interesting letter, writes:—“ We have
no printed or written rules, but are guided by principles, and in case of difficulty,
by instructions through our mediums. Membership consists of agreement with
our teachings and a desire to co-operate in their furtherance. We have but few
officers, who are elected as circumstances require. Our name somewhat explains
our work, and we have meetings at our room, morning and evening, every Sunday
for worship and instruction, and also on Wednesdays; on Tuesday evenings we
meet for healing the sick. During the summer months, for three years past, we
have held our Sunday morning meetings in the forest about a mile from Notting¬
ham, and have had large and attentive audiences.” Mr. Billson also says there are
numerous private seances, especially among the well-to-do classes. He thinks
there are v several hundred Spiritualists ” in the district. The sub-editor of one
of the local papers is an ardent Spiritualist, and tabes every occasion to defend the
cause.
In Leicester, there are said to be 500 Spiritualists. Whether this is an exaggerated
estimate or not I cannot say, but we seldom hear of anything worthy of special
notice taking place in the town. The Leicester Society for Promoting Investiga¬
tion into Spiritualism, has existed two years, and there are three trance mediums
used for public speaking.
A Northampton friend, after consulting with other local workers, estimates that
there are at least 500 Spiritualists in that town, but they have i no society or
organisation. There are four or five circles held regularly, each attended by from
thirty to fifty persons, who in some cases pay a trifling subscription to defray any
expenses incurred. It is also said that there are many private seances held in the
families of the neighbouring gentry and well-to-do classes.
I have long had the idea that something radicallywrong exists among the
Spiritualists of Birmingham, of whom there are said to be about 400. There is
no local organisation, but a working committee carries on Sunday lectures during
the winter, and open air meetings in the summer. Mr. B. Harper writes: “The
work is exceedingly difficult to carry on at all,' and progress is sufficiently slow to
damp the ardour of the most enthusiastic worker. The effect of the lecturing is
almost nil, both as regards the Spiritualists and the public, and it is proposed to
abandon it except in the open air during the summer. The meetings of last
summer did each as much good as ten lectures within halls. About only from
fourteen to forty of the Spiritualists here attend the ordinary lectures. I believe
in propagandism, and that the best form is seances, and the second best printed
matter. I am clearly of opinion that we have ten times too much lecturing of the
kind supplied, most of it being rubbish.” Apart from the work of the above
committee there are meetings held at the United Christian Spiritualists’ meeting
room, the secretary being Mr. W. Perks, who has been an earnest and hard¬
working Spiritualist for many years.
1 rom Bristol Mr. George Tommy writes as follows: “ I regret to say that my
report respecting Spiritualism in this city and neighbourhood will be extremely
meagre and unsatisfactory, for the simple reason that for the present there
appears to be a total suspension of any association in connection with the move¬
ment. We established a society here about twelve years ago, the members of
which numbered between twenty and thirty, but our great want at that time
appeared to be a good medium, and failing in this the interest gradually diminished,
and the attendance fell off, the result being the breaking up of the society after
an existence of about eighteen months. About four years ago we reorganised
our society somewhat on the same basis as before. We got on rather more satis¬
factorily for a time, and obtained some good manifestations, but some of the
members were suspicious respecting the phenomena; this produced some un¬
pleasant feeling, resulting in division, and ultimately in the disruption of the
society about two years ago, since which time there has been no association. I
have no data on which to base an estimate of the number of private seances held,
but judging from information I get occasionally in different and sometimes unex¬
pected quarters, I believe private seances are held in a great many families in
Clifton and other localities where they do not say much about it in public. With
regard to propagandism, so far as our locality is concerned, I think the time is
hardly yet ripe for lectures, or any public manifestations, on account of the bitter
hostility which exists, but I believe this is a phase which will soon pass away,
leaving the ground free for action. My own plan at present, when I meet with
inquirers, is to recommend them to sit at home with a few friends in order to
test it for themselves, and I have found good results from this in some cases.”
Going into Wales I find a very unsatisfactory state of affairs in Cardiff. There
are a number of Spiritualists in the town who do not avow themselves, and the
society formed last year has met with very poor success owing to internal dis¬
sensions. It is about to be reconstituted, and I trust to some purpose, as from no
other place have I heard of such want of unity as exists at Cardiff. Mr. Emery,
who has worked with energy and tact for the society, says that perhaps 80 or 100
Spiritualists might be got to attend a public meeting, but ho thinks there are three
times as many in the town who privately accept the facts. Mr. G. Sadler has
been a devoted worker in the cause. About a year ago he established a free
library, and has since then lent works on Spiritualism to 180 different persons,
and the demand for books is increasing. He has also given away a large amount
of literature. His son, Mr. E. G. Sadler, is known as “the Welsh physical
medium.”
Mr. J. T. Docton, of Merthyr Tydvil, writes:—“ We have no society here.
The Spiritualist community consists of private seances meeting in private houses,
to which inquirers are admitted if they can get the influence of some of the
members. There are eight circles known to me personally; each selects an officer
or ‘ conductor,’ and meets regularly. We have half-a-dozen good private
mediums. I should judge the number of Spiritualists in the town to be at least
one hundred.”
In Llanelly there are a number of Spiritualists, but they have no organisation,
a society which once existed having broken up for want of a place in which to
hold meetings. Mr. J. F. Young has done much for Spiritualism in the neigh¬
bourhood, and appears to be an enthusiastic worker.
In the south and west of England Spiritualists are fewer. We hear occasionally
of meetings in Brighton, Portsmouth^ Southampton, and other places. In Ply¬
mouth, Spiritualism has made some progress. Mr. Edward Snell, of Culver-park,
Saltash, writes: “ I am not aware of any society of Spiritualists in the neighbour¬
hood. I think the sittings are confined to some half dozen private circles in
Plymouth and Devonport, where others, like myself, have discovered the truth of
Spiritualism by manifestations occurring in their own families. The parsons
have directed public attention to the matter by denouncing it as devilish, and the
prosecutions of Drs. Slade and Monck excite interest among people who otherwise
would never have heard of Spiritualism. Becently Mr. Burns has been lecturing
and Di’. Mack healing here.” In a later letter Mr. Snell says, “The cause has
outlived ridicule here, and I am no longer considered a fit candidate for Bodmin
Lunatic Asylum. A well-known solicitor who lives here, and who formerly oon-
\ I sidered me a mild kind of monomaniac, has discovered a powerful medium in the
) | person of his only daughter, and now sits gravely down at dark seances in his own
) j house.”
M In West Cornwall there are two or three Spiritualists, and I have heard of
(j visitors holding seances at the Land’s End; here I may appropriately end my
(| discursive ramble. I think I cannot do so better than by expressing a wish that
(i the motto of this western county may be adopted by Spiritualists in their efforts
(| to make known the truth; it is, “ One and All.”
j! THE DISCUSSION—SPIRITUALISM IN THE ISLE OP WIGHT—PROVINCIAL ORGANI-
j| SATIONS—SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW, LANCASHIRE, BIRMINGHAM AND THE
11 CHANNEL ISLANDS—THE INFLUENCES GOVERNING THE FORMATION AND DIS-
(| RUPTION OF SPIRITUAL ORGANISATIONS—SPIRITUALISM AND THE CLERGY
(| AND NONCONFORMISTS—THE NON-RECEPTION OF SPIRITUALISM BY THE CELTS
—SPIRITUALISM, DISSENTERS, SHAKERS AND RANTERS—THE RECORDING OF
)! SPHUTUALISTIC STATISTICS.
) | A vote of thanks to Mr. Pearce, proposed by Mr. Rogers, and seconded by
) | Mr. Tapp, having been passed for the paper,
(| ' Mr. Thomas Shorter said : I have had to do in past years with the collect*
11 ing of Spiritualistic statistics, and can bear witness to the large amount of
I labour contained in the paper which Mr. Pearce has read before us this
j evening; I think it would be valuable if all the information contained in his
(| paper were to be tabulated; it would be well to record the number of members
j j contained in every organisation. I am surprised that he has not furnished us
)j with information from Darlington, for there the first convention of Spirit-
(j ualists was held. Again with regard to Nottingham, there was once a
yj Lyceum there for children. Is it alive now? What is the state of Spirit-
j j ualism in the Isle of Wight and in the Channel Islands ? I was in the Isle
jj of Wight last summer, and discovered that there were some good private
jj circles there, and that Mr. Broderick rs a very active local worker’. There
(! are discussions occasionally in the local papers, but no organised society, I
j believe.
j i Mr. J. J. Morse : I hope that the paper will be reprinted, because at present
j j the people in one locality do not know what is going on in another.' I am
(| continually traversing the ground which Mr. Pearce has gone over, and I do
)! not think he has overstated the facts in any respect. He made remarks about
j | lack of unity, but that want; of adhesion has its uses; there is internal lack
(j of unity sometimes in the managing bodies themselves; there is also lack of
(j union with each other in many instances of the various societies. When
jj attempts are made to bring about union, local prejudices, ideas and interests
j j come into conflict. Four of the chief societies in the country have entered
( into alliance with the National Association of Spiritualists, and I wish all of
(J them had done so, for by union and by becoming acquainted with each other
j j the welfare of the whole cause is promoted. I think that there is a species of
j j natural selection at work in the provinces, whereby the movement, after all, is
(j worked in the best way. The “ institutional” plan spoken of I do not understand,
j j for how it differs from a local society my brains are unable to grasp; it is
jj simply a rose by another name. The Lancashire District Union of Spirit-
/ j ualists works well. Cannot we enter into some correspondence with this
(I committee, to know whether assistance from us would be of use to it ? I do
(j not agree with Mr. Brown in what he says about Glasgow ; he may know more
j I of details than I do, but I do not think Spiritualism is at a low ebb there ; for
jj instance, a hundred and thirty people Can be seated in the lecture hall
(! belonging to the Glasgow society, which also possesses rooms’which are let
(j off. They have, besides, regular Sunday services. Scotchmen know how
j to behave themselves, and I do not think that what we consider to be good
j i for ourselves is bad for the public, if we let them in to hear what is said.
(j The society is not well sustained, but it has done very useful work. Mr.
(! James Bowman has done a great deal for Spiritualism in Glasgow—(ap-
j plause)—and has sacrificed time, money, and labour. He has also supported
ji Mr. Duguid; in short, Mr. Bowman’s labours are beyond praise. (Applause.)
(j Mi’. Duguid’s mediumship is of a very valuable character; there is nothing
jl to equal it in-Scotland, and it has done much to convince a very hard-headed
j class of the community of the reality of spiritual intervention in mundane
j j affairs. I am treating with the Glasgow society to lecture there next Sunday
ji in the Trades Hall, which will hold-eight hundred people, and I do not think
> i that a society which has had energy enough to do all this can be considered
> j to be in low water. I am thoroughly acquainted with the state of Spiritualism
[j in Newcastle. If Mr. Kersey nad not been so modest, he might have told Mr.
(j Pearce that his disinterested labours have done very much indeed there to
I i promote the welfare of the society. The old members of the society laboured
i j continually for the development of the two celebrated mediums, Misses Wood
1 j and Fairlamb, and at first they had few manifestations ; but they fought the
1'j thing right through, and succeeded in developing some of the most astound-
i ing phenomena connected with modern Spiritualism. A year ago their hall
j was in a bad state, but now it has been renovated. Mr. Harper speaks
i despairingly about Birmingham, and, as he is a lecturer there, perhaps some
! of his remarks about public speakers refer to his own utterances. There is
j division among Spiritualists there. I was in Birmingham ten days ago, and
on Sunday evening we had a good attendance in a large hall; the collection
was a large one. Mrs. Groom works hard in Birmingham to promote the
I interests of Spiritualism. A* regards Wales', I have had a little correspond-
) j ence with Cardiff Spiritualists, and although they are in a divided state, I
j i think that the dissensions are not of a very deep nature ; I have advised them
j j to settle all these little matters at a general tea-meeting. In Llanelly Mr,
j I Young has done much. In Jersey Mr. J. de Carteret was my host; we held
i meetings in the Prince of Wales’s Assembly Rooms in St. Helier’s, under the
II presidency of Lieut.-Col. Fawcett. Meetings were also held elsewhere, and
these were the first meetings in connection with Spiritualism ever held in
the Channel Islands. The people there are staunch Roman Catholics, who
believe themselves to be irrevocably in the right. The audience in the
Assembly Rooms was a respectable one, and one of the listeners suggested
that the subject of the trance address from the spirits should be “The Horse
which is to Win the next Derby.” Where such information is desired from the.
.next world, it is evident that the spiritual soil wants ploughing up. Spirit-
I ualism is extending very much in the provinces. The external work of
j Spiritualism is only half equal to that which we sometimes see accomplished
I in the provinces, for there it enters into the lives of the people—it is a vital
I reality governing their conduct. They often say at public meetings that their
j lives have been fired with holy fervour by the new revelation. Four British
I societies are working in alliance with this Association. I should like to see
i all the others doing the same. Let them tell us whether they wish co-oper¬
ation. Union is strength, disunion is weakness, and we should all certainly
gain by working together.
'j Mr. W. H. Harrison: I have been to many of the places mentioned by Mr.
1 Pearce, and before the National Association was formed gave close attention
82
TH3E SPIKITUALIST.
^eb. 16, 1877.
for several years to the influences which govern the formation, breaking up,
and permanency of Spiritualistic societies. When a society first forms in any
locality, Spiritualists of all varieties of opinion work together; they are at the
outset glad to meet each other, and to have opportunities of talking over sub¬
jects alien to the mind of the outside world. As a local society gradually in¬
creases in power, and practical work has to be accomplished, the society tends
to divide into two sections, the one consisting chiefly of critical people who
accept the facts of Spiritualism subject to the dictates of reason and logic, the
other consisting chiefly of emotional people who accept Spiritualism more as a
ms+ter of faith, and in whom the critical faculty is less developed. The latter
believe every word uttered by a trance medium to come from a spirit, and do
notl ike the undeniable circumstance to be pointed out that the phraseology
and grammatical construction of sentences coming from the mouth of the en¬
tranced medium are usually the same as his own, therefore that the communi¬
cations are in many cases—though not in all—to a large extent coloured byjthe
mentality of the medium. After a time these two orders of mind find that
they cannot work harmoniously together, and they at last separate. Such a
separation once took place in-the Dalston Society without any quarrelling,
and a temporary new Association was started in the immediate neighbourhood.
I know of two societies wherein this unavoidable state of division has been
nearly reached, and any day we may expect to hear news of the actual separa¬
tion. If anybody says that these two sections should work together in the
same society, he makes a mistake ; the mental food which suits the one
does not suit the other, and the sooner they separate and work in their
own ways the better. There is nothing to regret in the division, any more
than we should be sorry that a tree has many branches instead of one, and
those who demand that both shall work in unity are simply demanding an
impossibility—are demanding that one of the laws of the universe shall be
broken. The sooner they separate the better, rather than attempt
to work together united by a jarring chain. By a process of
natural law, which nobody can overcome, Spiritualists everywhere are
separating into two great sections—into the critical and emotional orders
of mind. It is not for me to pharisaically say that one of these orders
of mind is superior to the other, but I do say that after the separation has
taken place, both ought to work unitedly against the common foe, against the
darkness and ignorance outside, but without attempting to interfere in any
way with each other’s management of their own particular organisations. The
organisations formed by people of the critical order, of mind are as a rule per¬
manent ; those formed by the emotional order have a fleeting uncertain exist¬
ence. If the numbers of the members in organisations, and other exact
figures, contained in Mr. Pearce’s paper, could be tabulated, it would be good ;
it is work of a kind which some committee of this Association ought to have
constantly in hand, and such tabulations should not be confined merely to
societies existing in Great Britain. The other figures in the paper consisting
of the opinion of one man as to the number of Spiritualists in his neighbour¬
hood, without saying how many children he includes, or what he means by
“ Spiritualists,” and whose guess would probably differ widely from that made
by another Spiritualist living in the same town, are comparatively worthless.
Before sitting down I should like to say that I know of no evidence of the
reliability of Mr. Pearce’s assertion that Spiritualism has enemies in the
clergy. So far as I know the clergy have been liberal in the extreme in the
matter, and they take to Spiritualism far more quickly and naturally than do
the ministers of dissenting denominations. Mr. Colley, recently curate of
Portsmouth, and now chaplain to H.M.S. Malabar, has long publicly avowed
his Spiritualism, yet he has been in no way persecuted by the Church, The
Rev. W. W. Newbould, Clerk in Holy Orders, is a member of the Council of
this Association, and has not been persecuted or annoyed in any way what¬
ever. We have also other clergymen. among our members. Mr. H. R.
Haweis, who does not profess to believe in Spiritualism, has spoken
very highly of Spiritualists from the pulpit, and the Rev. C. Maurice Davies
has over and i over again, on the platform and in the press, certified to the
reality of the phenomena; yet neither of them have been in the slightest
degree ill-treated by ecclesiastical authorities. The clergy have more liberty
than most dissenting ministers, the latter being completely under the thumbs
of persons less intelligent than themselves, and whose rule necessarily tends
to restrict liberty and genius. I say this from a perfectly impartial point of
view, without being personally interested in the progress of either church or
dissent. I look upon both from a scientific standpoint. In regard to what
Mr. Morse said about Spiritualism influencing people’s lives, I am inclined to
dispute that those who make long speeches at public meetings about their
newly acquired purity, are better than those who say nothing of the kind, and
who do not attend public meetings at which “ big talks ” take place, simply
because their time is too valuable, but who, when real work has to be done,
quietly go in and do it. The lives of the latter are just as much imbued with
spiritual principles, although they do not parade their virtues. (Mr. Morse :
Hear, hear.) Notwithstanding the length of my present talk I detest talkers,
and think those people infinitely superior who say nothing, but when anything
has to be done go in and do the work without palaver.
Mr. G. R. Tapp: Mr. Pearce has given us a useful paper. Mr. Harrison
says justly that in London we get no persecution from the clergy of the
Established Church. I think we have scarcely a single enemy in the whole
body; at least, I only know of one who has done anything against us, and ho
is a man of no importance. It is by the scientific people1 we are attacked,
abused, and misrepresented. (Hear, hear.) I hope Mr. Harrison will not
think that remark hard, because it is a fact.
Mr. Harrison: I quite agree with what you say, and if it had occurred to
me at the moment should have said the same myself.
Mr. Tapp: Spiritualism is catholic; it comes to everybody, to each and to
all—to Christian, Turk, Jew, Jumper, infidel, and heretic—consequently, in
such a mixture there must be differences of opinion, but it is to be regretted
if such differences lead to disunion. We have the outside community against
us, therefore we cannot afford to quai’rel with each other. Why not combine
to fight the common enemy ? Surely we might meet together under some
common rules. Let each society appeal to its neighbour for aid; let us leave
out of the, question all theology, and meet on the ground of mutual organisa¬
tion for defensive purposes. I hope our friend’s paper will let our provincial
friends know that we do not forget them, but take a deep interest in their
welfare—that we believe we are able to help them, and that they can help us ;
the motto should be, “ One and all.” We should join to resist the attempt to
stifle inquiry, originating chiefly with the scientific world.
Dr. Carter Blake (Chairman) : The paper forms a groundwork from which
we could construct a map, on which we might mark in colours the distribution
of Spiritualism in various districts in Great Britain. It will then be possible
to draw lines connecting these spots and describing definite zones, to give an i
idea of the general distribution of people Who declare themselves to be
Spiritualists. I mean maps on the same principle as thbse drawn
up by Broca for other purposes. I was surprised to see the omission
of Ireland in Mr. Pearce’s account, and do not know what
statistics exist as to the spread of Spiritualism in that country. Why should
we not have an almanack setting forth useful statistical facts ? Every re¬
spectable grocer and keeper of a public-house has his almanack; why should
we not have ours ? (Laughter.) Mr. Morse has spoken of local jealousies;
we can perhaps scarcely realise or understand them here in London, for in
country towns such influences as the dresses worn by rival lady members
may form topics of war, [and consign an ephemeral society to Sternal
oblivion. (Laughter.) I do not think the religious difficulty is of any real
importance whatever. I have never seen even from the great Nonconformist
body any particular opposition to the truths of Spiritualism; there may be
opposition in isolated cases, but not very frequently. More ministers of the
Established Church favour Spiritualism than do those connected with the
Nonconformists, but perhaps this depends not upon difference of doctrine,
but upon the University education and greater culture of ministers connected
with the Established Church; they are therefore more liberal and more dis¬
posed to receive the facts of Spiritualism; this I believe to be the real state
of the case, and I hope that I make these remarks without offence to either
religious body, for I am happy to say that I belong to neither of them myself.
There are few Spiritualists in the south and west of England, and when my
proposed map is prepared I think we shall see a refutation of what our
Teutonic friends assert that Spiritualism flourishes with the superstitious
typical Celt, who lives chiefly in the south and west of England, although in
these districts there are few Spiritualists, which is a fact of great importance
to us. I speak as a Celt.
Mr. Morse: From my experience in the provinces, I can support what Mr.
Harrison has said about the clergy ; the ministers of the Established Church
either let us alone most severely, or are favourable to Spiritualism. The
preachers who oppose us are the Stigginses of society—the narrow-minded
Baptist preachers, and individuals of that type. The increase of culture and
education is the best foundation for the spread of Spiritualism.
Mrs. Lowe : I wish some clear definition had been put forth as to what is
meant by Spiritualism. It is said that there is a great absence of it in the
south and west of England. If we mean by Spiritualism something which
acts upon the body and mind of man, there is an enormous number of Spirit¬
ualists in the south and west of England, like the Shakers and Ranters who
abound there, and who believe that they are moved by the Spirit. Therefore
a clear and particular definition ought to be given of Spiritualism. If we
limit the term to those who believe in spirits separated from the Great Spirit
of the Universe, then what some of the speakers have said may apply to the
districts just mentioned.
Mr. Shorter: I should like to put in a word on behalf of dissenting
ministers ; for although few of them support Spiritualism, there are some
eminent men among them who are quite favourable to it, including Dr.
Parker and the Rev. John Page Hopps. In my locality I know one who
makes no secret of his belief in Spiritualism, and holds stances in his own
family. I think we are ourselves much to blame for any opposition we get
from religious denominations, for most of their attacks have arisen from
passages offensive to them which have been found in certain spiritual
journals and books; there has been too much virulent antagonism to Chris¬
tianity in some of our publications to give us any reason to expect that such
utterances can be quietly received. There should be a more tolerant and
charitable spirit among some of us. I think Mr. Harrison’s statement about
the division of Spiritualists into emotional and critical people is true, but I
do not think that emotional people are always ignorant, or that critical
people are always the most intelligent; still, in the main, what he has said
is true.
Mr. R. Pearce, in reply to the various speakers, said : With respect to my
remarks about the clergy, I have been attacked upon all sides. I did not say
“ clergy,” I merely said “ parsons.” (Oh i) But one or two instances have
come under my own notice of persecution by ministers of the Established
Church; in one case the persecution was very bitter; still, I am willing to
believe it was an exceptional case. From all parts of the country I have
heard of bitter persecutions from dissenting preachers—from Baptists and from
those who conduct class meetings. From several of the localities to which I
applied for information about Spiritualism I received no reply. From
Darlington the only reply was a letter in a newspaper which gave no informa¬
tion on the subject. I think that in the future there will be a great many
Spiritualists in the south and west of England. The replies of Spiritualists
sent to me varied very much in the statements they contained as to the sup¬
posed number of Spiritualists in their respective localities.
Mr. Harrison: That is one reason why the tabulation of such guesses would
do more harm than good, and why only the numbers in enrolled societies
should be so recorded.
The Secretary (Miss Kislingbury) said that she would lay the suggestion
about drawing up tables before the Conference Committee. Inaccurate
numbers might be left out, but those which were accurate could be inserted,
and the names of secretaries, mediums, and items of that kind might be
arranged in columns for public use.
The meeting then adjourned until the following morning.
A PAPER BY MR. W. H. HARRISOK—THB RELATION OF THE LAW TO PUBLIC
MEDIUMS—SPOTTED TAIL “THE JUST ”—THE DIFFICULTIES AND TRIALS OF
MEDIUMS—THE INIMITABLE PERFECTION OF THE LAW.
Last Friday morning the proceedings of the Conference were resumed under
the presidency of Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law.
The Chairman said: The Bar pretty unanimously holds the idea that the
Courts are in the wrong in some of their recent decisions in relation to
mediums. It is to be regretted that men of science, who should be liberal,
are so learned that they attack any other creed than their own, especially the
Christian creed, which they so much deride, and for which they wish to sub¬
stitute the theory of nothingness hereafter. It is to be regretted that they
shield themselves under the cloak of popular prejudice, and protect them¬
selves from new truths by recourse to the police-courts of this country. They
are both prosecutors and persecutors on the subject of Spiritualism. Most
theological beliefs stand upon admitted facts, without proof; Spiritualists
assert that they are able to prove the said facts, and they invite the public
to test them for themselves. “ No,” says science, “ we will not permit this;
we will howl down mediums and prevent the bringing forward of such
evidence.” A more cowardly line of action cannot be conceived, and the
names of those who do these things will hereafter be received with oppro¬
brium, because Spiritualism is, as a physical fact, a truth, therefore must and
will be established in the future.
Feb. 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
83
Mr. W. H. Harrison then read the following paper:—My subject of “ The
Relation of the Law to Public Mediums ” may be dealt with summarily, for the
law has no relation to mediums, and evidence which proves the genuineness of any
spiritual manifestation is all that is necessary to be advanced to secure the con¬
demnation of an innocent man, the hearing of witnesses for the prosecution being
then superfluous. It is a fact, for instance, that materialised spirit hands form in
the air near certain mediums, and that if any unscrupulous person chooses to
charge one of those mediums with imposture the latter is sure to be convicted by
a court of law, because the knowledge of the phenomena of the universe possessed
by the legal tribunal is unconsciously assumed to include everything which takes
place within the realms of nature. Those who bring before such tribunals evi¬
dence proving these new truths are in the position the Astronomer Royal would
occupy did he submit to the judgment of the chief of the Kickaboos andhis people the
demonstration of the recession and advance of the stars, as revealed by the shifting
of the lines in the spectrum. Does not he, the mighty chief, know that the stars
are the eyes of the snake-gods, watching the deeds of heroism, the number of
enemies slain in battle by his dark and lovely people ? Have not all the tribe
known this from time immemorial ? Is it not certified by the great medicine-man,
Howling Wind, the tail-talker, who every morning chatters more than all the rest
of the tribe put together ? And shall the mad white man come there with his idle
jests to'deceive a gravefand intelligent people? No. He, Sitting Bull, will listen
to the white astronomer with all the silence and dignity of his renowned ancestor,
Spotted Tail “ the Just,” for the worst of impostors must have an impartial
hearing; but he, the wise ruler, knows what the result will be; verily, the scalp of
the white talker will soon be missing. The law courts cannot deal efficiently even with
ordinary scientific cases, as proved by the evidence given by barristers and others
before the last Patent Law Commission, at nearly all the sittings of which I was
present. The evidence tended to prove that the decision in patent cases usually
depended not upon real merits, but upon the extent to )vhich the ignorance of the
judge and of the jury about scientific facts was played upon by the litigants, and
it was admitted that a case when thus decided by rule of thumb was a cheap one
if the law costs amounted only to £800 or £1,000. In Spiritualistic cases there is
a dead weight of popular prejudice as well as ignorance to fight against. It is a
serious matter, and should deeply move the conscience of the nation, that certain
subjects of the Queen are completely outlawed through no fault of their own.
The more remarkable mediums are all the more helpless, because during much of
their time they are under abnormal influences; they are then in a state of trance,
and as completely under the control of another will than their [own as is the
mesmeric sensitive on the platform of a “ biologist,” and who can be made by the
lecturer to believe or to do anything he pleases. The abnormal phenomena some¬
times excite such religious prejudices that the medium is turned out of his own
home ; he is then abused by disbelievers, coldly treated by certain Spiritualists for
taking money for his seances instead of starving, he is governed at times by un¬
seen powers, and finally is liable to be imprisoned as an impostor at any time,
whether he be guilty or innocent. Evidence strong enough to hang every man in
London would not prove to a court of law any spiritual phenomenon to be genuine,
though with strange inconsistency the whole nation professes in church every
Sunday to believe in numberless manifestations which took place more than 2,000
years ago, writing on the wall by materialised spirit hands included. If on the
Monday a friend offers to prove to the worshippers the truth of that which they on
the Sunday in the sanctuary professed to believe, the friend is told that he is fit
for a lunatic asylum. Limiting the number of public mediums will do no harm to
Spiritualism, for we have but three or four, the great majority of mediums confining
their seances to their own friends and families. But persecution of mediums dis¬
honours the nation; it is “ un-English” to be afraid of scientific inquiry, and to
compel technical investigation to be carried on in strict privacy. The sanctity of
private life the law cannot invade; philosophers are agreed that where political
edicts come into conflict with social usages, the political power at the root of the
edicts is overthrown, social custom being stronger than legal enactments. At
. present I do not intend to deal in detail with any of thejlegal or other points con¬
nected with the unprovoked attacks upon mediums which have recently come be¬
fore the law courts, or to express any opinion, whether in some cases the on¬
slaughts were not more or less well founded; nevertheless on some of the said
points I entertain strong opinions. These matters may well be left to the legal
gentlemen connected with this Association, gentlemen who have done so much to
help us at the present juncture, and whose valuable assistance deserves our respect
and our warmest thanks. Chief among these friends is Mr. C. C. Massey.
(Applause.) Perhaps it would be well if the National Association of Spiritualists
were to appoint a committee to collect and place in the library all the Acts of
Parliament which in any way can be brought to bear upon mediums, and to draw
up a report stating what the actual position is, and what should be done in the
future. The police-court actions will have the reverse effect to that which various
prosecutors have alleged that they intended, namely, imposture will be greatly en¬
couraged thereby, because mediums, having to frame conditions which protect
them from persecution, will be tempted to mix the real with the false when they
are able to do so with impunity. Spiritualists would have preferred that mediums
who practised imposture should come within the reach of the laws of the land, but
if the innocent are to be punished with the guilty, the public are responsible for
the taking of steps which will shield both. A great legal authority has written to
me suggesting that every man who comes to a public seance shall have to sign his
name in a book beneath a statement that he attends on the understanding that the
origin or nature of anything which he may witness is not guaranteed. Such is
one of the suggested subterfuges into which honest people may be driven because
scientific truth is helpless before the law, and attacked by alleged men of science.
That such un-English subterfuges should be necessary is a disgrace to the nation.
No doubt the work of the Committee of legal gentlemen will be efficiently per¬
formed, everything done in order, and the official report duly signed at the end,
perhaps, of the following concluding paragraph:—
In witness whereof we the parties aforesaid,
Hereunto put our signs and our seals and no more said,
Being all that these presents intend to express,
Notwithstanding, moreover, and nevertheless.
A farmer whose crop was burnt up by the sun in a dry season, comforted
himself in a heathenish manner by the reflection that his neighbour had lost more
than himself because of the heat. In like manner may we congratulate ourselves
that however bad our legal system may be, in the days of old it was worse, as set
forth in the following lines by a lawyer, on legal abuses repealed shortly before
the verses were written:—
Such was the humanity
And wisdom of the law,
That if in his indictment there
Appeared to be a flaw,
The court assigned him counsellors
To argue on the doubt,
Provided he himself had first
Contrived to point it out;
But lest their clemency perchance
Be craftily abused,
To show him the indictment they
Most sturdily refused.
But still that he might understand
The nature of the charge,
The same was in the Latin tongue
Read out to him at large.
lil And lest his wily advocate
jil The court should overreach
]/! His advocate was not allowed
!j,'j The privilege of speech,
I1! | ’Twas thus the law kept rogues in awe,
t [ Gave honest men protection;
I 'I Discreetly framed, by all was named,
jl f] Of wisdom the perfection.
j ] the DISCUSSION—THE VAGRANCY AND WITCHCRAFT ACTS—CLAIRVOYANT
j'j POWERS PUNISHABLE AT LAW—AN ASTROLOGER IN SPITE OF HIMSELF.
II i Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-at-Law: I do not wish to speak of “ the perfection
T i of wisdom.” I do not think that the law is to blame for what we have latelj
-[)[ undergone. I have been thinking of late upon what grounds we could"
jjj frame demands to Parliament fora revision of the law, and I do not seo
jii upon what basis we could place any reasonable demand for a change in
ijj the criminal law. I do not think that the law is in fault, but the
|jl ignorance of the administrators of the law. The law is unobjectionable.
I j | The old Act of George II. might perhaps be strained to strike at mediumship
i(l apart from fraud, but it is difficult to say that such would be the case. I
|. i think the judgment of the Court of Exchequer in the Monck case about the
11! applicability of the Vagrancy Act, to be thoroughly wrong. You bring a
j | j charge against a medium who may have acted under abnormal influences,
I {! and it is hard, under such circumstances, to shut him up in prison; at the
I j I same time, are we to go to Parliament to ask for a remedy for such offences ?
III I could not sign a petition to that effect myself. Their mediumship being
II j honest, there may yet be fraud, so ridicule and discredit are thus cast upon
IJ! Spiritualism. That is the fault of our position, and not the fault of the law.
i (• Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, M.R.I., one of the magistrates for the county of
i) I Middlesex, said : I think the only point in which the law is in fault is that
:•) | clause about palmistry in the Vagrant Act. I think it is a gross injustice to
11 i send fortune-tellers to prison; it is merely their despised condition of life
i > I which causes them to be imprisoned. I think that the whole clause wants
i j I repealing, and that if anybody dupes anybody else, he shall be punished for
! (! the offence as a substantial crime, under the Act for obtaining money under
I (| false pretences. It is idle to say that the clause is necessary to protect
ij j people from their own ignorance.
IH Mr. H. T. Humphreys, Barrister-at-Law: I agree with the remarks of Mr.
in Wedgwood. The Act of George II. is really one of the superstitious
iji edicts of our ancestors, and on going further back we find Acts
m of the same kind against witchcraft. I think we have grown
;)i out of any legislation of this kind, and ought to be more enlightened. No
\}\ doubt much mischief is done by fortune-tellers, but the remedy is not
j (i far to seek. Mr. Harrison has pointed out some of the difficulties in the
| (; matter. The chief difficulty is in the want of education in the administrators
ijj of the law; they judge everything by their own limited experience. The
j) I question is a difficult one, but on abstract grounds I agree with Mr. Wedg-
j (j wood, I also think it would be well to do away with the remainder of the
i (j singularly superstitious laws against witchcraft; at the same time I doubt
j j | whether the remnant of these laws can be made to apply to mediumship.
j) i Before going to Parliament we should wait, and take very great care that any-
j (i thing submitted to the legislature is well considered beforehand. There has
[ j I often, in a seance, been unconscious imposture, and that is one of the diffi-
i j i culties of the case, because some of the spirits who produce manifestations
jjj actually attempt to practise deception without their instrument, the medium,
j j j knowing it; mesmerists, as well as Spiritualists, are aware of this. The fact
i j j that some imposture comes from the other side of life complicates the ques-
j j j tion considerably.
jjj * Dr. Carter Blake asked whether the ordinary laws attending the reception
jj of evidence had not, in recent cases, been strained severely against Spirit-
jjj ualists. Alluding to the case of Reg. v. Treadaway, decided recently, in
jjj which evidence had been given of previous conversations with the prisoner,
jjj at which the deponents were not present, and of which they only knew by
jjj hearsay, he asked the gentlemen 6f the long robe whether such evidence,
jjj admitted without protest by the Crown in this case, was not, as a fact,
j j I excluded in the Slade case, and if so, whether it ought to have been excluded
j j; in law ? Secondly, experts were often admitted to submit evidence to the
jjj uncommon sense of a British jury—(laughter)—in matters affecting not only
jjj science, medical or otherwise, but even handwriting; the evidence of such
jjj experts in the Slade case had been partly rejected by the Bow-street magis-
jji trate? and he would ask whether such rejection of evidence affected the
j j j conviction of any person charged under the statute 5 George IV., cap. 83 ?
j j j He thought that scientific men were under a heavy debt of gratitude to the
jjj legal advisers of the Defence Committee, and especially to Mr. Serjeant
j j j Ballantine and Mr. C. C. Massey.
j j Mr. Dawson Rogers: I would also appeal to those who have been called “ the
j j j gentlemen of the long robe,” to help us to understand whereabouts we are. I
j j j thought I had grasped the position up to a certain point, but when I read the
jjj judgment of the Court of Exchequer on Monck’s appeal, I confess it was
jjj beyond my understanding. I cannot make out on what ground that judgment
j j j was given, or what the effect of it will be. Somebody has suggested that we
j j j should try to get the laws altered, but any, such attempts would be futile ; we
j j j should merely be laughed at. I would rather appeal to the public than cringe
jjj to the Legislature, and would appeal on the ground of honesty and fair play,
jjj I have a suggestion, however, to make in regard to the Legislature, and that
jjj is that we get up a petition, very largely signed, requesting the appointment
jjj by Parliament of a Commission to inquire into the phenomena of Spiritualism,
j j j and offering to give every facility for investigation. (Applause.) As a
jjj matter of fact the proposition would be pooh-poohed by Parliament, but the
jjj application would get publicity, and we should gain the credit of not being
jjj afraid of inquiry.
ij j Mr. Massey, who was invited to speak a second time, said: Mr. Edlin ex-
I pressed the opinion that, independently of the defect in the conviction in the
Slade case, it was no use amending it unless it were possible to show that
j even then an offence had been committed under the Act. The Act said “ by
j palmistry or otherwise,” and the whole question was as to the meaning of the
j two words “ or otherwise.” "We said “they means something of the same
i nature as palmistry,” the words “ or otherwise” being in accordance with
; legal custom, restricted by the meaning of the special words which preceded
j them. I hope the superior court will overrule the decision of the Court of
j Exchequer. In fortune-telling there is a direct appeal to the superstition of
j the dupe who merely relies upon what is said to him, but Slade proposed to
j show certain things, and said, “ I tell you my opinion as to their origin, but
j you must judge for yourself.” The persons present had as many oppor-
j tunities of judging as the medium had, so there was no appeal to superstition
i or to credulity. Any man with good eyes and a fair understanding might
84
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 16, 1877,
be supposed to be competent to judge for himself. As regards Dr. Blake’s
question of the admissibility of scientific evidence, he must remember that
Spiritualism is not admitted to be a science ; the courts virtually say, “ Pack
of nonsense; we won’t listen to such rubbish.” We cannot create public
recognition of Spiritualism as a science to make the evidence of experts
available.
Mr. Harrison: Yes; that is the very point. I once thought that courts of
justice decided cases upon the evidence before them, and were higher than
instead of subservient to scientific men when they were appealed to for
justice. What Act of Parliament places Law Courts under the jurisdiction
of scientific societies?
Mr. Massey continued: Mrs. Everitt has proved that hundreds of words
' are sometimes written at seances in a few seconds. I cannot see why such
evidence should not settle the Slade case, and be as relevant as any scientific
evidence given by doctors as to the effect of drugs in cases of murder. I
think the Slade case ought to have been decided upon the facts, and I do not
find fault with the law, but with its administration.
The Chairman: Who would present the petition to Parliament suggested by
Mr. Rogers ?
Mr. Rogers: It is a common thing for a member to present a petition which
he utterly abhors. (Laughter.)
Mr. Thomas Shorter: The plan suggested by Mr. Rogers was adopted many
years ago in the United States; a petition requesting investigation of the
phenomena of Spiritualism was sent to Congress signed by 30,000 persons.
It was a very able document, and was presented by a gentleman who had no
faith in the matter whatever. Of course it was laid on the table, but it made
a great impression on the public mind, whereby the real object of sending it
in was gained.
The Chairman made a few remarks to the effect that his opinion was that
the decision in the Lawrence case was bad law.
Mr. Harrison: I agree with Mr. Rogers that it is not right to cringe to
authority, but think that when the Treasury took certain steps in relation to a
movement of which they were probably utterly ignorant, it was but right to
give them full information before attempting to lay their conduct before the
public. We ought to assume that those who govern the country are attempt¬
ing to manage public business as well as they can, and if they do wrong unin¬
tentionally by acting too hastily, we should point out to them in writing the
nature of their acts, to give them an opportunity to retrace their steps; if,
however, they still persevere in that which is not right, we are then justly in
a position to show the public that they do it knowingly. Some four or five
years ago an old woman of the name of Mrs. Tranter was sentenced to be
imprisoned for five years for pretending to discover lost property; if she is
not released by this time, not many months of her sentence remain unexpired,
supposing that she has been strong enough to survive the punishment. The
decision of the Court was thought by the public to be a very hard one at the
time, and some of the people in the town in which she lived complained about
it to the Home Secretary, who, however, did nothing in the matter. I
am not aware that she was either a medium or a Spiritualist, or that
she ever heard of Spiritualism, and it is quite possible she may have
been an intentional impostor; but to say that the enormously harsh sentence
was a just one, under the worst of circumstances, is preposterous. The more
serious point of the whole matter is, that the power actually exists of detecting
the whereabouts of lost property by clairvoyance, as Mr. Alfred Russell
Wallace and others have pointed out in their writings, and I have every reason
to believe that the question, whether Mrs. Tranter possessed such powers or
not, was never raised. The Act of Parliament strikes at the innocent and the
guilty alike. The late Mr. Guppy thought the sentence a horrible one, and
sent a man down to the town in which Mrs. Tranter resided, to make inquiries;
he did his work inefficiently, bringing back news that on certain occasions
she was rumoured to have actually been the means of recovering lost property,
but he did not attempt to collect definite evidence to that effect. Before sitting
down I will mention an extraordinary case of the finding of lost property.
When an astronomer sets up an observatory not far from a poor neighbourhood,
it is a common thing for the people in the vicinity to regard him as an
astrologer, and to call upon him for assistance when the family cat is missing,
or articles have been lost. A friend of mine with a good connection in scientific
circles, told me that a celebrated, astronomer, whe lives in a cele¬
brated observatory, recently stated that he had become quite disgusted
with the applications made to him for astrological information, so one
day when a woman came to him for information about her lost property
he determined to punish her. Instead of saying that he was not
an astrologer, he remarked: “My good woman, your house has a front
door.” “Yes, sir, quite true,” was the reply. “And,” said he, making
rather a bold venture this time, “ there is a small garden in front of your
house.” “Yes, sir, that’s right.” “And,” continued the seer, “ a path leads
from your front door to the gate in the front garden.” “ Yes, sir! Quite
true! Quite true!” said the delighted woman, whose faith in the prophet
was rapidly rising. The revelator added: “When you come out of the
front gate you can turn to the right as well as to the left, and if you
turn to the right, and go far enough, you come to a third turning on the
left.” “Yes, sir,” said the good woman, “that’s perfectly true.” “Well,
then,” said he, “go down that turning, enter the gate of the first field
you come to 6n the right, and look out for a place where the ground
has been newly disturbed. If you dig deep enough you will find your
property.” The thankful woman went away perfectly satisfied, and when,
a few days later, the astronomer saw her coming towards the observatory,
he lashed himself into a state of moral elevation, and prepared himself to
lecture her about her superstition, and to tell her how thoroughly she de¬
served the hard labour he had given her as a punishment. He said, directly !
she entered the room—“Well, my good woman, did you do as I told you?” I
“ Oh, yes, sir,” I did everything you said, and I found the property, and you i
are the greatest astrologer that ever lived ! ” (Laughter.) The astronomer j
was completely staggered, and, to his great aggravation, his fame for dis- i
covering lost property is established in the neighbourhood. My friend, who |
told me this, believes the story to be true, and is rather doubtful whether
impressional mediumship is not connected with the matter. My own opinion !
is, that there is a strong after-dinner flavour about the narrative.
On Sunday evening, last week, Mr. Harper, of Birmingham, lectured at the j
Meyerbeer Hall, ^ under the auspices of the Liverpool Association of Spirit- i
ualists. Dr. William Hitchman, President, occupied the chair. Mr. Harper’s i
address set forth the necessity of a higher knowledge of social science. The j
question of sound physiology was largely 'dwelt upon, in regard especially to j
the influence of woman upon the rising generation.
THE SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE COMMITTEE.
DISBURSEMENTS FOR LAW EXPENSES.
I During- the past six weeks the committee have had eleven meetings, when
i much business has been transacted.
The Countess of Caithness, Messrs. Hensleigh Wedgwood, W. Oxley, Charles
Blackburn, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, the Rev. W. Newbould, Messrs. Wm. Tebb, and
N. Fabyn Dawe have joined the honorary committee. The subscriptions
I amount to £875 2s. 3d. Some further sum is expected from the United States.
Applications having been made for aid to defray the legal expenses of Messrs.
] Monok and Lawrence, the consent of subscribers to the fund was solicited and
j obtained, whereby the committee were enabled to contribute to each of these
| oases the sum of £70.
Upwards of £300 has already been paid in law expenses in the cases of
j Messrs. Slade and Simmons, and there yet remains an unpaid account of
about £250. A. Jot, Hon. Sec.
PUBLIC MEDIUMSHIP.
! At the meeting of the committee last Monday, the following resolutions
i were passed :—
i Resolved—“ That in the present state of public opinion it is desirable that
i public mediums exercise great care, especially as to the admission to their
| seances of persons unknown to them.”
j “ That, with a view to securing public mediums as far as possible from risk
| of legal prosecution, this committee strongly recommends—
| “ ‘ 1. That no stranger be admitted without a formal introduction from a
I well-known Spiritualist.’
“ 12. That a notice, similar to the form appended, be conspicuously posted
in the seance room, and that the attention of each visitor be drawn to it.’
“ * 3. That such visitor be required to sign his or her name in a book kept
for the purpose, after reading the above-named notice.’
“ ‘ 4. That unequivocal test conditions be insisted on, and rigid order be
maintained in all cases.’ ”
While this committee makes these recommendations for the better security
of public mediums, it distinctly declines to incur the responsibility of defend¬
ing actions at law which mediums have brought on themselves by neglect of
precaution or by exercising their profession for gain.
This committee further recommends that public mediums should be saved
for the present from the necessity of giving open seances, so far as may be, by
being engaged systematically at the houses of leading Spiritualists who feel
able in this way to introduce the subject to their friends. Alex. Calder,
Chairman of the Spiritualists' Defence Fund Committee..
National Association Conversazione.—The two last soirees of the
National Association of Spiritualists have been badly attended, in consequence
of the public not having been informed beforehand of the attractions provided.
No special notice of the January soiree having been given, several persons
who did not know it was to come off at all, were absent in consequence,
and had the,public known that Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat) had
kindly consented to give dramatic readings on the occasion, a great number
of friends would have been present. In like manner, if it had been known
that at the February soiree the President of the National Association in¬
tended to review the progress of Spiritualism during the past year, a better
attendance would have been secured. The public do not care for much read¬
ing or speaking at these social meetings, but about three* quarters of an hour
well occupied in this way would be a great source of attraction, if publicly
announced before hand.
The National Association of Spiritualists.—At a meeting of the
Council of this Association last Tuesday night, Mr. Morell Theobald laid
upon the table an account of the receipts and expenditure of the Association
for the year 1876. When the Association first took permanent premises two
years ago, a guarantee fund from a few gentlemen, amounting to £200 a year
for three years, was established, in addition to ordinary members’ subscriptions,
in order that the Association might carry on its work without getting into
debt. Although £70 of this fund was not called in in 1876, and although the
Association had not last year the advantage of a sum of. £90 raised by a bazaar,
as in 1875—making a total of reduced income from extraneous sources
amounting to £160—the members of the Association have increased so in
number that the auditor’s report shows a balance in hand of £11 at the end of
the year just closed. There is some talk of abolishing the guarantee fund
this year, as the expenses may possibly be entirely covered by the ordinary
subscriptions of members. The balance in hand at the end of last month was
£90 13s. 4d. The outstanding liabilities of the Association are estimated at £5.
DAlston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.—The ordinary
monthly session of the Council of this Association was held on Thursday
evening last week: present, Mrs. Amelia Corner (in the chair), Mr. Thomas
Blyton, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, and Mr. Jonathan Tozeland. Letters of general
interest were read from Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten and Mr. J. J. Morse.
Mr. James Garrard was elected an ordinary member. Presentations, received
since the last meeting of the Council, were laid upon the table, and accepted,
with a cordial vote of thanks to the donors—Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten
and Mr. Fred. A. Binney. The honorary secretary, having reported arrange¬
ments for interchange of members’ privileges, as regards attendance at
ordinary meetings and seances, with the “ East End Spiritual Institution,”
the arrangement was confirmed. Mr. E. W. Wallis’s offer to visit the Asso¬
ciation on Thursday evening, the 22nd instant, was reported and accepted.
Dr. W. B. Carpenter at Stockton-on-Tees.—On Monday evening last,
Dr. W. B. Carpenter, of London, delivered his lecture on “ Epidemic
Delusions,” in the Exchange Hall, Stockton-on-Tees, under the auspices of
the Stockton Literary Association. At a recent meeting of the Literary Asso¬
ciation, one of its members delivered an address favourable to Spiritualism,
and afterwards answered questions on the same subject. He gave his hearers
so many hard nuts to crack, that the Association brought, Dr. Carpenter all
the way from London to give his assertions—his “ dried peas ”—to the people
of Stockton. His lecture was substantially the same as that which he has
been in the habit of delivering on the same subject for many years. All the
old hackneyed arguments against Spiritualism were adduced. The conclu¬
sion of the whole matter was, that “ the best antidote to epidemic delusions—
of which Spiritualism was probably one—was scientific training to methodical .
habits of thought. Three scientific men had already investigated the matter,
and were favourably impressed with its truth ; but although they had distin¬
guished themselves in their own special departments, they had not received
that early scientific training which enabled men to discriminate between that
which was true and that which was false in a matter like Spiritualism.” That
was his (Dr. Carpenter’s) opinion, and, as he had been requested to give it, he
did so.
Feb. 16, 1877.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
IFor purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ-
, ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
acientifio, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, P.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Enes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds; Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. . 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums fialso about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable faqts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit! and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supematural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles find
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of .clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. ad. ,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORMIMIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A' SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. -
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d. ’
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHKS OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by WilUam Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM.' 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s. '
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA
Tuttle,
Two Vols. By Hudson
CAREER
Tuttle.
OF NATURE.
  .s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE, a Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ol Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 0s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M, Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s.
Lately published, in two volumes, 8vo, cloth, price 28s.
A PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on the
NATURE and CONSTITUTION of MAN. By Gkoeqb
G. HARRIS, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute
and Author of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisation con¬
sidered as a Science,” &c.
This work embraces a comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual connection and
dependence of each branch. Topics connected with the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions on this subject,
including the nature, essence, properties, and mode of opera¬
tion of the soul; the alliance between matter and spirit;
reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,
mode of action, ■discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
In correspondence with, and have been consulted by the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with-much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed.
“ The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once a comprehensive intellect, a widespread reading and
experience, an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. All these qualities appear to be combined in Mr.
Harris.”— Westminster Review.
“A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense research,
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of othei s
All these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological intolerance. A perusal will lead every man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more.—Hour.
“This work is one of considerable value, and'of deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to lay it down when you have
once become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture
to assert that it is impossible to read a single chapter of the
book without being struck with the vast array of authorities,
ancient and modem, that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research.”—John Bull,
“Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
and modern anthropologists and philosophers with care; and
the work will always be valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
subject. Every quality and style of thought are represented
by the gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock.”—Public Opinion.
“This is a most elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity. It is, without the name, an Encyclopaedia
of man. Dr. Harris’s work is very valuable as a great collec
tion of facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by himself, and
many of them having been subjected to the correction of
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser^
“ The present work is the first attempt of the kind; and Dr.
Harris deserves praise for the origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In those frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to the intelligence and industry of the
author, and one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—Literary World.
“We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
the question, to seek pleasure and instruction in its pages.
Added value is,given to it by the interesting circumstance
that the proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of the author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Richardson, Dr. Newman, and many others—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—/cwraai of the Anthropological
nstitute.
London: Geor&e Bell & Sons, York-street, Covent-garden.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAHTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN Rou3e, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself .probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage Ad. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IV
THE SPIEITUALIST,
Feb; 16, 1877,
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly-gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “hard labour,’’ and will, in January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity.
The affair is not individual, but relates to all. The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
, When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
"Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance ? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support so will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers
or by the secretary.
The Executive Committee. .
Alexander 0Alder, 1, Hereford-
square, South Kensington, S.W.
'J. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
S.E.
Geo. Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Oum-
berland-place, W,
C. O. Massey.
W. S. Moses, M.A.
Hon. Sec.—A. Joy, 69, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
Honorary Treasurers.
SUBSCRIPTIONS. £ s. d.
The St Petersburg Committee     50 0 0
Mr. G. C. Joad   30 0 0
Miss Douglas      25 0 0
“Nicodemus”  25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder i  21 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze   20 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  20 0 0
Countess Caithness   10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith   10 10 0
„ Thomas Grant    10 10 0
Mr. W. Tebb   10 10 0
Miss H    10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon -  10 0 0
Sir C. Isham, Bart  10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod   10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel   10 0 0
“ Lady Jane Grey ’’     10 0 0
B. P. J     10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood  10 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe     10 0 0
Prince Emil von Wittgenstein    6 0 0
Mr. A. Joy      5 5 0
Mr. J. Enmore Jones     5 0 0
„ C. C. Massey    5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley     5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman  5 0 0
Dr. George Wyld     5 0 0
Mr. T. E. Partridge  D6 5 0 0
Mrs. Hennings   1  5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun      5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer         5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson   5 0 0
“H.”  5 0 0
An American   500
Mrs. Bird    5 0 0
A. v. H       5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3 11 0
Newcastle, per H. N. Kersey  3 10 0
Mrs. Strawbridge   3 3 0
Profit on Sale of Photographs ..;    2 13 0
Mr. J. B. Stones  2 12 6
Mr. H. Withall   2 2 0
Captain James   2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)  2 2 0
Mr. C. Pearson    1  2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead  <  2 2 0
Mr. F. W. Percival  2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun  2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon    2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe      2 0 0
Mr. A. R. Wallace    2 0 0
„ J. C. Ferguson 1  2 0 0
“ Disciple ”  2 0 0
Mrs. Watkins    2 0 0
Mr. J. H. Gledetanes....,     2 0 0
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore     2 0 0
F. J. T. (collected)  ;   12 6
Mr. Geo. Stones    1 10
„ . J. Mould        110
Dr. K. Cook   .'.  110
K. G.  110
Friend to the Cause   110
Mrs. Maltby      110
Mr. C. Ward   1. 1 0.
„ E.D. Rogers    110
„ Morell Theobald  110
„ William Theobald  110
„ R. M. Theobald, M.D  110
„ H.N      110
„ J. Andre   110
„ James Brown      110
The Misses Withall    110
Dr. Baikie   110
Anon, per C. C. Massey     110
A. M. W., by Mr. J. Burns    110
Mr. T. P. Barkas  110
Mrs. J. Y. Vernon  110
Major Menars       10 0
Mr. Tucker     10 0
Mrs. S. Parker  10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley    10 0
Mr. A. Smedley  10 0
„ F. Smedley    10 0
“ D ” (Clericus)   10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan &  10 0
Mr. St. George Stock    10 0
„ C. Reimers      10 0
„ J.Walhouse     10 0
Scrutator       10 0
Spiritualists' Defence Fund continued.
By Mr. J. Burns—
G. Damiani    10 0
J. O.        10 0
“Constantinople”  10 0
Smaller sums    8 10 6
Ditto, collected by Mr. J. Bums  3 19 3
From America.
The following consists of amounts advertised as received by
The Banner of Light newspaper, Boston, U.S., towards the “ Slade
Defence Fund,”,up to the 27th Jan., of which £370 12s. 6d. has
already been remitted to England.
Colby and Rich (Publishers Banner o/ Light), dols.
Boston .....:  200,00
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston   50.00
A. P, H. (a Spirit)    25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston .'.   25,Q0
Henry J. Horn, N. Y. City      5,00
Jefferson Cutter,-Medford, Mass  3,00
G. Sweet, N. Y. City      2,00
Isaac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt  5,00
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass  2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, Q  100,00
J. L. Donaldson, Boston, Mass   5 00
W. H. R      3,00
Ohas. Levy, St. Louis, Mo  2,00
A. Fuller, Waltham. Mass  2,00
Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston   10,00
L. B. Wilson, Boston    3,00
F. A. Gould, Boston  10,00
G. H. Woodis, Worcester  2,00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y   100,00
David Appleton, Lowell, Mass  100,00
Andrew Williams, Lawrence, Mass  100,00
James Codman, Worcester, Mass.    100,00
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass  5,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y  60,00
C. M. Burrett, New Haven, Ct...  2,00
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q  2,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio  2,00
M. A. Giles  2,00
O. Giles  2,00
A Friend to the Cause  2,00
W. Y., Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me  2,00
Geo. W. Smith, Boston, Mass.  20,00
J. DuBois, Everett, Pa  5,00
Mrs. A. C. Whittemore. New Boston, Ct.......... 3,00
L. K. Joslin, Providence, R. 1  3,00
Jas. T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind  10,00
Chas. P. Perot, Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
A Friend, Spencer, Mass   2,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
H. G. Wyte, Buffalo, N. Y   2,00
Joseph Kinsey     5,00
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Tucke  3,00
Martin Hiscox, Providence, R. 1   2,00
Henry Rennan, W. Meriden, Conn   2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111   2,00
“ A Liberal,” Greenville, Me  3,00
H. K. Morrill  2,00
Jos. P. Hazard, Peacedale, R. I '.  5,00
Dr. G.B. Brooklyn, N. Y  3,00
J. N. H., Peacedale, R. 1  25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield, Mass  2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport, Conn  5,00
F. R. Baker, Topeka, Kan.    5,00
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass..  2,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass  5,00
Warren S. Barlow, St. Johnsbury, Vt  5,00
Frederick Schroeder, Papineau, 111  2,50
Joseph Schroeder, ditto  5,00
Samue Robinson, Swansea, Mass  2,00
David A. Mundy, Rahway, N. J,    2,00
“A Friend of the Banner”    50,00
J. W. RobinS, M.D., Uxbridge, Mass  2,00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Roberts, Rush, N.Y  2,00
J. B. Angel, Red Bank, N. J  5,00
Lucy James, Danielsonville, Conn  6,85
Wm. A. Atkins, Provincetown, Mass  5,00
Mrs. Chas, Baldwin, Fayville, Mass  5,00
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass.    2,00
A. M. Gaffield, ditto  2,00
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass  2,00
Mrs. A. L. Pratt, New Haven, Conn  2,00
Samuel Smart, Willoughby, Ohio     2,00
Joseph Dimmock, Stonington, Conn  2,00
Robert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  3.00
Ja^. Lawrence, ditto    3,00
S. C. Moses, Mendota, 111    2,00
B. L. Wade, Jefferson, Ohio  10,00
O. R. Brooklyn, N. Y  2,00
J. F. Hamilton, Berlin, Wis  2,00
E, Man, Litchfield, Mich    5,00
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbour, Mich  2,00
Calven Westover, Oxford, N. Y...  10,00
Friends, Charlotte, Mich  2,50
S. G. N. Millerton, N. Y    2,00
E. R. Whiting, New Haven, Conn  5,00
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y  2,00
W. M. C., Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
B. Ellis, Plymouth, Mass  2,00
S. H. Austin, Syracuse, N.Y  2,00
Jas. Thompson, Devonport, la  2,00
Levi P. Benjamin, Friendship, N.Y  2,00
Luther R. Ames, Worcester, Mass  2,00
Ansel Edwards, New Orleans, La  3,00
Thomas B. Watford, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
J. L., New Jersey  2,00
Mrs. M. A. E, Green, W. Winfield, N.Y. ...... 5,00
Dr. J. S. Loucks, Potsdam, N.Y  . 2,00
Robert Rutherford, Rochester,. N.Y  5,00
From One who Hates Persecution    10,00
J. D. Wheeler, Acton, Mass  2,00
Henry Miller, Sacramento, Cal  10,00
M. A. Britton, Santa Rosa, Cal  2,00
Harvey Lyman, Springfield, Mass  2,00
James S. Draper, Way land..   2,00
Isaac Snow, Boston, Mass   5,00
C. N. Lyme, Philadelphia, Pa     2,00
Mrs. Lavelette   5,00
Sundry persons      16,13
L. Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  2,50
Joseph Willoughby, Manchester, N.H  2,00
W. N. Choate, Jackson Mills, Mich  5,00
E. J. Kempton, New Bedford, Mass  2,00
Granville W. Lukens, Mt. Holly, N.J  2,00
Mrs. G. W. Keene, Lynn, Mass  5,00
Charles Chittenden, Boston, Mass  3.00
F. T. Houghton, San Francisco, Cal  2,00
P. A. Cornell, Central Village, Conn.     2,00
Spiritualists\ Defence Fund continued, dols.
Friends, New Britain, Conn  6,50
Friend of Religious Freedom, Dalton, Pa  2,00
S. Morton, Winslow, N.J  2,00
Lucius Bond, Dalton, N.H  2,00
I. L. Sage, Frankfort, Ky    3,50
A. J. Kenney, Pana, 111    2,00
Mary S. Doty and S. B. Smith, Peru, N.Y. ... 5,00
Geo. Watt, Augusta, 111      2,00
Eben Snow, Cambridge, Mass  2,50
H. H. Ostrom, Alton, N.Y   2,00
Mrs. Sarah Compton, Hyde-park, Pa  3,00
A. A. Wheelock, in behalf of “The Progressive
Society of Spiritualists ” of Utica, N.Y.    30,00
A Lady Friend, Salem, Mass  5,00
Friend, Medfleld, Mass    10,00
J. J. Miller, Millerstown, Mo   2,00
“Heliotrope,” Petaluma, Cal  6,00
W. V. Thompson, Pleasantville, Pa  2,00
F. A. Grove, M.D., Kirksville, Mo...,  2,00
E. Y. Johnson, Warren, R.1  2,00
J. Bisby, Hamilton, Ont.   5,00
Jonathan Hatch, Easton, Me  2,00
Hugh Jones, Erie, Pa.   U    2,00
Addison Kelley, Kelley's Island, Ohio  2,00
Mrs. E. R. Huntington, Kelley’s Island, Ohio 2,00
Hiram Frank, W. Bangor, N.Y....  2,00
I. S. Carter, San Bernardino, Cal »  2,60
A Lady Friend, San Bernardino, Cal  5,00
S. A. Morse, Philadelphia, Pa,  2,00
H.Anderman, New Philadelphia, Ohio   2,00
Thos. Gales Forster, N.Y. City  26,00
Walter Byren    2,00
Nathaniel Esty, E. Westmoreland, N.H  2,00
J. A. Barnes, Olympia, W.T   6,00
Mrs. A. A. Fordtram, Brenham, Tex  2,00
Chas. Livingston ;      5,00
Hannah Ketcham, Laur, 111.   2,00
Sylvester Higgins, Bellevue, Mich  2,00
' Jno. M. Kennedy, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
M. Bamberger, Piedmont, W. Va  2,00
Wm. S. Moore, Norwichville, Ont  2,00
Levi Walker, Belleville, 0  2,00
E. Foster, South Bend, Ind  7,00
Mrs. T. J. Skidmore, Fredonia, N.Y  20,00
Friends, Waverly, N.Y    30,00
M. D. E., Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
J. S. M., „ „   5,00
C. Wilson, Alameda, Cal    10,00
H. J. Howell, Corsioana, Tex.    5,00
Mrs. H. W. H. Brooklyn   5,00
Amos Fales, Carlton, N. B  2,00
John Bowen, Mobile, Ala  5,00
The Spirits controlling the Mary Hollis Circle,
St. Louis, Mo  30,00
Jas. Bell, Oxley, Ont.   2,65
John D. Powers, Woodstock, Vt  2,00
C. H. Faxon, Charlestown, N. Y  2,00
Little Dollie, Galveston, Tex   5,00
Nelson Powell and Wife,Menden Centre, N.Y. 5,00
A Friend, Benecia, Cal    3,00
E. C. Hart, Oberlin, Ohio  2,00
A Stranger to L. C  5,00
No Name, Salem, M!ass. it   2,00
Marcus R. Freeman, New Bedford, Mass  2,00
Winslow J. Howard, Prescott, Arizona   SJOO
Cyrus Peabody, Warren, R. L     5,00
Jacob Peter, Jeffersonville, Ind  2,35
Daniel Gould, Davenport, Iowa  2,00
H. J. C., Bloemsburg, Pa   2,00
Sums under two dols. (413 subs.)   375,95
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations^ but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ’’ Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
