AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 125.—(Vol. VI.—No. 8.) LONDON: JANUARY 15, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontents,
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. Another Baby Medium   25
The Numerical Strength of Spiritualists.   26
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—
Correspondence—New Members—The Finance /Committee’s Re¬
port—Public Offices for the National Association—Prize Essays—
Monthly Soirees—The Lunacy Laws     26
The Spirit and the Body       27
Mr. Serjeant Cox and tbe Spirits   28
Materialisations in Austria. By the Baroness Adelina Vay   30
A Test Seance at Brighton. By J. N. Tiedeman Martheze   30.
Correspondence:—M. Sardou’s Plays—Internal Respiration, No. 3—A
Seance with Mies Lottie Fowler—The Organisation of Brixton
Spiritualists—Spiritualism in Holland    ... 31
Poetry. A Scotch Poem on Spiritual Manifestations  35
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor    36
Answers to Correspondents  '  36
Paragraphs:—Mrs. Tappan’s Lectures, 29; Passed to Spirit Life, 35;
Shakers’ Aid Fund, 35; Mesmeric Phenomena in Lausanne, 35;
Spiritualism in Darlington, 36; Spiritualism in Brighton, 36; Soiree
at Goswell Hall      36
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists Is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied; are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8; Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 26 Viet, cap. 89 )
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.-
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
If preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray,, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., C. N. C.. Hutton, Esq., J.P.. Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq, Alderman, M. E. Marsden, Es i R B Martin, Esq., M.A.,
F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J. C.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter jGray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidsofi and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
“ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow-
■ ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
£
1000
500
250
100
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
£ s. d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
£ s.d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
£ s.d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
Paymt
within
Two Yrs
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
1 A.” Death only.
1000
500
110
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
‘B.” Weekly Allow- ... 6 0 0 1 10 0 2 2 0 1 2 6 1 2 6
ance only. ...' 3 0 0 0 18 0 1 3 0 0 12 6 0 12 6
Forms, Prospectuses, and further particulars on application to
MR. THOMAS BLYTOiN,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
LE MESS AUER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue ; de la Cath€drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.   .  
"O EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
XU fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, R,ue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M Leymarie.   
FPARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings d la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. ’The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sittius Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortlmer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
Alexander Calder, Esq., The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands Wimbledon Common,
S.W;; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s-
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4id. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale a t
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1875
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office -Beakers foe 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-gtreet, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. Gt. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. B. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Biece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection yith Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public Instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Booms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 6s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Buies on application to the Secretary at the Booms as above.
ALFEED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GKEENE, Hon. Secretary.
N.B.—Special arrangements are made for the last Thursday evening
In each month.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUEES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
or Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
hooks on kindred subjects in stock.
Becently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PBOGBESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PBOFESSOB ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLEE, AND STATIONEB,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
toodern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
TJie Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Bich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Tnree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
Now ready, price Sixpence,
THR DAY OF PENTECOST AND ITS PHENOMENA.
A Sermon-Lecture by Frederic Bowland Young, Minister of the
Christian Church, New Swindon, and formerly Editor of the
Wwitttan Spiritualist. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STEEET, BAKEE-STEEET, W.
nnWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
JL and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BL ANDFOBD-STEEET, BAKEE-STEEET, W.
ECTURES by the following gentleman will be delivered
k at above address as follows:—
On Wednesday, January 13th, Mr. Joseph Cartwright will deliver a
lecture entitled, “ Spiritualism, and the Bev. J. May of Saltash.”
On Wednesday, January 20th, Mr. Joseph Freeman will deliver a lecture
entitled, “Utility of Spiritualism.”
On Wednesday, January 27th, Mr. C. W. Pearce Will deliver a lecture
entitled,
On Wednesday, February 3rd, Mr. James Burns, of 15, Southampton-row,
Holborn, W.C., will deliver a lecture entitled, “Spiritual and Progressive
Thought in the Writings of Robert Bums,” illustrated by readings of his
poetry in the Scottish Dialect.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
TVeoswrer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—64, BEBNEES STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
Edited by WILLIAM CROOKES, F.E.S., &c.
, No. XLV., January, 1875, price 5s.
Contents.
I. The Illuminated Disc of the Moon.
II. Railway Accidents.
III. Human Levitation; illustrating certain Historical Miracles.
IV. The Boundary between Man and the Lower Animals,
V. Science—Her Claims, Position, and Duties.
VI. The Spectroscope in its Application to Mint Assaying.
London: 3, Horse Shoe-court, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
  London :—Simpkin, Marshail & Co. 
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BAEKA8),
N ewcastle-on-^yne.
JL X$mb ij{[ i\t Jrugrm d| l\t nv&
VOLUJVIE ^IX. J^UJVIBE^ THF(EE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY IBth, 187B.
3pnimlhi
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Eeduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous "Wednesday morning. All
orders, for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allep, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.'—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
rflEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of tjie Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all partienlars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
ANOTHER BABY MEDIUM.J
The Society for the Continuation of the Labours of
Allan Kardec has sent an agent to New York in the
person of M. Agramonte, who will “ personally observe
and report the current facts of Spiritualism, and com¬
municate to the Revue Spirite the latest news respecting
the progress of the Spiritual Reformation” in that
country. M. Agramonte has been received by the editor
of Brittan’s Journal, who says, “ France has the honour
of initiating this enterprise, and has set us a worthy
example. Shall we not follow, and do what we can to
establish more intimate relations and a systematic inter¬
national intercourse ? ” Let us hope that the National
Association, which has already its representatives in all
parts of the civilised world, may likewise soon have its
special reporters, whose accounts will he copied with
avidity into, the leading political journals of the day.
The spirit photograph for the month of January is a
portrait of Madame Kardec, with the recognisable face
and form of the “ maitre ” holding in his hands a paper
on which are distinctly legible the words, “ Chere femme,
veille sur notre medium, Buguet; de faux spirites le
tracassent en ce moment. Lui seul est le vrai. C’est
surtout lui qui fera progresser notre doctrine. Leymarie
doit 1’aider. Je suis avec vous. Courage et adieu.—
Allan Kardec.”
In Italy Baron Kirkup has instituted a regular post
between his house and the spirit world. A triple knock
on the wall announces the arrival of a letter, which
Baron Kirkup then finds in a secret box behind one of
the pictures in his room. In this he places his answer,
which vanishes in due course. Four spirits conduct the
correspondence, named Regina, Annina, Isacco, and
Dante, and the Baron has at least one hundred of their
letters. Some months since Baron Kirkup became a
grandfather, and the spirits wished to give a proof of
their power by writing through the mediumship of the k
infant. Accordingly, when it was nine days old, the
mother seated herself with the child in the Baron’s room,
in the presence of six witnesses. In an instant the
baby was seen to have a long ivory pencil (previously
concealed in the room) in its hand, which it held like a
dagger while it wrote the four letters R. A. I. D., the
initials of the four literary spirits. The pencil fell from
the child’s hand, but was again placed there by the in¬
visibles, when the following message was written:—
“ Non mutare questa e buona prova fue cosa ti abbiamo
detto. Addio. (Do not change; this is a good test, it
is what we promised you. Adieu.) The account is
dated and signed by the six witnesses, as well as by
Baron Kirkup.
The Baron du Potet, President of the Magnetic Society
of Paris, is about to publish another edition of his
work, la Magie. The title of * M. du Potet’s last work
is La Therapeutigue Magnetique.
26
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1875.
THE NUMERICAL STRENGTH OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Me. Martin Smith struck the key-note of a fruitful
question when he stated his opinion that great exaggera¬
tions were afloat as to the dimensions of the spiritual
movement. Thousands upon thousands of Spiritualists
are vaguely talked about, sometimes even as being pre¬
sent at provincial meetings, yet probably no provincial
town in this country can yet boast of having a thousand
Spiritualists within its limits, and, if Liverpool he
excepted, not one of them can claim to have five hun¬
dred. The chief local societies of Spiritualists in this
country are those at Liverpool, Dalston, Edinburgh,
Glasgow, and Newcastle, yet it is much within the true
limits to say that they average less than one hundred
members each, probably sixty or seventy. The number
of members of the three local London societies- is less
still. In provincial towns large numbers of people
sometimes attend, good lectures on Spiritualism out of
curiosity, and prejudice against it is thereby lessened,
but converts are not made very rapidly. There are
plenty of Spiritualists who are not members of local
societies, especially in London, where the more educated
members of our body do not appear to have begun to
band together to any great extent until the National
Association was founded.
Spiritualism tends to spread rapidly in particular
localities. Working men and women in warm-hearted
Yorkshire have given it a special welcome; in money¬
making Manchester it is almost a dead letter, but in
Liverpool it thrives. It shrinks from the western
counties of England, and the Irish mind does not seem
to accept it readily. The total number of Spiritualists
throughout this country, including men, women, and
children, is probably under fifteen thousand; we make
this guess—and it is but a guess—after visiting most
of the localities in which Spiritualism most flourishes,
and making careful inquiries. Except at some of the
places already named, most of the local societies are
weak, and have a precarious existence.
The alleged eleven millions of Spiritualists in the
United States have been shorn of their gigantic propor¬
tions by Mr. William Tebb, who travelled the States,
and instead of finding one person out of every three of
all ages to be a Spiritualist, he tried in town after town
to ascertain the name and address of any local Spirit¬
ualist, or the local place of meeting of Spiritualists, but
found in many cases that the general public could not
give him any information on these points, and in places
containing thousands of inhabitants the opinion was
sometimes expressed that there were no Spiritualists
within its boundaries. He found the movement not to
have that influence in the United States which people
in England generally suppose it to possess.
In Boston Spiritualists are numerous, chiefly artisans
and working people, and in a band of territory beginning
at Boston, New York, and Philadelphia on the east, and
extending westwards to Chicago and the district south
of the great lakes, Spiritualists are also numerous, but
in the average of the vast area of the United States
south of this band the spiritual movement flourishes
much ' less vigorously. It is spreading fairly in
California.
Mr. Tebb, after travelling in search of the informa¬
tion, estimates the number of Spiritualists in the States
at much under a million, allowing an enormously large
margin to include the Nicodemus’s. He is probably not
far from right. If there are a million Spiritualists in
the United States, or, in other words, if one person
out of every twenty-five throughout the country is a
Spiritualist openly or privately, the movement must be
strong there indeed.
Erroneous information on any subject tends to do
harm, and it is only by knowing in what position
Spiritualism really is that we, as a body, can accurately
estimate what work lies before us to execute in the
future.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OE THE COUNCIL.
Last Monday night a meeting of the Council of the British
National Association of Spiritualists was held at Lawson’s
Booms, Gower-street, London, under the presidency of Mr.
Alexander Calder. There were also present Mr. J. M. Gully,
M.D., Mr. E. Dawson Bogers, Miss Emily Kislinghury, Mir.
Keningale Cook, B.A., Mr. George King, Mrs. T. Everitt, Mr.
Edward T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, Mr. Morell Theobald,
Mr. Joseph Freeman, and Mr. Began.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Miss Kislinghury, one of the hon. secretaries, then read
various letters addressed to the Association.
Mr. Began, of London, and Mr. Gale, of Hull, each wrote
accepting a seat on the Council of the Association.
Mr. Biko wrote from the Hague enclosing his photograph,
and expressing the opinion that the charges made by a few
persons on the Continent against Messrs. Bastian and Taylor
were unjustifiable.
Captain Hudson wrote from Swansea suggesting that all
the members of the Association should be invited to send
their photographic likenesses to the Council for exhibition in
its offices and at its social meetings.
Barboo Pearychand Mittra wrote from Calcutta, expressing
his satisfaction at the theological clause having been struck
out of the prospectus of the Association.
Letters from Mr. Algernon Joy and Mr. Christian Eeimers,
on matters connected with the routine business of the Asso¬
ciation, were also read.*
NEW MEMBERS.
The following new members were unanimously elected :—
Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy, Mr. Charles Hunt, Mrs. Hunt, Mr. J. T.
Dodd, Mr. E. Gregory, Mr. James5Bennetto, Mr. W. L. Caney,
Mr. S. A. Grogan, Mr. George Blyton, Mr. Tod, Mr. F. M.
Parkes, Mrs. Parkes, Miss Lottie Fowler, Mr. J. T. Markley,
and Mr. T. H. Griffin.
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York, Leon F. Clavairoz
(Consul at Trieste), and Mr. and Mrs. J.' Murray Spear,
of Philadelphia, were invited to become honorary members.
There were no resignations.
THE FINANCE COMMITTEE’S REPORT.
Mr. Morell Theobald presented the following account of the
receipts and expenditure of the Association from its com¬
mencement to the end of 1874. The expenses incidental to
the formation of the organisation form an important item in
the account.
From October, 1873, to December 31si, 1874.
Dr. £ s. d.
To Subscriptions        190 7 0
„ Donations     18 19 7
Total     £209 6 7
Or.
By Donations made by] Council to—Mr. Oogman; Marylebone
Institution; Newcastle; Sowerby-bridge 
„ Expense's of public meetings at Edward-street, Soiree, Confe¬
rence, &c         
„ Salaries (mem. six weeks salary now due to Mr. Haxby)  
„ Stationery and Printing £54 12 11
„ Advertising      19 13 7
„ Postages   .......: i... 1213 6
„ Hiring rooms for Council meetings...  10 17 0
„ Sundry charges and travelling expenses  ;  3 17 5
„ Cash in hand   12 4 1
„ Less due to Mr. Haxby, in petty cash, &c  0 4 1
£ s. d.
9 4 0
44 S 8
41 19 6
101 14 5
12 0 0
Total   S £209 6 7
Audited and found correct, January 8, 1875,
Alex. Calder. Martin R. Smith.
Morell Theobald. George King.
Jan. 15, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
Mr. Haxby, Assistant Secretary, announced that he had
received £38 11s. of the subscriptions for the year 1875.,
On the motion of Mr. George King, the bye-laws which had
been virtually passed at a meeting of the Council some months
ago, were adopted, one slight alteration only being made.
PUBLIC OFFICES FOR THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. E. T. Bennett said that the Committee had advertised
for a small hall or offices and had had several replies, but
after examining several places had not yet found janything
which they could recommend to the Council as suitable.
Miss Kislingbury said that the Soho Square Booms would
hold three hundred people, and could be had for £120 a year;
it was a handsome place inside, but wanted painting and
doing up. One objection perhaps was that it was over the
Hospital for Diseases of the Heart. The hospital had only
five patients on the premises; the others were out-patients.
The Committee would do well to see the'place.
Mr. Morell Theobald thought it would be of great import¬
ance to get offices quietly, at which an officer of the Associa¬
tion should always be present. A few rooms at £50 a year
would do temporarily.
Mr. Bennett agreed with Mr. Theobald, but would like to
hear from the Council whether it desired the Offices Committee
to seek for a few rooms or a small hall.
The Chairman said that the Association would never be
content until it had a striking abode of its .own, and he
thought that a special Committee should be appointed to un¬
dertake the building of such premises; he would subscribe a
few hundred pounds towards such a building. (Applause).
Whatever was done at the present moment should be but of a
temporary nature, and the aim should be- to erect a public
building, at an expense of say £5,000 at a future time. During
the day the hall might be used for other purposes, perhaps as
a school for the children of Spiritualists ; at all events several
objects might be combined. What he meant was, that he
would invest a few hundred pounds in taking shares, if a public
company were formed to build a hall for Spiritualists.
Mr. Began liked this plan exceedingly.
Dr. Gully thought it to be a good one, too, but hoped that
small offices would be taken in the meantime, as Mr. Theobald
had suggested.
Mr. Began moved that the committee be instructed to search
for rooms suitable for offices, at an expense of about £60 a
year, and to report thereon to the Council.
Mr. George King suggested that the expense of the whole
time of an officer need not be incurred, if the rooms were let rent
free during the day to some Spiritualist who wanted offices,
and would undertake to receive letters and to answer the
questions of callers relative to the Association.
Dr. Gully said that the rooms would not then be the bona
fide offices of the National Association ; besides, what profes¬
sional man would like to have “ The National Association of
Spiritualists ” painted on the door-post of his place of
business ?
Miss Kislingbury then read the following letter from Mr.
Dawe:—
Mv dear Miss Kislingbury,—I regret my not being able to be present
at the meeting to-night, the more so as I believe there is some intention of
the question of offices or rooms to be decided, 10 form, as you term it, a
“ home of our own,” which “ home” should comprise, above all things, a
hall or room sufficiently large to hold our week and Sunday evening meet¬
ings, or at least as large as the Cavendish Booms. "We could let it
when not required for our Own use. This “ hall" question is, I think, of
the utmost importance to us, and to the movement. Without this I
think all other questions of rooms are premature, and we should spend
our money with but poor return, at least so it seems to me.
8, Marlborough-road, Monday, Jan. 11. N. FABYAN Dawe.
Dr. Gully seconded Mr. Began’s proposal, which was then
unanimously adopted.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
Dr. Gully then read a letter he had received, which set
forth that the writer had read in The Spiritualist Mr. Martin
Smith’s proposal about giving gold medals for prize essays ;
he thought the idea a good one, and was willing to subscribe
£25 or £30 towards the same object. He thought that a prize
of £100 should have been offered, to bring forth something
which should have a greater effect on the public. He
had not had much experience in the subject, so did not wish
his name to be connected with the gift; he preferred to be
known as “ A friend in Scotland.” (Applause.)
Miss Kislingbury read a letter from Mr. Martin B. Smith,
who said that it had been suggested to him that the winning
competitor might prefer money instead of amedal; it was for the
Council to decide which course should be adopted. Spiritual¬
ism was so progressive that a great work would be quickly out
of date, which was an objection to the offering of such a large
prize as £100.
Messrs. Bogers, Cook, King, and Gully thought it would be
a good plan to leave it to the option of the winner whether
he would take the money or a medal.
This plan was therefore adopted, and the Council requested
the Essay Committee to consider the question of giving a
second prize, for the next best essay.
On the motion of the Chairman, seconded by Mr. Morell
Theobald, the contributor of the additional amount was
thanked through Dr. Gully for his handsome donation.
MONTHLY SOIREES.
Miss Kislingbury announced that the last soiree had yielded
a profit of £1 8s. The next one would be held in the Caven¬
dish Booms on Wednesday, the 3rd of February, and it was
proposed to hold them afterwards on the first Wednesday in
every month.
THE LUNACY-LAWS.
A letter from Mrs. Lowe was read asking the Council to work
more with the Lunacy Law Beform Association; the Council
decided that while sympathising with Mrs. Lowe, it was not in
a position to take up the matter at present.
Dr. Gully remarked that several members of the National
Association of Spiritualists were also members of Mrs. Lowe’s
committee, so that showed sympathy.
The proceedings then closed.
THE SPIRIT AND THE BODY.*
We will try to describe the way in which we write through
your hand. In the first place you appear to us like a double
man. We see the body as a transparent being sitting in a
shadowy chair and surrounded by shadowy papers and
furniture, &c., but there is a spiritual counterpart of the
body and the furniture which is solid to our senses.
This counterpart appears to be attached as regards the
body by 'a spiritual tie like a silver thread. The spiritual
counterpart of the furniture conceals from our eyes the
material counterpart, but the spiritual counterpart is no im¬
pediment to our movements, for we can displace it at will just
the same as you can open the door, or break a hole in the
window. We can replace things so moved quite as readily, but
we do not like to injure things that do not belong to us, if we
can help it, and therefore we prefer to go out by the door in¬
stead of through the window. We will explain what puzzles
you. We say we do not like to injure what does not belong
to us, and you cannot understand how there can be any injury
to your property by anything we can do. That is quite true,
but the spiritual counterpart of your wall is a protection to
you against the intrusion of evil spirits, who are more limited
in their power of locomotion than we are. We do not intend you
to believe that evil spirits cannot intrude on you in your room
but they would be less likely to do so if there were a wall to
protect you than otherwise.
We were trying to explain how we control you. We take
hold of the spiritual counterpart of your hand and write with
if first as if it were a material hand; in fact, you appear to us
like a man who is blind and dumb, for you cannot see us, nor
can you hear us speaking to you, though when you are
passive we can talk to you, and you think it is your own
imagination. This dumb and blind man is influenced by
spirits in many of his actions in life, and will be all the
better when he is able to appreciate this fact. You do not
quite understand how the spirit and body work together.
The body is like a machine, which the spirit keeps in order
and controls. The spirit sees and feels through the body, and
is under the delusion that it is the body; in fact it ignores
the spirit altogether, much to the astonishment of spirits who
happen to overhear the conversation that sometimes takes
place between people in the body. We can hear all that the
spirit gives utterance to through the body, and a good deal
that it does not utter through the body, for the spirits hear as
words spoken all that the embodied spirits give silent utter¬
ance to, and if they are on the same plane they can read their
thoughts also. Yes, you may well say, “ How very disagree¬
able!” The thoughts and unuttered speeches of people in
the flesh, even of the best men and women, are not subjects
that their spirit friends care to listen to, and therefore we
don’t like to be in the company of people in the body, for
we are unable to pick our company as we can in the spirit
* This communication was written through the hand of a gentleman,
known to us, who says he has been recently developed into a writing
medium by Mrs. Catherine Woodforde.—£d.
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1875.
world, you see. It is often very unpleasant to have to
listen to the remarks that friends and relatives and
strangers make about one another, and the vile, wicked
things men think about, It is quite refreshing to meet
a pure-minded man. We know, however, that even pure-
minded men cannot always help evil thoughts coming into
their heads, but they should trample on them and then they
would be less likely to occur again. We have given you a
picture of the way in which we control you. Another time
we will explain a little more that goes on behind the
scenes.
MR. SERJEANT COX AND THE SPIRITS.
W-E have received the following letter from Mr.
Serjeant Cox:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sib,—The astounding admission, by Mr. Dale Owen, that
he had been imposed upon by the Holmeses and their Katie
King, following so speedily upon the heels of his detailed
description of the “ materialisations ” he had witnessed,
accompanied' by the most solemn assurances that every pos¬
sible care had been taken by himself to preclude imposture,
that trickery was impossible, and that he was as confident of
the genuineness of Katie as of his own existence, for he had seen
her more than fifty times, is a fact so fraught with lessons of
value to investigators, that it should not be permitted to pass
without commentary.
Not many months have elapsed since it became my duty to
set forth in your pages the many reasons why these alleged
“ materialisations” should be received with the utmost suspi¬
cion, and should not be accepted as proved save upon the very
best evidence possible to be obtained. I need not repeat the
suggestions I then made for the application of some simple
but conclusive tests, and the endeavours to impress upon
those who gave to the world their assurances of this most
wonderful fact the duty incumbent upon them to publish no
statements not based upon what in law is called “ the best
evidence.” This phrase means that inferior proof is never to
be accepted when better proof is to be had. If, for instance, a
witness were to say, “ I saw the spirit and the medium toge¬
ther in a dim light behind a curtain,” or, “ I saw the medium
behind the curtain when the spirit was before it,” such evi¬
dence would be held to be insufficient, if by merely pulling up
the curtain all present could have seen the two together, or if,
by carrying a candle behind the curtain, the medium could
have been seen in full light, instead of a dim and doubtful
light. So an. imperfect test would be rejected if a perfect one
could have been tried—as, for instance, complicated tying
when a word written with red ink upon the forehead would
place identity beyond question.
Again, I remarked that in scientific questions there ought to
be no such thing as “ confidence.” An experiment on which
a conclusion of incalculable importance is to be founded, should
be so tried as to be proved to the senses of the investigators,
without trusting in anything to the veracity of others, and
faith ought not even to be asked for in such inquiries.
If Mr. Dale Owen and Dr. Slade had observed these reason¬
able rules of scientific research, they would have been spared
the humiliating confession they have now made. I certainly
gathered from the article by Mr. Owen in your pages, describ¬
ing so minutely these phenomena, that he had duly examined,
and that he pledged himself to the extremest caution with which
that examination had been made. What does he mean now,
when, in his confession (which appears in full in The Banner
of Light), he talks of misplaced “confidence”? Why did he
represent to the world that he had tried and tested, if, as now
he states, there was something which he did not try and test,
but accepted upon faith alone ?
The statement in the American papers is that the American
Katie King was a girl who was detected by a more vigi¬
lant eye, followed to her home, and there confessed the fraud,
and how it was contrived, and exhibited her disguises.
She must have been detected instantly if Mr. Owen had
used the most ordinary care. Had he but grasped her—
walked into the cabinet while she was out of it—squirted some
scent or some colouring matter into her face—stationed an
observer behind the cabinet—in fact, tried fifty other tests
equally easy and conclusive (and objection to which should
have raised instant suspicion of intended fraud), this impu¬
dent imposture must have been at once exploded without a
catastrophe that cannot but throw suspicion upon all evidence
of like phenomena.
But what means the assertion of Mr. Owen that he saw
“ the spirit,” who isTnow proved to be a solid girl, melt away
and re-form ? Was this pure imagination on his part ?
The best service Mr. Owen can now render is to sift
the fraud to the bottom, and publish, for the protection of
others, full particulars of the contrivances by which it was
effected, and by what omissions on his part it was that he was
so deceived. It will be at least a wholesome lesson for the
future, and prevent the publication of reports of phenomena
which have not been established by conclusive tests. If this
good result should follow, science will ultimately profit by
this ridiculous fiasco. Edwaed W. Cox.
36, Russell-square, 4th Jan., 1875.
Many of the phenomena of Spiritualism take place
in darkness, probably partly because the nerves of the
media are for the- time being in a highly sensitive
state, such as is sometimes the case with persons in
illness, hut in the former instances in a more exalted
degree; some of the phenomena themselves also are
favoured by more or less darkness, which is why, when
Messrs. Crookes, Cox, and Huggins contrived a basket
in which an accordion was to be made to play by itself
through Mr. Home’s mediumship, they were obliged to
place the whole arrangement under a table—a most
unscientific thing to do in the opinion of the unin¬
formed.
Eor years materialised spirit hands have been pro¬
duced at seances, and have often been found to be
duplicates of those of the mediums ; they have usually
been first formed under a table,under a cloth, in a cabinet,
or somewhere where the light was subdued. Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox appears to be aware of the reality of some
of these facts, if the following quotation from a
pamphlet by Mr. James Gillingham, of Chard, entitled
Eight Days with the Spiritualists (Pitman), may be
trusted:—
“ Mr. Serjeant Cox told me that he had had many seances
with Mr. Home at his own private house, and that all the
manifestations were in the light, and with no possibility of
trickery.” Mr. Cox is further reported to have said : “If Mr.
Home was sitting at one end of the table, and I at the other,
whatever I asked for was brought to me by invisible power.
A hand-bell was taken up from the table, and rung by unseen
power. I requested the bell should be brought to me. It was
placed in my hands, and as I took the bell I felt the fingers on
a natural hand, although I could not see them. I requested
that my pocket-book should be taken from my pockets ; while
the pocket-book was being drawn out I seized the hand that was
taking it away by the wrist. The hand and wrist felt as
natural as the natural member, though I could not see it.”
As time went on, beads and full forms began to be
similarly developed, in cabinets or in darkness, tbe in¬
telligence at work also declaring tbat if any roughs or
others played tricks at seances by seizing these forms,
or in certain other ways interfering with the power,
the death of the medium would probably be the result.
The spirits kindly gave facilities to Messrs. Yarley,
Crookes, and other intelligent educated persons to test
the truth of their statements about materialisation, and
by electrical and other experiments it has been clearly
demonstrated that in certain cases while the materialised
spirit form has been outside the cabinetj the body of
the medium has been inside; on several occasions re¬
spectable people have seen the two together, not per¬
haps as yet under a very strong light or the most de¬
sirable conditions, but in such a way as to show that
the power of demonstrating the fact is developing and
increasing.
Mr. Serjeant Cox urges those who can get invita¬
tions to witness the manifestations, to squirt ink over
the forms, to break open the cabinet, or to commit some
act repugnant alike to humanity, good taste, and the.
Jan. 15, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.
29
rites of hospitality. In those cases where the two
forms have been demonstrated to have had a temporary
independent existence, it is only reasonable to suppose
that their sudden union in consequence of an act of
violence would endanger life. His suggestion that ink
should be squirted over the forms by guests is not likely
to be carried out by any gentleman, but there is no
reason why the spirits and the mediums—who so far as
we have seen desire only truth—should not invite
experiments with colouring matter to be tried to throw
light on the nature of the phenomena. The Banner of
Light some years ago (about the time of Mrs.
Hardinge’s last visit to England) published how a
gentleman tried experiments of this kind with a boy
who obtained spirit hands, and the various colouring
matters were found sometimes on the boy’s hands,
sometimes on other parts of his body. It is only natural
that in approximate duplication of form, any colouring
matter on the duplicate hand should be found on the
primary hand when the two unite, so the experiment
instead of settling the question of duplication would be
utterly worthless for that purpose.
Mr. Cox says in paragraph six of his letter, that
any objection to grasping a spirit u should have raised
instant suspicion of intended fraud,” and this notwith¬
standing that his friend Mr. Crookes has had every
facility for testing the phenomena, and has certified they
are real. Mr. Serjeant Cox publishes in his last book
that he has seen a very heavy table moving up and
down in his own , house in the presence of a medium,
and in a way which set the laws of gravitation at de¬
fiance. If the Royal Society demands of him to show
this in public—which he cannot do—the society would
have as much right to conceive “ instant suspicion of
intended fraud” if Serjeant Cox refuses this and
“ fifty other tests equally easy and conclusive,” as he
has to impose his own conditions, and to state results
about phenomena with which he is unacquainted.
The word “physics” and the word “ science” are
sometimes used as convertible terms, causing confusion
of mind, as in Mr. Shorter’s last article in the Spiritual
Magazine, and in the sentence in Mr. Serjeant Cox’s
letter—“ In scientific questions there ought to be no
such thing as confidence.” In pure physics perhaps
not, but in science, which means merely “ accurate
knowledge,” and applies to things mental as well as
physics, emphatically there ought to be such a thing
as confidence, and in reality there is. In Spiritualism
physical demonstrations are largely made subservient to
mental conditions, so that people who do not cheat each
other, or believe each other to be knaves or dupes, receive
physical evidence from which persons of a contrary nature
are more or less shut out, and this very fact makes it
the truest religion on the face of the earth. If the
phenomena could be separated from mental and spiritual
conditions, the religious character of the movement
would be destroyed, “ psychic force might perhaps no
longer break down as an explanation of the facts, but
as the matter stands in reality Spiritualism is a special
revelation to special people, and fortunately cannot be
degraded to the level of mere physics.
The cases of the Holmes’s imposture, and genuine
materialisations, like those described by Mr. Serjeant
Cox to Mr. Gillingham, are not parallel, and the
following extract from the Banner of Light of Dec.
26th shows why:—
Long before the American “ Katie King ” made her appear¬
ance, the Holmeses had been referred to in the London
Spiritualist as having forfeited the confidence of the English
public, though it was not denied that they were mediums.
One or both of them had been charged with trickery in this
country. Many Spiritualists, knowing their history, have
from the first withheld all confidence in their recent supposed
manifestations, notwithstanding the strong testimony in their
support. It was a Spiritualist who finally discovered the trick
that is charged on them.
Fortunately English Spiritualists have been rather distrust¬
ful from the first in regard to the Philadelphia Katie. Mr.
Crookes has repeatedly denounced her [pretended photograph
as a transparent fraud, and he has had no faith in the genuine¬
ness of the manifestations. Mr. Harrison, of the London
Spiritualist, has been equally incredulous, and notwithstand¬
ing Mr. Owen’s high reputation among English Spiritualists,
they do not seem to have been impressed by his testimony in
this case.
Only by comparing the Philadelphia investigations with the
London can we realise the utter incompleteness and insuf¬
ficiency of the former. The Holmeses had everything their
own way, in spite of the “ facilities afforded him for the
strictest scrutiny” of which Mr. Owen speaks. They had
their own house, their own rooms, their own unchanged
corner of the room, with that questionable partition behind it,
and their own cabinet. In the phenomena through Miss Cook
in London, extending over a period of two years, she was
sometimes at her father’s house, sometimes at Mr. Luxmoore’s,
and sometimes at Mr. Crookes’s. Mr. Luxmoore was a gentle¬
man of wealth, a justice of the peace, and a well-known in¬
vestigator ; and, as most of the phenomena were at his house,
the cabinet and the conditions were immediately under his
own eyes and those of the highly intelligent parties present at
the seances; for Miss Cook had been placed above all mer¬
cenary temptations through the wise liberality of Mr. Charles
Blackburn, and no admission fees were asked. At Mr. Crookes’s
house, the medium would come alone, with nothing but a
little hand-bag, and stay there a week at a time, immediately
under the eyes of Mrs. Crookes, and sharing with a member
of the family her bed-room. The conditions were always such
as to rule out the possibility of a confederate ; and the ques¬
tion was narrowed down to this : Does Miss Cook herself per¬
sonate the spirit ? This was at length definitely settled by
the electrical tests of Messrs. Varley and Crookes, and by Mr.
Crookes and others having repeated opportunities to see the
two together, and satisfy themselves of their distinct per¬
sonalities, of the objective reality of the spirit, and its instan¬
taneous disappearance with that of the drapery in which it
• was clothed.
In homes to which the investigator is invited by his
own desire as a matter of grace and favour, where little
interest is felt in his opinions or those of the public,
where also imposture on the part of the visitors is
believed by honourable and scientifically educated
persons to be very probably a matter of life and death
to the mediums, Serjeant Cox’s advice will grate upon
the consciousness of the readers, much as would words
upon the mind of a sincere believer in the efficacy of
public prayer who heard a man “ egging on” a juvenile
Grimaldi to sing “ Hot Codlins” in a church in the
middle of public service.
Mr. Serjeant Cox will fail in attempting to reduce
Spiritualism to mechanics, and the day will never come
when religious scientific truth can be made subservient
to physics, or forged to order by a blacksmith; but those
who, by self-reformation, work for and receive Spiritual
truth, will obtain physical demonstration as fast as it
is required.
Mrs. Tappan’s Lectures.—A new series of twelve
lectures by Mrs. Tappan will commence next Sunday evening,
at the Cavendish Rooms, when Dr. Gully will take the chair.
The subject of the first lecture of the series will be the
“ Origin, of the Soul.” The whole course will deal with ques¬
tions on the spiritual nature of man. It is hoped that
Spiritualists will show interest in attending these lectures,
especially as the weather is improving, and the Committee
ought to be well supported in their good work. We hope to
publish next week portions of a lecture delivered by Mrs.
Tappan in Birmingham.
30
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 15, 1875.
MATERIALISATIONS IN AUSTRIA.
BY THE BAEONESS ABELMA YAY.
We have just been having at our house at Gonobitz,
some very promising beginnings in the way of material¬
isations, a brief report of which may not he without
interest to the readers of The Spiritualist. Mrs. Pucher,
the medium through whom the manifestations occurred,
was for many years a resident in this place, whence, a
short time since, on the death of her husba-nd she
removed to Gratz.
A year ago she began sitting with me regularly, for
development. We continued our sittings for six months,
by which time the raps came promptly and constantly
at every sitting, responding intelligently and satis¬
factorily to our queries, and giving the name of
“ Constanz % as the attendant spirit of Mrs. Pucher, by
whose invisible agency they were produced. On the
occasion of a brief return of Mrs. Pucher to Gonobitz,
a week or two since, my guides wrote that “ under
proper conditions materialisations would now take place
in her presence.” We accordingly arranged for the
experiment.
The space between the two doors of a double parti¬
tion was made to do temporary duty as a cabinet. The
medium took her seat in the narrow interval, the inner
door being tightly closed, while the outer one was left
open a few inches. The lamp was then removed from
the room and so placed that only a faint light was
permitted to enter. Yery soon luminous moving
patches began to appear at and beyond the edge of the
door left ajar. These came and went several times,
taking more distinctly at each reappearance the
shadowy outline of hands, which seemed as if beckoning
to us. Meantime the medium was quite unconscious of
what was taking place, having fallen into a trance sleep
almost immediately on being left in her rather close
quarters. At last after the spectral hands had been
distinctly and repeatedly seen by all present, suddenly
Mrs. Pucher pushed open the door and came out quite
bewildered, saying that she had been thrust from her
chair; and with this unceremonious exit the first
experiment closed. Gratified by the result, we con¬
tinued the trial during the remainder of Mrs. Pucher’s
stay, which allowed us four more sittings.
The second evening a hand appeared farther beyond
the opening, and the outline of an arm was quite
distinctly added. The effect was repeated a num¬
ber of times, each appearance continuing about the
fourth of a minute, the movements seeming as if
directed by an unseen intelligence. The medium was
again quite unconscious during the manifestations.
The third evening quite a large luminous patch
appeared for several seconds towards the top of the
opening, but did not seem to assume any recognisable
shape. Afterwards a darker tall form stood for a few
seconds in the opening, but did not come out.
The next evening, after the moving lights and hands
had been again repeatedly visible, suddenly a hand and
arm came forth, quite luminous, and then another hand
a little behind the first, and in a moment or two more
a form, materialised from the knees upwards, stood
out beyond the opening so’ distinct, that, before I said
anything, a lady near me grasped my hand exclaiming,
“ Ein Neger.” The light from the luminous hands
seemed thrown upon the face to bring it more distinctly
into view; and the turban and the Moorish costume of
the figure were no less distinct and characteristic. The
startling apparition continued, probably, fifteen or
twenty seconds, and then was gone. Through a
written communication the same evening, it reported
itself as “ Constanz,” the medium’s attendant spirit;
and, in a subsequent communication, he told us that he
had been a Moorish slave in the service of a Hungarian
nobleman, had embraced Christianity, and had received
at his baptism the name by which he now announced
himself.
After the disappearance of the Moor, the dark form
(apparently) of the preceding evening, reappeared, and
soon broke the outline of a female figure in the attire
of a nun, who, the spirits afterwards wrote, was a
certain “Madelein,” whose name had been spelled out
by the raps an evening or two before, as a spirit present,
for whom our prayers were asked. On coming out of
the cabinet this evening the medium observed that we
had had nothing this time. Each evening, after taking
her place, she was noticed to cough a few times, and
then to pass into complete unconsciousness, on rousing
from which she always hurriedly pushed open the door
and re-entered the room. The last evening we had
nothing but the moving lights again, one of which,
near the close, took the form of a star and lingered
with a soft, beautiful radiance, nearly half a minute.
All these manifestations were witnessed by Miss
Louisa Mostin and Miss Mary Treffer of Gratz, and a
gentleman from America, as well as by myself and my
husband. AdelmaVay.
Gonobitz, Austria.
A TEST SEANCE AT BRIGHTON.
BY J. X. TIEDEMAN MAB.THEZE.
About a fortnight ago Mr. C. E. Williams gave an
interesting seance at my house, about which I feel
bound to publish an account. Several friends were
present, and among them were Mr. Henry E. Cole,
Mrs. Moncrieff, and Mr. and Mrs. Heaton. In
accordance with my intention a few only had been
invited, in the hope of thereby getting better manifes¬
tations.
We sat in the front drawing-room round the table,
in the dark, holding each other’s hands, including those
of the medium, as is customary at Mr. Williams’s
seances. Almost everything in the room from the side
tables and sideboards, was placed on. the table round
which we were sitting, also one or two objects from the
back drawing-room for which we asked. The whole of
this was done in such a gentle way, that we were all
surprised to find the table so overcrowded with objects
when the light was struck, many more than asked for
having been put on it.
In the second part of the sitting Mr. Williams was
seated in a chair in the back drawing-room behind the
curtains; he asked us to tie him in his chair in any
way we pleased, but as nobody desired this it was not
done. We had tied him in my house on a previous
occasion. He put a pin in the curtains to keep them
together. He requested us to sing, and shortly after¬
wards John King came out with his light; he moved
to and fro, passing even behind the sitters; he also
came over the table to us, and floated up to the
ceiling.
After talking to us for a time, he placed his peculiar
light in each of our hands in turn; he left it in my
hand for about two minutes, thus giving me a full
opportunity to examine it. The light was enveloped
Jan. 15, 1875.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
31
in the folds of his robe, and it had the appearance of
alabaster or of Bologna phosphorus. As I had been
told that Mr. Crookes had made a similar light,.! asked
him whether they were the same, and he replied,
“ No.” John King then requested me to walk with
him into the back room to see Mr. Williams in his
chair. I did so, and John King moved his light over
Mr. Williams’s form and face, so that I saw his features
clearly, and Mrs. Heaton, who was two or three yards
off, saw his features too. I did not see John King’s
face at the same time, but saw his hands and drapery.*
Of course everybody was highly pleased, especially
one or two ladies who had never seen John King before.
Everybody was thoroughly satisfied that no fraud was
possible during the whole time that these manifesta¬
tions were taking place.
20, Palmeira-square, Brighton, Jan. 11, 1875.
(EorraponTience.
[Gnat freedom it given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
M. SARD Oil’s PLAYS.
Sib,—In an article by Mr. Coleman, which appeared in
The Spiritualist a few weeks ago, allusion was made to the
mediumship of M. Sardou, and in especial reference to his
last play, La Haine. I copy from The Spiritual Magazine
of May, 1869, the following, which had previously appeared
in The Birmingham Post of April 10th of that year.
“ Yiotorien Sardou.—The career of Yictorien Sardou, which
has been one of unexampled success is known to be entirely
under the control of spirits. As a youth he had not exhibited
the smallest dramatic talent. He was bidden by the spirit of
Balzac to write a comedy—under • the dictation of the great
philosopher and novelist. Yictorien obeyed without the
smallest faith, and having written the piece, presented it to
the director of the Gymnase, simply because he was bidden to
do so by the spirits. The piece was played, and had taken
the town by surprise before Sardou was even aware that it
had been accepted. He was at Havre when the account
reached him in the papers. The success which has greeted
every one of Sardou’s productions—not one failure having
marked his career—does seem the work of magic. No wonder
it is attributed to the spirits.”
If Spiritualists have been led into error by exaggerated
opinions it is well, for their own sakes, that they
should be disillusionised, and this may be done, in the pre¬
sent instance, by referring to a letter of M. Sardou himself
on the subject, in which the idea of his writing his plays
by li the dictation of Balzac,” or “ entirely under the control
of spirits,” is fully disproved; although there appear evident
signs that he is assisted by spirits, and as equally strong
evidence that these same spirits only help men who help
themselves, to any really profitable results, for the most part
at least. Instead of simple “ dictation,” Sardou gives evi¬
dent proof that in the production of his plays there is hard
brain-work throughout. The enclosed extracts from his
letter as published in the Daily Telegraph from The Figaro,
I here quote:—
“ I think I cannot better employ my time than in setting
before your readers the substance of the letter of M. Sardou—
very curious and interesting—which The Figaro publishes to¬
day. It refers to the new play, La, Haine. M. Sardou takes
occasion, in answering some critics and many inquirers, to
announce that the identity of its ‘ moral’ with that of Patrie
is a mere accident. With no such moral was the play con¬
ceived. Says M. Sardou: ‘ I know not how the idea of a
drama forms itself in my confreres' brains. With me there is an
invariable rule. It always comes to my mind under the form
of a philosophic equation, out of which the unknown quantity
must be disengaged. As soon as it ‘ sets,’ this problem pos¬
sesses me, besieges me, gives me no rest till I have solved
it. In the case of Patrie, the question was, ‘ What is the
* Mr. Heaton, who is a barrister, informs ns that he saw the whole
form of John King standing outside the curtains, and holding them hack
to allow the spectators to look into the cabinet, where by the light of the
lamp he saw Mr. Williams reclining in the chair; he saw the medium’s
hands clearly, and his face less distinctly.—Ed.
greatest sacrifice a man can make for love of his country ?’
The answer being found, my play worked itself out. In La
Haine the problem was: ‘ Under what circumstances could
the native charity ofj woman show itself most strikingly ?’
The answer I found,not without labour, was this: ‘It will be
when, victim of an outrage worse than death, she feels for her
murderer a sentiment of pity which makes her fly to his aid.’
M. Sardou perceived that his story must have its thread in
the midst of a society where violence was common. He re¬
membered the words of Dumas’ pere, ‘ Given a strong idea,
and history will always find you the milieu which best becomes
it, and the fraine that best shows it up.’ M. Sardou had
already perceived the truth of this maxim in Patrie, which
had been first lodged at Venice, and then moved to London,
before finding its home in Flanders. La Haine made even
more voyages. At first the wars of the Fronde attracted M.
Sardoubut not for long, as one may believe. Then he tried
the Ligue, with no better fortune. He ascended as high as
the wars of Charles VII. But at any date in France he found
the bourgeoisie, from amongst whom his hero must be taken,
‘ ridiculous, stupid, labouring with all their strength to retard
their own emancipation, and to deliver France to her enemies,
with that wonderful instinct for what is untrue and absurd
which has rarely failed our bourgeoisie in misfortune.’ M.
Sardou perceived that French history did not offer what he
sought. But across the Alps, in Italy of the 14th century,
what savage fights of street against street, house against house,
room to room! ‘ And what manners ! Combats like fetes, and
fetes which look like fights.’ In such a state of society, such
a time of hatreds run mad, the ‘struggle of Guelfs and
Ghibelins easily lent itself to the outrage, and then the ven¬
geance, and then the pardon ! But I perceived suddenly,
whilst snatching at all, what I had was lost; then indeed came
a moment of despondency and fear. For, in fact, the frame,
stretching, threatened to split my canvas. This civil war took
so large a place in my drama, that it began to overshadow it
on every side. My leading idea of woman’s charity, reduced
to the bare proportions of a kindly act, was somewhat over¬
whelmed without remark in the lamentable outcry of ‘ City
gone mad ! You save one man! Why all a nation is perish¬
ing !’ To have the right of pushing the action into promin¬
ence I must double the woman’s character by that of the
citizen. Her charity must rise to the height of a lesson. . . .
And only then, for the first time, occurred to me the idea of
patriotism. But, with a programme thus enlarged, the diffi¬
culty also grew. To transform Orso, by the example of par¬
don, was easy! But what act should he accomplish, at the
prayer and for the honour of this woman, to transfer to all the
populace the benefit he has received from her ? I may say
that few difficulties I have met in life have been equal to that.
I thought I should never solve it!' But the aphorism of
Dumas occurs to his mind, and the author diligently seeks his
idea amidst the troubled tale of Italian warfare. He finds it,
as we know, in the sudden alliance of Guelfs and Ghibelins on
January 18th, 1369, when they fell together upon the Em¬
peror’s troops and cut them to pieces. ‘ It was enough to give
Orso the initiative in this fine movement, to make him prove
his repentance and merit his pardon. And in this manner
came to me the ray of light so long sought for. Thus the ap¬
peal for civil concord which seems to have inspired all my
piece, really showed itself at the last moment, and in some
sort of its own accord. Thus, finally, what appears to be the
root of my drama is, in fact, no more than the bloom and
flower.”
M. Sardou is said to be a drawing medium. Personally, I
regret to find that M. Sardou does not write by spiritual
“ dictation,” because I thought it accounted for the method
by which some of Shakspeare’s plays were produced.
  An Observer.
INTERNAL RESPIRATION.—NO. 3.
Sir,—In my first two papers in Nos. 81 and 89 oi The
Spiritualist, I endeavoured to explain the physical and spirit¬
ual phenomena of inner breathing. In the present I will
adduce the Scriptural proof thereof, and this subject may be
naturally divided into two parts, (1) the prophecies of inner
breathing; and (2) those passages of Scripture which can only
be elucidated by reference to it.
I. Before we can fully understand these passages we
must remember that the Greek word pneuma, and Hebrew
ruach, which are in our version usually translated spirit,
also mean wind and breath; and if we make use of
the latter translation we shall see the meaning clearly,
and their evident relationship to this subject. The
effect of internal breathing is twofold; first in the case of a
32
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1875,
good man it gradually purifies him from all evil, and at last
opens his spiritual faculties in an orderly manner, so that he
has communion with the spiritual world without being the
slave!of spirits, as ordinary mediums are; in the case of a bad
man, however, it cuts short his evil career by causing physical
death. Harris further teaches that a period will arrive in
which inner breathing will be given to the whole world, when
all the remaining evil will be swept away, and none but those
who love goodness remain.
Now we find in Scripture all this predicted.
In Joel ii. 28-9, we read, “I will pour out my breath upon
all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy,
and your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men
shall see visions; and also upon the servants and upon the
handmaids in those days will I pour out my breath." It may
be objected that Peter claimed the fulfilment of this prophecy
on the day of Pentecost; but this was only a partial fulfil¬
ment, only the foretaste of what was to come, for the spirit
was not then poured out on alt, flesh. Its real fulfilment
evidently takes place in the establishment of inner breathing,
and the prophecy shows us that it is to be universal, without
regard tp age or condition of life.
The destruction of the wicked by it is also predicted in the
following passages :—Isaiah xi. 4, “ With the breath of His
lips shall He slay the wicked ”; again, xxx. 27-8, “ Behold,
the name of Jehovah cometh from far, burning with His
anger, and the burden is heavy: His lips are full of indigna¬
tion, and His tongue is a devouring fire : and His breath, as
an overflowing stream, shall reach to the midst of the neck, to
sift the nations ” ; again, xl. 3-8, speaking of the last days,
the prophet says: “The grass withereth, the flower fadeth,
because the breath of Jehovah bloweth upon it.” Paul also,
in 2 Thess. ii. 8-9, says with reference to these last days:
“ Then shall that wicked one be revealed (referring to the evil
side of Spiritualism) whom the Lord shall censure with the
breath of His mouth/ and shall destroy with the brightness of
His coming: even him whose coming is after the working of
Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders.” Again,
in Isaiah Ixv. 17-25, speaking of the millenium, the prophet
says : “ There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an
old man who hath not filled his days: , . . for as the days of a
tree are the days of my people.” This fully agrees with what
Harris teaches, viz., that inner breathing removes all disease,
and prolongs life immensely. Again, in Isaiah lix. 19, we
read “When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the breath
of Jehovah shall lift up a standard against him,” which
agrees with the prediction of Paul quoted above. In Daniel
xii. 1, 2, we find a very remarkable passage, the mean¬
ing of which has never before been unfolded. “ All that
time shall Michael stand up, the great prince who standeth
for the children of thy people ; and there shall be a time of
trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to
that time; and at that time thy people shall be delivered,
every one that shall be found written in the book. And many
of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake ; some
to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting con¬
tempt.” The meaning is as follows:—Michael (as will be found
in Arcana of Christianity, i.), is the name of that society of
angels who were faithful when Satan and his followers fell;
and holds important relations to our earth at the present time,
being exactly opposed to Satan and his army of devils, who
are now making their final assault upon this earth. “Thy
people,” signifies the Jews, and hence, in a figurative sense,
the New Jerusalem Church—not the Swedenborgians, who
falsely assume the name, but those who have inner breathing.
The “ time of trouble ” refers to the spiritual and temporal
troubles about to come upon the world; after which we have the
assurance that “thy people” shall be delivered; all of which
agrees accurately with the teachings of Harris. The awakingof
those who “ sleep in the dust” is commonly held to refer to what
is called the general resurrection; but it Cannot have any such
meaning, as the prophet does not say all, but many who sleep
will arise. It is really a prophecy of inner breathing, which
will raise many out of their material state, called “ the dust
of the earth,” lifting the good to higher states, and destroying
the wicked. In connection with this should be read Ezekiel
xxxvii. 1—14, which contains a prophecy of inner breathing
and the effects thereof. There are yet two other passages in
the Song of Solomon which are remarkable. This book,
which has been often objected to as a mere amatory poem, is
really a most sacred book, as is seen when it is properly
translated. The ordinary title, “ The Song of Songs, which
is Solomon’s,” is wrong; it should be “The Song of Songs,
which is for Solomon,” or, “ Concerning Peace ” (which Solo¬
mon signifies); and it is an allegory typifying the peaceful
state of the Most Ancient Church, which possessed internal
breathing, and also of the Church of the Future, in which it
will be restored. In ii. 5, we find, in the ordinary version,
“comfort me with apples;” the word translated apples is
derived from a verb signifying to breathe (see Genesis ii. 7,
Ezekiel xxi. 31, Psalm x. 5), and should be translated, “ sus¬
tain me with breathings.” A similar expresion occurs in
viii. 5, where the ordinary version, “ I raised thee up under
the apple-tree,” should be translated, “ I raised thee by in¬
spiration. ” These extracts from Canticles are taken from
.Bellamy’s Translation of the Hebrew Scriptures ; his remarks
on this subject are the more valuable, as he was opposed to
Spiritualism. (I may here state that Bellamy published from
Genesis to Canticles; the rest, in MS., came into the posses¬
sion of my friend, Mr. P. Stuart, of Liverpool, who has-
published “ Daniel,” and the “ Minor Prophets,” which are
sold by John Thomson, 89, John-street, Glasgow: the rest
will be published if the public want it. They will well repay
perusal and study.)
II. We now arrive at the second part of this subject, viz.,
a consideration of those passages of Scripture which, without
directly prophesying inner breathing, yet have reference to it,
and can only be explained by it. It may be asked how this
can be, seeing that inner breathing has only recently been
restored to the world. The answer is, that the Lord Jesus
Christ possessed in His human nature this inner breathing;
He, so to speak, conquered it back from the power of evil,
and made it possible for men to receive it. Why it was not
sooner given was because the early Christians were un¬
faithful to the high trust committed to them ; but that they
all looked for it in their day under the name of the Second
Advent will be manifest if we read their writings. Be¬
fore examining these verses, it will be useful to quote the
following passages from the Arcana of Christianity, iii. In
section 525 Harris says, “ The experience of St. Paul struck the
key-note which determined the experience of subsequent
Christian ages. Evidently he was at the first under the im¬
pression that the work of the Spirit in him was destined to
bring about both spiritual and corporeal redemption. He was
at first in a state of wonderful mental exhilaration and eleva¬
tion ; by a transfer of sensations he felt the regenerative life
of Christ working within him, while the body seemed to sym¬
pathise, and to throw open all its doors as triumphal arches for
the entrance of the King of Glory. It was for him afterwards
to realise that in the state of closed respiration there is no
bodily redemption, but at the highest bodily subjugation and
passional extinction. It is affecting to trace out through the
Epistles the perilous line of his experience. He tells us how
sin revived in him, and he died; in other words, how the
carnal and natural man, stunned with the flood and visitation
of the Spirit until it lay as dead, woke from that seeming
trance, and powerfully warred against the work of regenera¬
tion in the will. He groaned under the bondage of corruption.
He clearly saw that under the spiritual administration in¬
augurated through the a postles, the corporeal nature of man
might be held in check, but could not be regenerated. To his
perception the whole world was in like condition. He lived
continually in hopes of a second coming of the Lord, which
should accomplish that which was left unfinished in his first
advent.” It will be said here, in what consisted the unfaith¬
fulness of the early Christians which prevented their recep¬
tion of this higher life ? The answer is given in Arcana of
Christianity, iii., 375, &c.:—“The world is full of the ruins
of attempts at the embodiment of something different from
the lowest and most degraded, selfish, and sensual principle
in associated life. Christ, by his constraining presence, kept
a little circle of immediate disciples in a supersensual and un¬
selfish attitude. When the Holy Spirit descended at Pente¬
cost, these followers of the now risen and glorified Redeemer
seem to have been conscious that the embodiment of
the Christian religion involved new societary regulations.
They were not the subjects of an infallible guidance,
as their own admissions in the records prove. The
practical difficulties in the way of administration of
fraternal order and equity, fell upon them with ap¬
palling force. Economical disputes first menaced the in¬
tegrity of the brotherhood; and the complaint arose that
* certain widows were neglected in the daily ministrations.’
At this point was developed the germ of that weakness which
led to the long and dark and bloody train of all schisms,
heresies, and apostacies. The apostles shrank from this issue,
as they had faltered twice before, namely, when they would
not watch one hour, supporting by their active sphere the
Jan. 15, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
33
agonised human body of our Lord in the garden of Gethese-
mane; and as immediately afterwards they forsook Him and
fled when He was betrayed and led to crucifixion. They had
gathered a multitude of earnest, faithful proselytes, and they
had preached self-renunciation and living and labouring for
one another, and had accepted in trust the wealth which these
earnest, honest neophytes had poured at their feet. The
chronic, incurable weakness of that twelve here betrayed itself
again. Possessed as they were of many of the virtues, as a
body they were deficient in the crowning grace. The Spirit of
the Lord God, through His now glorified humanity, had de¬
scended. They had taught the multitude how to drink in
and how to be filled with that Spirit, and loyal and in good
faith had been the response. But they seem to have thought
that Christianity could organise itself, that this germ dropped
down from Heaven, provided there were ground for it to fall
into, would become a tree. They had not the most remote
conception that the infant body was entering upon a historic
course, the result of which would be a Greek antichrist, a
Latin antichrist, an antichrist, in fine, developed in the midst
of every aggregation of believers throughout mankind. What¬
ever forecast they possessed, they did not look forward to the
time when great kingdoms should be nominally in the fold,
the heads of the church be drunken rakes, and the prelates
opulent sinecurists, while millions of the brethren should be
ground to powderbetween the exactions of the regal and of the
sacerdotal power, and multitudes of the sisters driven to
prostitution for a little bread. They did not see the choicest
revenues of kingdoms .consecrated, generation after genera¬
tion, and their opulence cast at the feet of those who
were to be, in the order of time, their successors, but
only to be squandered afterwards by ecclesiastics elevated
into dignity through buying preferments of the concubines
of Christian kings. Whatever page of the future they
may have read, it was not the history of the religious estab¬
lishment of Italy, or of Great Britain. They never scanned
those of its paragraphs which sum up the history and
development of the ecclesiastical principle under the Christian
name in Spain, or the slave States of America, or the Dutch
and Portuguese East Indies, or the French and British and
Spanish West Indies. But why enumerate a sickening
catalogue of abominations ? They undertook to propagate
Christianity without organising it; to wrest men out of an
old system without practically initiating them into a new
system. They said, It is not reason that we should leave
the Word of God and serve tables, but we will give ourselves
continually to prayer and the ministry of the Word.” The
record goes on to state that they advised the brethren to
select seven men to discharge certain duties with respect to
these charities; that the saying pleased the people, who
thereupon made a choice, whereupon the apostles prayed and
laid their hands upon them; and that practically ended the
work of the twelve, so far as the embodiment of Christianity
in social life was concerned. Henceforth the number of
believers multiplied with incredible rapidity ; but, in a more
alarming ratio, the quality of their faith, the essential divinity
of their life deteriorated, till in a few centuries, the churches
and the nationalities of the disciples, with isolated individual
exceptions, were packs of howling barbarians, till the moral
and affectional and fraternal standards of Christendom were
below those of the Confacians of China, or the worshippers
of the Great Spirit in the wilds of Western America. In a
word they propagated faith without organising it into social
charity, and into industrial equity, which is the foundation of
charity. As a rule, in spite of the presence of the Holy Spirit,
doctrinal divisions arose among themselves, as the “ Acts of
the Apostles ” proves. As another result, doctrine became
continually more nebulous. All things march hand in hand.
The principles of truth can only be verified and understood to
the extent to which they are carried out in practical applica¬
tion. The apostles instituted a spiritual work which led
regeneration into the spiritual nature of man, but not down
through the corporeal to all ultimates. As a result they
retained or elaborated as much of the Lord’s truth as
applied to what they did, but they were unable to retain
and to preserve in the church, or to embody in clear
statement, those principles which they did not teach men
to embody. They divorced, at this point, the spiritual
from the temporal, the internal from the external. The
consequences were universal. Failing to build solid work
beneath the feet of the disciples, failing to embody order in
ultimate works, they left the door open for failures every¬
where. They expected that miraculous gifts were always to
continue. Mankind, in the declining age before the flood, did
not dream but that open respiration would always endure; so
the apostles evidently expected a potent personal inspiration
always to endure. In limiting the area of their own works,
they limited the operations of the Holy Spirit. How far they
were responsible or culpable let no man judge; but on the
other hand let no man say that they were fully excusable.
They, at least by indirection, instituted here the beginning of
that fatal divorce between the religious function and the prac¬
tical function, which has resulted in the moral and social
atheism of the 19th century. One almost hears the Lord in
spirit pronouncing over them those touching words, “ Could
ye not watch one hour ? ” One almost sees the Lord uplifted
in spirit upon that great industrial cross, whereon His faith
was to be recrucified through 19 centuries of inversion,
in the broken hearts and bleeding bodies of the in¬
numerable toilers of the globe; sees Him looking in
vain for those who ate with Him the Passover, but
have now forsaken Him and fled. They had an exaggerated
idea of the importance of praying and of preaching, as com¬
pared with that of embodying and of organising truths of duty
and the inspirations of self-sacrifice. They should have
known, if they were the followers of the Carpenter, that their
Master dared not preach till He had trained Himself through
industrial service. In a word, they shrank from industry, and
in so doing, the orb of their inspiration began to wane. One
is astonished, if he will but dare to let himself face the
question, at the tremendous failure, in appearance, of the most
full and absolute of all the promises and predictions of the
Master. “ These signs shall follow those that believe; in My
name they shall cast out devils; they shall speak with new
tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any
deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on
the sick, and they shall recover.” What is the legitimate
deduction from this, but that the Lord God was to fill with his
Spirit the aggregate body of the new Christian people, which
should cast out the world’s diabolisms, and expel its Satanhood,
and take into itself—yet in so doing neutralise and destroy—
the very bulk and substance of all its poisons and corruptions ?
He did not predict and promise that very soon His disciples
should be divided into great bodies, orthodox and Arian,
cutting each other’s throats, confiscating each other’s pro¬
perties, and dooming, so far as man might doom, each other’s
spirits to everlasting damnation. Yet He did His part. He
fulfilled His promise. He came again at Pentecost. The
Apostles received these powers, but received them subject to
the one inevitable [ condition. Their duty was to have en¬
deavoured to have instituted unity, and to have allowed no
individual to have been accepted as a full member of the
Church of God on earth in whom those gifts of the Spirit were
wanting or deficient. In a word, again, they should have made
slow progress but sure progress. There were two paths open
before them. They chose the one which at the first promised
the largest immediate result; evidently their great desire was
to multiply believers; they could not bear to wait; they did
not see, as one might infer, that enthusiasm without organisa¬
tion leads inevitably to dissension and destruction. Instead
of organising a militant host, in whom the prayer of our Lord
in His humanity found its fulfilment, “ I in them, that they
may all be one, even as we are one ; I in them and thou in me,
that they may be made perfect in one”; they organised a
body that from the beginning was never thoroughly unified or
consolidated; a body negative to the world and its ruling powers;
a body that has always been enslaved through despotism,
generated principally within itself. Of all gifts, those which
are spiritual are of the most uncertain tenure. /The spiritual
can only, be kept as it is embodied in the material. One can
see in this light to what kind of succession the Divine Carpen-
ter, who was also the Divine Builder of the cosmos and all its
wonders, promised perpetual prolifications of this Divine-
natural potency. Cannot the most superficial reader of His
life see that, from the beginning to the end, He was simply a
working man. His very outermost frame was built up as a
sanctuary of indwelling industries. He did not cease to labour
when He laid aside the axe and hammer; He was simply work¬
ing on in the very marrow and spirit of toil. His preaching
was not what men now understand by preaching. The
words which went out through Him were projected as
forms of the Divine force; His first workshop was that
of a carpenter, but His latter the body of humanity.
He simply meant that His disciples should carry on this work;
that they should be knit together as the affections were con¬
solidated within His bosom, or the substances throughout His
frame. The life of Christ is the Gospel of industry. He was
able to be an artisan, a physician, an exerciser, a ruler over
THE SPIRITUALIST.
34
Jan. 15, 1875.
nature, a teacher and lawgiver, a Prince and a Saviour, and
at last the universal Redeemer, through the perpetual unition
maintained between His human nature and the divine. By
means of that divine-human, He came to dwell in the spirits
and bodies of the disciples, giving Himself, however,.according
to the planes in which they embodied the inspirations. That
kingdom of harmony, which virtually is contained in the
spirit of the Apocalypse, was waiting to become an embodied
new creation through His people. The powers which consti¬
tuted the seven churches were, in first principles, descending
then. There were nationalities beyond the Roman empire,
whereto the apostles might have journeyed, wherein they
might have gathered the germ of a Christian people; there
were uninhabited lands to which they might have been led for
this purpose, They took a narrow, technical, and Jewish view
of this commission.
They founded societies withal of terrestrial angelhoods.
They failed to comprehend the principle of exclusion. They
failed to organise the rising body upon the ground of non¬
complicity with evil. They lingered in the borderlands of
compromise. Paul withstood and overcame that prejudice in
their midst, under the influence of which the converts from
among the Pharisees taught that without circumcision there
was no salvation; but the astounding thing is, that this
church in Jerusalem, which is the mother of churches, should
from the start have embodied within itself the heresy of
ritualism. Who can tell what other heresies were generated
there ? In this primitive field, the full ears and the barren
ears, the fat kine and the lean kine, were planted and herded
together; and, as in the ancient’s vision, the full ears were de¬
voured by the barren ears, and the fat kine wasted by the lean
kine.
Thus far for the early Christian’s expectation of inner
breathing and'the reason of its non-fulfilment. We will now ex¬
amine one special passage of scripture which refers to it. The
first I will quote is in Romans viii. 2, “ But if the Spirit
\breatK\ of Him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in
you, He that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken
your mortal bodies by His Spirit [breatK] that dwelleth in
you.” The effect of inner breathing is to expel all disease
from the body, and make it perfect, and this verse is evidently
an assertion of what the apostle constantly looked for to be
accomplished in his own lifetime. The same idea is con¬
tained in Philippians iii. 20, 21.
There is a passage in Hebrews, vi. 4—6, which through
a wrong translation or a perverted interpretation has caused
misery to many, who fancied that they must be eternally lost
because they had been backsliders. It reads in our version,
“ For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened,
and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made par¬
takers of the Holy Ghost [Holy Breath], and have tasted the
good Word of God, and the powers of the world to come [lite¬
rally,' the power of the coming age], if they should fall away,
to renew them again unto repentance, seeing they crucify to
themselves the Son of God afresh, and put Him to an open
shame.” But if we attend to the true translation of these
words, we shall see that Paul looked for certain spiritual gifts
in the coming age, and here states that if those who have
received them fall, they can be no longer returned to their
former state. This is just what Harris says, viz., that though
inner breathing is sometimes given slightly as a state of pro¬
bation; yet when the respiratories are fully open, the reci¬
pient must advance in regeneration, or the truth is withdrawn,
and his natural life ceases; a fearful warning for those who
possess it.
There is another passage in Matthew xii. 31, 32: “ All
manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men, but
the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost [breath] shall not be
forgiven unto men. And whosoever speaketh a word against
the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him; but whosoever
speaketh a word against the Holy Ghost [breath], it shall not
he forgiven him neither in this world [literally this age] or the
world [age] to come.” I have known many persons greatly
distressed by this verse, fearing that they had committed the
unpardonable sin. But it has no such meaning as that which
has been forced upon it. We must bear in mind the occasion
on which these words were uttered. Jesus had cast out devils,
and claimed to do it “by the spirit [breath] of God” (verse
28); the Jews deliberately accused Him of acting by infernal
inspiration, saying this not from an error of judgment, but from
malice and hatred against what they knew to be good and true.
Hence this was a blasphemy or speaking against the Holy
Breath, differing from opposition to Jesus arising from mere
ignorance of His Deity, which is called “ Speaking against the
Son of Man.’’ Therefore Jesus here declares the enormity of
deliberately and with wilful malice against what is known by
the person to be good and true, speaking against the Holy
Breath, or internal respirations, within the “ present age ”
(1,800 years ago) or the “ coming age,” which has now com¬
menced. And when it is said that this crime will not be
forgiven or passed over, or excused, for so the word may be
translated; it does not mean that the offending individual is
to be eternally lost; or not forgiven in “ the world to come ; ”
but that in this life he must necessarily suffer an especial
punishment for the crime which he has committed in attempt¬
ing to destroy the incoming of the Lord’s New Kingdom; both
in order by such punishment ultimately to show him his
crime and lead him to amendment, and as a warning to others.
In my next paper I will examine the various charges brought
against Harris, and reply to them.
E. W. Beeridgb, M.B. (London).
A SEANCE WITH MISS LOTTIE EOWLER.
; Sib,—I propose to give you a very brief account of a seance
I had recently with Miss Lottie Fowler, relative to various
matters of business of much intricacy, for I have seen reason
to form a very high opinion of her capacity in that branch of
spiritual phenomena, after an experience with media of all
kinds, commencing upwards of twenty years ago.
As soon as she was entranced, her spirit-guide, Annie,
opened the conference by intimating to me the presence of
eight or nine spirit friends behind my chair, most of whom,
from past experience, I knew perfectly well would probably be
attending me to this seance. She proceeded to give me, from
one in particular, some twenty-five tests of a startling
character, notwithstanding that I attempted several times to
stop her, observing that I had no need whatever of tests,
did not care for them, and, in fact, considered it all waste of
time. The reply was, “ I wish first to prove to you by tests,
the identity of your friends, so that you may afterwards be
able to place a fuller confidence in whatever information you
may receive.” Certain pieces of advice were then given to
me quite voluntarily, some of not the most palatable kind, but
probably all the more important on that account.
There is, however, one particular and important point, to
which I desire to invite attention, for the purpose of warning
those who often fail in obtaining tests exactly as they wish, of
the mistake which they are liable to make, by rejecting in toto
any spiritual communication in which test failures may
happen to occur. I found that on two or three occasions at
this seance blunders were made, such, for example, as saying
that it was about fifteen years since I had last visited North
America, when in reality it was twenty years. The spirits
then observed, “ it appears like fifteen years to me, for we do
not measure time or space in the way mortals do.” And I
then on reflection perceived that the mistakes were relative to
matters which, were a medium desirous of pretending
to powers not really possessed, it would have been easy to
have obtained a knowledge of by inquiry, while the successful
tests, which were to the number of about twenty-five, were
relative to matters which it would have been absolutely im¬
possible for any one, even a gipsy, by previous scrutiny, to
decipher or unravel. I account also for the fact that some
spirit communications are astoundingly correct as tests, while
others are failures, or partially so, in the following plain
simple manner—the spirits affording the former are probably
old business hands, who have had much experience in com¬
municating with mortals, while the spirits who attempt tests,
and yet do not quite succeed, are individuals who may be only
serving their apprenticeship, if I may use the expression, to the
modern system of mundane intercourse.
Though the eight or nine spirits to whom I have alluded as
attending me to this seance chiefly belonged to my own family
circle, I was startled to find that two did not even belong to
the same nationality as myself, and the reason given for the
presence often with me of one of these in particular, who was
an Athenian, has afforded me more food for reflection, to say
the least, than I anticipated. The cause given carried me back
to a visit of political interest which I had made to the East viA
Athens some twenty-five years ago, the peculiar circumstances
attending which, though passed greatly from my mind now,
had attracted to me the spirit in question, by bonds of mental
sympathy. A most gratifying significance in reference to
some important episodes in my past life, has now attached
itself to spirit communion in my mind, at a period quite an¬
terior to the advent of modem Spiritualism in England. And
the lesson I learn is this, if past acts are thus capable, by re-
THE SPIRITtJALlST.
35
Jan. 15, 1875.
trospective analysis, of affording much conscientious satisfac¬
tion even in this life, on finding they have been appreciated
by beings of the upper world; what happiness or misery must
we all have in store for ourselves hereafter, when we com¬
mence in the next life to review all our earthly actions, and
find them either smiled or frowned upon by those whom we
most love and respect, on our arrival in the spheres'. Conse¬
quently, we shall be wise to consider this, when resolving upon
our acts of to-day and to-morrow.
7th January, 1875. C.
THE ORGANISATION OR BRIXTON SPIRITUALISTS.
Sib,—I hear that there are many Spiritualists in Brixton
and neighbourhood, but that there is no organisation, and
that there would be no difficulty in forming a society for the
investigation of Spiritualism and kindred subjects, if some
one living in the neighbourhood would undertake the work
preliminary thereto. This in substance has appeared in your
columns. I should be glad to assist in forming an association
of the above kind. Perhaps those Spiritualists and would-be
inquirers in Brixton, Stockweli, Clapham, and district who
would like to join the society would correspond with me on
the matter.
Mr. David H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M., bf Lavender-hill, S.W.,
who is well known to your readers, writes to me, thoroughly
approving of the project. Arthur E. Rendle.
12, Methley-Btre6t, Kennington-park-road, 11th January, 1875.
A SCOTCH POEM ON PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
The following lines, giving an account of an incident which occurred
about twenty-five years ago in the place mentioned, were written by the
late John Milne, “the Glenlivat Poet,’’ a character well known overall
Scotland about that time. The account here given was no exaggeration of
the story, which was then generally accepted:—-
Some time ago I have heard a story tell’d.
About some folk that had amaist been fell’d
At Baldairoch—wast frae Aberdeen—
The like for mony a year there hadn’a been.
The evil spirit—to his name rebuke—
Took up a hantskip in the folks peat-nuke;
Afore the fire they could’na sit. for fear,
For peats and clods [cam’ bang* in the fleer.
Xhe bearbeatar—O’ great weight and size,
Aft like a bird into the air did rise,
It did flee o’er the houses like a lark
And fell down at the folks taes wi’ a Turk,
The folk did think that a’ was lost,
The very cheese ran to the fire to roast,
The steels and chairs to heaps o’ boards were ca’d,
The very wheels gat tae and ran like mad.
Baith oot and in the folk were clean bombazed—
And far andnear the country was amazed;
The aufu’ cloddin’ scarcely e’er devalled,
Until at last the parson—he was called—
"Wha tried to smooth the matter wi’ a prayer—
But still the clods cam’ bang in here and there,
And when the sun ga’ed do*vn they grew mair . thick,
The folk saw naething ’till they fund the lick.
James Chalmers,
Constitution-road, Dundee,
Dec. 21,1874.  
. SPIRITUALISM IN HOLLAND.
Sir,—In your paper I find the translation of an article from
the Arnhem, News about Messrs. Bastian and Taylor. I send
you herewith a pamphlet in which you will see our defence of
the above-named remarkable mediums. The war of words
going on in the Dutch papers about this a€air shows abun¬
dantly that.the conclusion of the Arnhem gentlemen are not
sustainable, are too hasty, and that their utterances originate in
their ignorance of Spiritualism and its phenomena.
The Hague Spiritualists would be the first to throw out
false mediums, but we cannot include in that category
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, of whose medial powers we have
had the most striking proofs. With them we had carriage of
solid objects from outside the circle; direct writing out of the
reach of the mediums (even on my lap); voices while Mr.
Bastian’s mouth was filled with water; names obtained from
relations of the sitters in the spirit-land‘previously unknown
to the mediums; an iron ring put on and taken off, the
medium being bound, sealed, and leaves of paper placed under
his feet on which the outine of each foot was traced; in
the light and also under test conditions we obtained hands
and music.'
As to the study of Spiritualism in our country. We possess
now in Mr. Masch, of Rotterdam, a very good physical
medium ; he visits us nearly every Tuesday, and we obtain,
while he is in the cabinet and the investigators are round the
table in the room, lights, rope-tying and untying, touches,
playing of bells, direct writing, and so on, “ Harry,” for that
is the name of his spirit guide, promised to materialise and to
show himself. At Amsterdam, Utrecht, and Leyden, the study
of Spiritualism is still going on. A small book has just been
published by Mr. Rutgers van der Loeff, containing among
other items, some of the experiences of Mr. Crookes. Steadily,
but slowly, Spiritualism is making its way here, and we gene¬
rally much prefer the English manner of investigation, viz.\
the study of facts, which we think to be better than the start¬
ing of new dogmatic and speculative systems. May Spirit¬
ualism bloom ! A. J. Riko.
The Hague, Holland, Jan. 11th.
Passed to Spirit Life.—Miss Eliza Till, sister to Mrs.
Cook of Hackney, well known to some of those who once at¬
tended Miss Cook’s seances, departed this life on Wednesday,
Jan. 6th, and her earthly body was interred yesterday, in the
churchyard of her native village, Cobham, Kent.
Shakers’ Aid Fund.—In addition to the sum of .£100,
reported in the daily papers, Mr. A. C. Swinton, Hill House,
Anerley, and Mr. A. Glendinning, Erances-terrace, Victoria-
park, have received £31 5s. 6d. Part of the latter sum was
expended for food and necessaries for the sufferers during the
extremely cold weather. If the Shakers are reinstated in the
farm, and some gentlemen appointed to act as trustees, two
persons have indicated their willingness to subscribe liberally
towards the purchase of stock.
Mesmeric Phenomena in Lausanne.—Mr. Algernon
Joy, who is still in Switzerland, writes from Lausanne
“ Some years ago, a lady here, with whom I am connected,
and all of whose family I know intimately, allowed herself to
be experimented upon by an amateur mesmerist, who had
never tried his hand before. Pn a very few minutes she was
in a deep trance, from which he in vain attempted to rouse
her, not knowing in the least how to set about it. But the
spirits had got hold of her, and she began babbling of green
fields, &c., in a way that frightened her superstitious relations
out of their wits. At last, when the mesmeriser, who was a
doctor, had done everything he could think of, she was put
to bed, and in course of time became quiet, but was long
in waking, and was unwell for some days. Some time after,
when this had been almost forgotten, she was one of a circle
which tried table-turning. The doctor above named was not
present, but in a few minutes my friend was entranced
again, as deeply as before, and again began talking, ‘all
sorts of things.’ Some time after this, at a ball, she suddenly
went off in the arms of a gentleman with whom she was
waltzing, to his great terror. Another time she pulled up
short in the middle of a tune she was. playing on the piano,
perfectly rigid at first, as on the other occasions. ■ She
cannot bear to be spoken to on the subject, and has, I
believe, had no recurrence of the * disagreeable symptoms’
for some years past. There are, .so far as I know, no
Spiritualists here. As elsewhere, most people ‘ know,’ that
it is all humbug, the remainder that it is mortal sin.”
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—An agreeable social
gathering of friends and others interested in the “ Spiritual
Mission Services” inaugurated by Mrs. Ohlsen, local medium,
at Farnworth-street Lecture-hall, Liverpool, was held in that
hall on Wednesday evening last week, at eight o’clock, Mr.
John Lamont in the chair. He spoke in favour of spirit-
communion, interspersing his remarks with incidents of per¬
sonal experience with mediums in private life who did not
hesitate to give their services for the public good, too often
without any other reward than that of a clear conscience and
the calumny of their friends and the investigating public.
His remarks were received with that attention which shows
the estimation in which the hard-working-vice-president of
the Liverpool Psychological Society is held by all classes of
inquirers into Spiritualism. At the close of his address he
observed that he had a pleasing duty to perform, namely, to
present to Mrs. Ohlsen a handsome purse containing four
sovereigns, as a token of recognition from the frequenters
of that hall, for her services so freely given during the last
seven months. Mrs. Ohlsen was completely taken by sur¬
prise, and unable to express her feelings at this indication of
cordial sympathy and approval. Several spirits entranced
her in succession, and delivered some interesting addresses,
after which the proceedings closed. Mrs. Ohlsen’s gifts are
clairvoyance, hearing mediumship, test and trance speaking.
She is the wife of a working man, and gives her services for
the love of Spiritualism.
as
THE SPIKITUALIST. Jan. 15, 1875.
MESSRS. BASTIAN AND TAYLOR.
Through facilities given by Mr. Martbeze, we have obtained
the other version of the charges made against these two
mediums by the persons who broke the conditions at one of
their seances, which particulars we failed in our attempt to
obtain in time for last week. The statement that Mr. Bastian
had clappers in his hands, was a mistranslation of the original
Dutch document; it should have been that he was clapping
his hands. The assertion that he had the guitar in his hands
was signed only by the five persons who planned the trick, all
the others refusing to certify such was the case; and the
“spring-puppet” which the report wantonly intimated to be
connected with the mediums, was a thing brought there by one
of the visitors. Mr. Riko has published a pamphlet on the
subject, ascribing the trumpery charge to foregone conclusions
and ignorance of psychological phenomena, which conclusion,
after hearing both sides of the case, and examining the facts
by the light of experience, we heartily endorse. They offered
another seance to the objectors, who refused] the proffer, and
they did not leave the room in the hurried manner stated.
They have sent us a letter on the subject, which shall be
published if they wish, but perhaps this independent testimony
from independent sources, that there is every [appearance of
the charge being without just foundation, will answer the
purpose better.
Spiritualism iu Darlingtou.—Mr. Gh R. Hinde writes:
“ One of the happiest features of Spiritualism found expres¬
sion in the soiree held here on Tuesday, January 6th, when a
choice gathering of the friends of the cause graced the occa¬
sion with their presence; for harmony and real live enjoy¬
ment the meeting was excellent. . . . Unlike the conserva¬
tive phases of religion in our country, Spiritualism recognises
the value of a proper indulgence in many amusements which
in themselves are pure and recreative, such as the drama and
opera, and while it points men and women to certain methods
of obtaining present and future bliss, it is generous enough to
leave them free to have a dance at the end of it. Proper
recreation is becoming very popular, especially with the young
among us, who rejoice in a freedom unknown by the observers
of the popular faiths. This freedom produces mirthfulness of
heart, the exuberance of which was amply illustrated at our
soiree above mentioned, the leading features of which were
tea-drinking, with its stimulating social effects, excellent glee¬
singing by the choir, together with many meritorious solos
and duets by various friends, games, and sundry captive
hissings under the mistletoe in good old English fashion, pro¬
fessional music on the violin and piano, and dancing. Thus,
at three o’clock the following morning, closed, without there
having been a jar or aught that could offend the most precise
observer, one of the happiest evenings I ever experienced.”
Spiritualism pr Brighton.—The Brighton Daily Mail
of December 26th contains an article written by a barrister,
from which the following is an extract:—“ Spiritualism is said
o be immoral and worthless, to whichi s answered: On the
contrary, it is in the highest degree moral to teach a future
life of progress, and give proofs drawn from facts, and that the
most serious want in human nature (the satisfaction of which,
until now, has been drawn from purely speculative sources) is
here supplied. That relief is here given to the unhappy
choice between belief in the cruel dogmas of religion on the
one hand, and the darkness of Atheism and Materialism on
the other. Spiritualists claim, in support of their position,
that they follow strictly the Baconian method, that they base
their theory on facts, and that theirs is the only theory which
embraces all the facts. Truly, this is very wonderful. It is
the first time in history that the believers in the supernatural
have assumed this position. Delusions have been plentiful,
but we find nothing at all analogous to this unless in mes¬
merism, which is claimed as part of Spiritualism. The objec¬
tion urged by a ■priori reasoners that the invariable sequence of
phenomena called laws of Nature, amounts to a complete in¬
duction, and cannot be contradicted by any evidence falling
short of a complete induction, is good as an answer to any
evidence except that of the senses of the investigator properly
corroborated. Nevertheless, the scientific leaders of philo¬
sophic thought of the day, say, * We won’t investigate, and
there is an end of the matter.’ But it is evident that here
there is not an end of the matter. Some of the leading intel¬
lects of the day have decided in favour of the truth of the ob¬
jectivity of the phenomena, and more than one man eminent
for his attainments in physical science, disbelieves after ex¬
amination in the subjective character of the manifestations.”
Mr. E. Corner and Mrs. Corner (Florence Cook)
are now at Antwerp on board the S.S. Madras, which is in
harbour there.
Mrs. Bullock has taken a small hall in Islington on her
own responsibility for Spiritual meetings, and will open it in a
short time with a social gathering of friends.
Soiree at Co swell Hall.—On Thursday last week, a
soiree was held at Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road, London, to
aid the Sunday meetings. Mr. T. Slater occupied the chair,
and, in opening the meeting, delivered an address under spirit
impression. He said that he had investigated Spiritualism
in every form since 1849, and it gave him much pleasure to
meet so many friends, to testify to them the truths he had
received through it. Mrs. Major, a teacher of music, was then
introduced by Mr. Haxby, and gave an overture on the piano.
Mr. W. T. West recited in good style “ Honesty” and “ The
Game of Life.” The Scotch song, “ A man’s a man for a’
that,” was sung by Miss Vaugar under spirit influence. Mr.
F. Tindall, professor of music, then gave the “ Clara Waltz ”
on the piano. Mr. Wallace, missionary medium, made a
speech under spirit control. He was one of the first in
London to investigate Spiritualism, and, after two years’
inquiry, found out that its phenomena were indeed facts;
the last new thing revealed to him was the fact that spirits
can be photographed under a brilliant artificial light and
be clearly recognised. Mr. Eglington gave a song. Mr.
Towns passed under spirit influence, and for some time
described the bands of spirits which he saw hover¬
ing over the platform. Mr. Haxby made a statement
about the Sunday meetings, which had been carried on
since the 6th of April last. After an interval of a quarter of
an hour for refreshments and conversation, Mrs. Major and
Mr. G. Haxby gave a selection of music on the piano and
violin. Mr. J. Burns, after relating how he was called to the
work of Spiritualism, spoke of his first acquaintance with Mr.
and Mrs. Bullock, and he examined Mrs. Bullock’s head
phrenologieally. Mr. and Mrs. Denman, under spirit influence,
sang a duet, at the same time Mr. Denman playing on the
organ. Mr. Hy. Starnes gave a recitation, “ The Heart’s
Charity,” by Eliza Cook. Miss Keeves recited “ The Bridge
of Sighs.” Mr. Coles, inspirational medium from Chicago,
gave an address. Mr. S. Owen recited a poem which had been
spiritually given him some years ago—“ The Spiritual Mar¬
seillaise”—which was afterwards sung to the tune of “ The
March of the Men of Harlech.” One or two other short
speeches were made, and the meeting dispersed after singing
“ God Save the Queen,” each one being highly satisfied with
the entertainment. Mr. Haxby tendered his thanks to all
those who assisted to further the success of the soiree, and
hoped that as the meetings continue he may meet with the
same sympathy and support.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Recently five or six circular letters contributed to several journals
aj the same time, have been sent to us as if they were special
literary contributions to The Spiritualist, Apart from such action
being a departure from ordinary literary etiquette, as well as
from natural good taste, it does harm to Spiritualism that the
amount of space for publication at its disposal, should be some¬
what wasted by the same news being printed, several times over
to the exclusion of unpublished matter. We shall be glad to
receive circular letters when candidly informed that they are
such by the senders, and now and then may use portions of them,
but cannot do this often, in consequence of being desirous, though
often unable, to find room for much literary matter of more value,
supplied under ordinary conditions.
BISHOP AUCKLAND ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE COMMITTEE beg to announce that a GENERAL
MEETING will be held at Mr. S. S. Lingford’s Baths, Olyde-terrace,
on SUNDAY EVENING, the 24th Inst. Chair to be taken at six
o’clock.
The committee cordially invite all Spiritualists in Town and District, who
are linterested, and have a desire to spread the glorious cause, as business
of great importance will be brought before the meeting.
Jos. Gibson, Eon, S*c.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Numberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
Jan. 15, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ni
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical dr Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vemon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, 'W.O.,
MR.,CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, (will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-ro&d, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CUR AT I YE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re-,
ceive engagements to lecture.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street* New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Seances every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute-road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman
Price Threepence. To behad of W, H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IMPORTANT TO INVALIDS!!!
MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS BY LOCK OF HAIR!!!
MR. AND MRS. E. H. GREEN, TRANCE SPEAKERS
AND CLAIRVOYANT PHYSICIANS.
For Medical Diagnosis send lock of Hair, well enclosed in oiled paper,
stating sex and age of patient. Prescriptions carefully compounded, under
apirit-control of “Professor Hare" and the (Indian Chief “Blackhawk ’
Fee to accompany the Hair, 10s. 6d., by post office order on Brothefton
—Address, Marsh House, Brotherton. Ferry Bridge, Yorkshire.
COATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well
selected stock of Christmas and New Year’s Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived, and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8£d. per packet; also, a large Assortment of
English, French, and German teys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Camhridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-read, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-huSdings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., WestKensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendo . Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hiride, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-sqnare, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, H.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W,
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road,'01d Kent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J, House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-viUa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawhridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenhurg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Oamden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron VonVay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
Th? Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Grata, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molehstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Proj/mstue Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs "Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearycband Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. 0. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipeic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.!
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1875.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed pn the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.BLC.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Byte; James 'Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Eeed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq. ; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq, F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, "which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner, asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals,’answer.questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of th6 Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ ' i 
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.1
Should no results -be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other.
Bitters, One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be pf a comfortable temperature, but. cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number Of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch eacfl other pr not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when One of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the. table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want.of, harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-'
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing,, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
. 6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When'motions of the table or'sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “No,” and two •mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. . If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of' communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best, manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be ■ afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits’out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to. mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and aSl the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869. •
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is tEe oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributers to its pages comprise most Of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. 'Bobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Man'yat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory ; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H:
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. O. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London^ Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. E. L. S. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Mies A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Bichardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
fTlHE TWO DISCOYERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
X SPIBITUAL TELEGBAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enabled every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIBITUAL DEPABTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the 'path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions iq marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematieal discovery increases the acouracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
Beady by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Boob. Anew
work on
SPIRITUALISM, SCIENCE, AND CHRISTIANITY;
showing their Harmony and Belationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Mediumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. fid.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holbom, London, W. C.
HE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
• Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Beform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 24d. Published on
the 15th of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Beigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and, corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, <tc
Each number contains inter alia— *
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Beports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Beviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.O.
