L&£ti.LST£B,JSD IS A NeWSPAPEB,
JOUS(K®I<
0^ ^^YdSO^OG^ICiS^
(flfre# Ifefofmpr toxi^ ^phtiwalbrn m dmi §nfaiit»
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON t n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Fhilosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 205.—(Vol. vm.—No. so.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1876.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Communications by a Spirit, and Cure of Organic Disease
by Spirits. By William Oxley...    ... 849
Spiritualism in Yucatan '.   849
Remarkable Seances in Liverpool. By E. Louisa S. Nos-
worthy      ... 850
To -what Extent are Mesmeric Sensitives Responsible for
their Acts? By Allen Putnam    350
Blackwood's Magazine on Spiritualism and Magic 351
Dr. Slade’s Mediumship and English Men of Science. By
Charles Carleton Massey  352
Musical Inspiration   ...   ... 853
The Testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis 854
Strong Physical Manifestations with Dr. Slade. By Emily
Kislingbury   354
Proposed Formation of a Choir 355
/Sfewtres with Dr./Slade   ...  355
Correspondence:—Home Experiments upon Thought-In¬
fluence—Spiritual Phenomena in Ashton-under-Lyne
—The Pre-existence of the Soul—The Educa tion of
the Children of Spiritualists—Clairvoyance—Manifes¬
tations through Mr. Colruan’s Mediumship—Form
Manifesations versus Materialisations—Spirit Messages
—What are Works?—Interesting Confirmation of a
Message—Darwin’s Relationship to Spiritualism 356
The Development of Religious Freedom  — ... 359
A Presentiment Realised    359
Spiritual Lectures in Liverpool...   ...   360
Anti-Spiritualism in Leigh    ... 360
Notices to Correspondents   ■ ... .... ....    ... 360
Paragraphs:—Spiritual Phenomena in South Africa, 354 ; ,
The Marriage of Mr. Dale Owen, 355; Library of the
National Association of Spiritualists, 355; Mrs. Weld-
on’s Concert   ... ... ... .... ... 360
RS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.--
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,” Ch. Rawlings, &c.; will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistook-square, W.O, 
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on th# minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
DRILL HALL, LEIGH.—A three nighte’
Discussion on Modern Spiritualism will be held at the
above Hall, on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, July 31st,
August 1st and 2nd, between Mr. J. W. Mabony (of Bir¬
mingham) and Mr. Robert James Lees (of Manchester), known
as the “ex-me'dium.” 
QUEBEC HALL, 25, Great Quebec-street,
Maryleb one road.—MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION
OF INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.—Tne above Asso¬
ciation having completed a series of four experimental seances
with Mr. Bullock (medium), which seances have been conducted
under strict test conditions, intend holding an open Meeting
on Tuesday, August the 1st, for the express purpose of afford-
i: g each sitter at the above seances the opportunity of stating
1 is opinion publicly as to the nature of the phenomena called
Spiritual.
The Committee are open to arrange with other public
mediums for experimental seances. Address—W. O. Dbake
find G. F. Tisbry, Hon. Sees. 
mHE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester,
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Comer, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—H, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, oh Thursday
evenings, at 7.46 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In audition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
“ To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the; library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscript|ion for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for August, 1876.
Members are requested to note that the offices of the Asso¬
ciation, at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed during the
absence of the secretary, from the 14th to the 28th August.
Thursday, 3rd.—Library Committee, at 4.30.
Monday, 7th.—Seance Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
luesday, 8th.—Prize Essay Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m. At the con¬
clusion, or in the absence of ordinary business,
the meeting will be made Special, as here¬
tofore announced, for the consideration of
certain amendments to the rules of the Asso¬
ciation, notices whereof will be sent to each
member seven days previous to the meeting.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR INYES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to be held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-street. Usual
phenomena. Movement of objects in the light. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly offered his services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m., punctually.
Fee, 5s.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moial,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
he obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 88, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is, lid.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from ali parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained thiough any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seancts,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Bussell-sweet, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great 1‘lussell-street
Post-office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
SPECIAL CODNCIL MEETING.
I^TOTICES OF MOTION for Amendments fo
-Lx the Constitution and Rules of the Association having
been given in, such amendments will be considered at a
meeting of the Council on Tuesday, August 8th, which will be
made special for the purpose. Members of Council having any
further motions to propose are icquested to send in notice
thereof to the secretary without delay in order that copies of
the same may be furnished to every member of the Council
seven days previous to the meeting.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
LECTURES.—JULY, 1876...
Mr. J. J. Morse:—
“ Trance Address ’’ ... Sunday, July 2, at 3 p.m.
„ „ ... „ „ 2, at 7 „
„ ,, ... Monday, „ 3 at 7.30 „
Mr. W. G. Simpson:—
“The Existence of God
as Illustrated by Poets" Sunday, July 9, at 7 p.m.
Mr. Wksigarth:—
“InspirationalAddress” Sunday, July 16, at 7 p.m.
MR. Thomas Pattison:—
“ Swedenborg's Heaven
and Hell ’’   Sunday, July 23, at 7 p.m.
Mr. John mould:—
“ Conflict bet ween Science
and Religion ” ... Sunday, July 30, at 7 p.m.
Admission Free. Collection at the close.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
A PICNIC
Under the auspices of the above Society (in aid of the fund
for re-decorating their Lecture Hall; will be held in the
GROUNDS of Mr. W. R. Armstrong, at HIGH-CROSS
LODGE, BEN WELL, on Monday aft°rnoon. August 7th, 1876
(Bank Holiday). Tea will be provided in the Grounds at 6
o’clock.
Tickets, including admission and tea, Is. 6d. each, may be had at
Mr. E. J. Blake’s, Grainger-street. For admission to grounds
only, 6d» each, pay at gate; children, 6d. each.
In the Evening a
TRANCE ADDRESS
Will be delivered by Mr. J. J. MORSE, of London, under the
Trees, (subject to he announced), at the close of which a collec¬
tion will be made.
A cordial invitation to all.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances. &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance a t
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8p,m.; subscribers only.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 28, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1. Hereford-square,WestBroinpiiton„S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld', Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, i'homas, Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, J\liddljsex„
N.W.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square„W^
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, WilUam, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington..eqj0,
Liverpool.  
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build-,
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. 1> .liose-vllla. Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R.. Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M. !>., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra*-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wasoh, James, Wasou’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armficld, W. N., Eden-villa, Calrns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-rond, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, iiear Reig.gte.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann's-^quare, .Mauche-ter.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery,.Samuel. 4, Elsham-road. Hollaim-road.Kensingiton, W.
Coffin, W. H , 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Oolley, Rev. Titos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth,
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. IC, Nightingale Hall, Riehmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vieuna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosiand, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blitok-
heath,S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North.
Brlxton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixtonv
. -S.W.
.Glendinning. A., 4, Castledine-road, Anevley-road, S.E.
Hayie, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delainere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Moy, Algernon, M.I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S-W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’*-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W.. Th(‘ Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, Iving-squarc, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Nevvbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trat'algar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redeliffe-gardens, South Ken- ,
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs.G.N., Annandale, Cent 'al-hill. Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Ciaverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W. '
Whit6. J-. Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wjlson, D. II. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace,Clapbam Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
WitbaH, Miss H., 1, The. Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthall, H., 1, 'The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wppd, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea* S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq,, Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Mr. J. H. Andre.
Auditors.
Mr. H. Cook.
Resident Secretary.
Mr. Morell Theobald.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
•Constantinople. . .
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinok-Holinleld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Brantiug, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan.New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beliet a, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany,
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., m D., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U .StA«
M. F. Clavairbz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U S.A.
W L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U;S.A. • . ■
Mrs. J M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelplua.U.S.A.
j. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 6, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels. 1
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue dm Midi,
■Brussels. “ " -
Lieut.-Col. P. Jaeoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1 Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
Jr L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. 8. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A E: N«hrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-nlace, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
’ Mrs. Hallock; 46, Hereford-read, Bayswater, W.
• Signor.Damiani, Saiita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-str.csse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied ^Societies.
The Liverpool Psychologieai Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Evertoh.
L’ Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexahder-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalstoh,E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec , H. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Esplritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—LI Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice President — Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason. Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. P. A, Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilto.i, Dr. Hitchman, Mr Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughau, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
i.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.  ^    
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embiacing Philosophy. Science, Government,
Religion. Poetry. Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiav, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a rrauce state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the liierature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literal y ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-
row'.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile ot soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALIStt EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition Price 3s.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
eyeniugs (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
‘RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE, HEALING,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended; Address 90, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium.
T T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
m in the forma'ion of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, vithin a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newoastle-on-
Tyne.
TSS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), ineluding specifics.,
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
RS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by tranre and writing. Development and other phases as
uuua1. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive callaas usual, to lecture in London
or the pi’ovinces. All Letters to be aduressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Mr. Willie eglinton, medium,
can he engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
]yriss LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
A-*-®- American Somnambuli t, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Em ope and America. Homs, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea
Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence, nor see visiiora
on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place, Bloomubury-square,
London, W.O.
RS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium fur traucecommunications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance lor refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will he held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
W.C.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in ac¬
cordance wilh patient’s means. Patients attended at their
-own residences by appointment.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id,; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTBLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or acceding to
j circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y., 16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.
mo LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi-
I detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6i
guineas a week for-four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
J[ tl xif nnt uf ^pujiiuulbm*
Volume Eiqht. Kumber Thirty.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 28th, 1876.
COMMUNICATIONS BY A SPIRIT, AND CURE OF ORGANIC i
DISEASE BY SPIRITS. !
BY WILLIAM OXLEY. j )
The following particulars concerning a communication j(
made by a spirit who appears at our circle in Manchester, j j
to a circle meeting at the same time in Scotland, is worthy | >
of record, as it dissipates the theory of mind or thought j
reading by mediums, and can only be explained on the ||
ground of an outside intelligence, forming no part of the f
assembled sitters. Further, if the facts be admitted, they
go a long way to prove to dcfubtful persons the activity of |
spiritual beings in mundane affairs. j)
On my recent journey into Scotland, I was informed of the j
occurrence, and thoroughly knowing the persons concerned,
I can vouch for the truthfulness of the narrative. On April O
17th, 1876, we held a meeting at the house of Mr. Gaskell, jy
Oldham-road, Manchester, at which Dr. Monck was the ||
medium. (Particulars of what transpired at this meeting are j
contained in The Spiritualist oi May 12th, 1876). On the j
same evening a meeting was being held at Kirkcaldy, Scot- j (
land, the members of which are well known to myself, but of | j
whose then meeting I had no knowledge. Soon after the j j
commencement of their meeting a spirit calling herself I.
Bertie announced her presence, and spelt out her name by !
means of raps; she informed the meeting that a seance j
was being held in Manchester, at which I was present. She j
said that the meeting was not being held at my house, i. j
On being asked who were present, she spelt out the name of |
Dr. Monck and Mr. Reimers, but as this last name was an j j
uncommon one, and one with which none of the members If
were acquainted, they thought they were being imposed upon, ! j
and while the spirit Bertie was spelling out another name, j
they stopped the proceedings, and declined to have anything j
more to say to the spirit, as they did not wish to be deluded 11
either by spirit or mortal. Knowing that they did not take i \
The Spiritualist, and thinking that that number might be in- j
teresting, I forwarded a copy to Mr. A. Arnott, their presi- j
dent. - It may be imagined what was their surprise to find I
that the account given to them by the spirit Bertie was fully |
verified by Mr. Reimers’ report in the number above referred j
to, with the names as given by Bertie, but which had i
passed from their memory for the time being. I leave the 11
fact to speak for itself, and for my own part prefer to accept j j
the statement of the invisible operator, viz., that she is a j |
disembodied spirit, with a consciousness of individuality, I
and that she is herself, rather than try to find a hundred and I
one reasons to show that it is an exhibition of some power j
inherent in ourselves, and all which, when found, are | j
worthless for the purpose of unravelling the mystery con- j
cerning the human organism, and the continued existence of j
the spirit in other conditions than those of material | (
embodiment. j j
That which follows is more remarkable than what has j |
been given, as it is no less than the cure of organic disease; | j
at least if not a perfect cure, the malady is to all intents and !
purposes so subdued as not to prevent the discharge of the I
duties and the enjoyment of pleasures pertaining to earthly j(
life. The case is as follows: Mrs. Arnott, sen., who is a jj
member of the circle in Kirkcaldy, was suffering from con- j |
gestion of the lungs; when I saw her she was ill in bed j
gasping for breath, and I took my farewell of her, never j j:
expecting to see her again in the flesh. But I will give the j
account in the words of Mr. A. Arnott, her son, who is j j
president of the circle. He writes : “ As to the cure of my ! j
mother (who is an elderly woman, about 65 years of age, I j
should judge), I am quite certain, as it is a case patent to all 11
who know her. The doctor took my brother to the door, I
and told him to break it as gently as possible to my father, j
that she could not live many hours. Another doctor being Hi
requested to come and see her, replied that it would not be
of any use, as he knew that her lungs were gone years ago,
so we all assembled at her bedside waiting for the change;
in fact, we thought the spirit had fled, and had to feel the
heart to know if she was still alive, when after a sleep she
looked up and asked if any one had been touching her, as
she had felt some strange £ pattings’ all over her side and
chest. We knew what these were, as we had been told that
there was an old doctor of the family, but now in spirit life,
who was in constant attendance upon her; he had been
asked if she would recover, but he was reticent upon the
matter, and only said she should be relieved of the pain she
had been suffering; from this time she daily gained more
strength, and is now as well as she has been for years, and
on Thursday last walked a distance of eight miles into the
country with us, where we all spent an agreeable and happy
day.”
I saw the old lady myself about a month ago, and was
astonished to find her to all appearance well and hearty,
with but little if any indication of weakness, and it was my
happiness to congratulate her on her recovery, for such I call
it, when calling to mind her state on a previous visit six
months ago, when I saw her prostrate, wheezing and gasping
for break Her husband told me that she gave up taking
any medicine from the time at which the event took place,
viz., the touch of spirit hands.
This is a case of healing by direct spirit agency without
the intervention of an earthly medium, and proves the
action of an intelligent and beneficent power possessed by
spirits who under certain conditions can and do use it, for
the good of those mortals whom they love, and to whom
they specially minister. As the members of that circle do
not care to have their names paraded in print, I will only
say that they are quite willing to testify to the truth of this
narrative, if desired.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, July 17, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM IN YUCATAN.
The secretary of the National Association of Spiritualists
has received a complete copy of the little Mexican-Spanish
journal, La Ley de Amor, with a letter from the editor,
Senor Rodolfo Canton, dated Merida, June 29th, 1876, in
the course of which he states that Spiritualism has been only
recently introduced into Yucatan, and its votaries suffer
much persecution from the fanaticism of the Roman Catholics.
The Spiritualists are few in number, and chiefly members of
poor families of the working class; but they appear to have
great faith in the new doctrine, and look forward to a
brighter future, when the errors and prejudices now prevalent
among the populations of Spanish America shall have passed
away.
Information respecting Spiritualism in foreign countries,
especially accounts of the more developed physical pheno¬
mena, are read with avidity by the little band at Merida, but
as publicity is dangerous, the circle calling itself Peralta,
after the chief communicating intelligence, is surrounded by
strict guardianship, and the conditions of membership are
purposely made somewhat severe. For this reason Senor
Canton avers that it is impossible to exercise as large an
influence for good as is the case in other countries, though
the Spiritualists of Merida do not intend to be daunted by
their difficulties. They have the encouragement of knowing
that there are Spiritualists and spirit-circles in other parts of
Mexico, if even not so many as has sometimes been repre*
sented. The central society in Mexico is said to have
laboured with great success. It has a well-edited periodical,
entitled the Ilustracion Espirita, the matter of which is
i principally drawn from the teachings given through trance
350
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 28, 1876.
and writing mediums, or members of the circle. On the | <
whole, the tendency of Kardecianism versus unalloyed Spirit- ,j j
ualism, is in Mexico, as among its European professors, j j
towards moral edifying rather than towards the evolution j <
of physical facts. It appears probable that both aspects of M
the movement might be improved and strengthened by the \ j \
amalgamation of that which is best in their respective ||
characteristics, and to this end the wider diffusion and | i
rapid interchange of literature, added to personal intercourse j <
and correspondence, will doubtless be in the highest degree ! ?
conducive. !)
i >
REMARKABLE SEANCES IN LIVERPOOL. |
BY E. LOUISA S. NOSWORTHY. I <
It may be interesting to many readers of The Spiritualist j (
to know that whilst investigators are obtaining indisputable j)
proofs through the mediumship of well-known professional j)
mediums, of the power of spirits to appear in temporary i (
material bodies as tangible and real for the time being as are j j
our own, the same startling phenomena have been occurring j >
weekly for some time past in a quiet and strictly private home j (
circle of this town. As one of the persons privileged occa- !
sionally to attend these circles I send an account of what I i)
have witnessed. j
In the month of September last my father, Mr. George |
Thompson, being my visitor, and earnestly desirous of wit- j
nessing the materialisation of the spirit-form, I obtained j(j
permission to take him to the circle in question. At this ij!
sitting Dr. William Hitchman was also one of the sitters. ||
The room is a very small one, about ten feet square I should j j
imagine, and on the occasion in question—as on all occasions j)]
—we were directed to sit round the room and to sing, the {■jj
medium having retired behind a drapery of green baize, and j 11
there being sufficient light from a paraffin lamp to see our I j
own figures. ■ i I!
A short time after the retirement of the medium the cur- | I
tains were drawn aside, and a dim shadowy vapour appeared | j!
in which was faintly outlined the human form ; this vapour | (j
gradually grew more dense; a head and arm were fashioned j (
from it, and the arm immediately began to manipulate the |
vapoury mass below it until the whole assumed the j (
figure of a tall man, clothed in white raiment; this j
man quickly showed us that although he had appeared |
as a vapour, and literally manufactured himself in j
our presence, he was no longer a cloud, by coming out j (
into the room, and giving each sitter a grasp of his |
strong tangible hand; more light was then permitted us, j j
and we could see that the spirit was a majestic, grave-look- !
ing old man, with long flowing white hair and beard. After !
remaining out of the cabinet (which is simply the aforesaid I
green baize) for a considerable time, this spirit retired to the j ||
spot whence he had issued, and standing therein with the |)
curtain held back by his own uplifted arm, he beckoned each j j
sitter in succession to come up and stand close to him and j ]
his medium ; whilst there he gazed steadily into our eyes, j
and invited us to do the same with him. My father was j
enabled to perceive that he was of fair, almost pink and I
white-complexion, and that he had a reverend and dignified j
aspect. As he stood holding up the green curtain with one j
arm, and pointing with the other to his entranced medium, | j
he made a picture never to be forgotten, and my honoured j j
father told me afterwards that the effect on him was almost j j
overwhelming, especially when standing before the spirit so j |
closely as almost to touch him, the words, ft God bless you,” j j
were uttered in low tones by this visitor from the other j I
world. We were then visited by three other spirits, who j j
all manifested in much the same way, walking round our I j
circle to shake hands with each, and permitting us to touch j j
and manipulate their drapery. One of these presented us ! jj
each with a fruit of the capsicum kind, which we were |||
assured was not within the walls of the house when we sat j jj
down. jjl
This memorable seance was closed by the first spirit visitor I il
{he of the reverend appearance) returning, and a camera ijj
being arranged, a photograph, was taken of him and Dr. !jj
Hitchman by the magnesium light.   i ilj|
_ A week after this I was permitted another sitting at this j j
circle, Dr. Hitchman,. again being present. . Our .medium lii
had scarcely been more than a few minutes behind his
curtain, when a large light issued therefrom: this luminous
body travelled round the room and approached one sitter so
closely, as to induce a fear that he would be burnt by it; he was
quickly, however, assured that it was cold, though luminous,
for it touched him. The light travelled in my direction,
which was precisely under a lamp which hangs against the
wall, and can be raised and lowered at will; at this moment
it had been turned very low; following with my eyes the
direction of the spirit light, I had to turn my head in the
direction of the lamp behind me. To my surprise I perceived
a hand on the lamp, and the next moment it was turned up,
revealing a figure clothed in white by my side; this spirit had
not been developed—so it seemed to me—within the cabinet,
but had made his first appearance in the manner related.
He was as solid as all the other forms I have encountered at
these marvellous seances; the shaking of hands was gone
through to prove this, but as I only intend occupying the
space permitted me by a relation of the most striking-
features of these seances, I thus pass over many details. This
spirit having taken leave of the circle, a very dignified form
issued from the curtain, taller than the last, and with a pecu¬
liar courtesy of salutation, which seemed to denote
“ the gentleman;” he advanced to Dr. Hitchman, and
showed special marks of pleasure at his presence; then
in whispered tones he asked for a sheet of clean paper
and a pencil. These he handed round the circle for
examination, and all having inspected them the spirit man
deliberately drew a chair to a small table near, and sat down
to draw on the paper. He continued some minutes to scratch
and mark rapidly, then rose, and, advancing, presented the
paper to Dr. Hitchman with a bow. On examination it was
found to be a good pencil drawing and likeness of Dr.
Hitchman’s head and shoulders.
The next striking feature of this seance was the exit from
the room of one of the spirit figures, the door being left open
for him; he passed out of it, entered an adjoining room, then,
passing from that, he walked upstairs, and returned, bearing
in his hand a mantelpiece ornament from one of the bed¬
rooms. On this occasion also the spirits were seen forming
themselves; once or twice they showed themselves at the
entrance of the cabinet materialised only to the waist.
Mr. Charles Blackburn has described a subsequent stance
at this circle, where I was again a sitter; he has also, with
an architect, examined the room in which these things occur,
and it was found to be uncellared—absolutely built on the
ground. It is not unusual for three spirits to manifest
together at this circle. Can any sceptic find a theory away
from Spiritualism to cover every phenomenal feature of these
circumstances ?
17, Richmond-terrace, Liverpool.
TO WHAT EXTENT ARE MESMERIC SENSITIVES
RESPONSIBLE FOR THEIR ACTS?
BY ALLEN PUTNAM.
The use of a medium’s physical organs in the performance
of what is claimed to be a spirit manifestation, though it
may engender suspicions of fraud, does not of itself prove
the medium dishonest, nor does it exclude the admission
that some spirit produces the witnessed result. a Come
now and let us reason together,” and do it logically.
It is a general habit of mankind to regard all sane men and
women as being the actual authors of, and therefore respon¬
sible for, whatever their tongues utter, or their hands per¬
form, and this habit is so prevalent, that the wisdom and
justice of its promptings are usually conceded without
.question or consideration. What this habit exacts may be
generally just toward those who are non-medial, or toward
all whose physical organs are never controlled by other will¬
power than that of their legitimate owners. But the latter
class does not embrace all mortals, consequently there may
be persons whom public habit condemns unjustifiably. The
experience of thousands, and the observations of millions,
have within the last twenty-five years produced the very
.prevalent conviction that quite a large number of embodied
vhuman spirits are liable to such banishment from, or to such
subjection within their own bodies, as enables other minds
and wills to control those bodies, and speak and act through
July 28, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
them; and oftentimes these forms utter and do what their
genuine owners neither could nor would perform. This, we
think, is the belief of most, if not of all, Spiritualists.
Some power outside of many persons greater than the
powers within, may enter, dwell, and rule there, at least
fitfully.
What follows from the above ? The apparent or ostensible
authors of sayings and acts manifested at times through
medial bodies may not be the genuine authors, and may be
no more responsible for, and in some cases no more conscious
of what is said and done, than are the garments which
clothe the manifesting limbs. Spirits can use the hands,
feet, and other organs of some mediums, and if they do,
and when they do, the operations may be strictly spirit
manifestations, even though we see and feel the medium’s
organs of bone and muscle used in their production. When
we actually see a medium’s hands busied in some operation,
it by no means follows necessarily that he or she is using
those hands, or is conscious that they are being used. The
medium may honestly and truthfully deny the performance
of any act whatsoever in cases where, scores, and even
hundreds of witnesses can and do affirm truthfully that they
actually saw the medium operating. Here comes in the
world’s restrictive habit spoken of above, and makes us
feel that the medium is untruthful and dishonest, and such
is likely to be our view until we reflect that if the claimed
mediumship be genuine and ample, his or her condition may
have been, and even should have been in many cases, that of
absolute unconscious existence in a material body. The
more ample and facile the mediumship, the greater the pro¬
bability that a medium can truthfully deny that he or she
either performed movements, or procured or secreted articles
which engendered suspicions of fraud, because greatness of
mediumship of itself contributes to the ease with which
roguish spirits, contentious ones, or even wise and beneficent
ones, can severally execute their whims or purposes.
Whether a medium’s hands are used in distributing flowers
about a room, in procuring rag-babies, in obtaining paraffin
moulds, and other acts which engender fraud and falsehood
(though made a primal question by the world’s habit), has
really but little, if any, pertinency in the case of a genuine
and well unfolded medium. If the limbs of one who is
meanwhile entranced to absolute unconsciousness be used by
a spirit, the work performed by using them is just as much
that of a controlling spirit as the same would be if he per¬
formed it without the use of those limbs, and the medium’s
denial of any participation in or knowledge of what his limbs
have been seen performing, may be made in all sincerity,
honesty, and truthfulness, because the fact that the body was
subject to the will of an outside intelligence involves a pre¬
sumption that the owner of the body was not in a condition
to operate through it, nor to know what was done through it.
When any one, whose mediumship has been extensively
observed and conceded, is charged with fraud, because of cer¬
tain acts or objects extensively performed or obtained by
employment of that medium’s physical form, Spiritualists
may well admit the facts alleged, and give attention to only
the justness of the inferences from them. The world says,
“ If the medium’s hands were used the medium used them.”
Perhaps it was not so. It is the privilege, if not the duty,
of Spiritualists to ask whose will set and sustained that form
in action. Was it that of the medium, or that of some
spirit ? If the performance seems to transcend the ordinary
powers of a medium having a fair character for honesty and
truth, and who denies conscious use of the operated limbs,
both logic and common justice require a Spiritualist to hold
the medium guiltless of fraud until it be rendered probable
that the medium’s body was essentially under his or her own
control. And if it shall ever be rendered quite probable that
the external forms of a very large number of our efficient and
trusted mediums are never made amenable ..to some power,
outside of themselves, much weakening of the foundations of.
our faith will have been effected. Far off be that day. .
It is very unwise, if not unjust, on our part to leave un¬
used the power furnished by the fact of possession, for vin¬
dicating the innocence of both many mediums and many
reputed criminals whose reputations, peace, freedom and
lives are exposed to cruel sacrifice, unless restriction be
placed upon the public habit of holding every individual
3U
| responsible for each and every act and word which is mani-
j|j fested through the individual’s external form.
I The views briefly presented above enable a calm observer
j?! to apprehend that if Spiritualists generally could and would
||j keep in mind, and use properly, the obvious fact that when
m a medium’s form is fully possessed by a spirit, the medium is
|j no more responsible for what is being done than is any
j|| looker-on at the manifestations, many such altercations as
Hi have transpired would never be repeated; for the basis of
| i most charges against the honesty of mediums would then
||| sink out of sight—that basis being the untenable assumption
(j that, in the case of genuine mediums, all that is ever seen
|)| to be done by the use of their organs is done by them.
Hi The unrestricted application of an assumption which is
| | inappropriate in some cases has engendered much strife,
11| contention, and recrimination among disputants equally
||| honest, equally truthful, equally devoted to the support and
| | vindication off Spiritualism, and to the welfare of mankind,
i|| and who should be friends and co-labourers, and would be
|)| so but for omission to use instructions distinctly furnished
m to the careful student of the spirit operations of the present
| | day. Hope is cherished that a more extensive application
Iff than heretofore will be made in the future, of the knowledge
I | that the highest mediumship often involves total unconscious-
I | ness of, and absolute irresponsibility for, many acts which
I the medium’s external form performs.
| I The only conclusive proof that a medium has perpetrated
l)| fraud is proof that the physical organs of the medium acted
| i in obedience to his or her own will and purposes at the time
| | when the seemingly fraudulent acts were performed.—Banner
| I of Light) July 1st, 1876.
I “BLACKWOOD’S MAGAZINE” ON SPIRITUALISM AND
I I . . MAGIC.
| I The last number of Blackwood's Magazine contains, in
j | dialogue form, some liberal expressions of opinion on the
| j subjects of Spiritualism and Magic. The following are
I ! quotations from the article :—
j)! Belton—I have often sought for the house of Cagliostro, the famous
|)f magician, but I have never been able to identify it. He lived I know
j j j at one time in the Piazza di Spagna, and at another in a street near the
|)| Piazza Earnese, but the number I have never been able to discover.
||| In both these houses he lived with his wife, the beautiful Lorenza
| (i Feliciani, after their return from Paris, where they were engaged in the
|) | notorious intrigue of the diamond necklace, and it was in the latter of
II i these houses that they were arrested, to be imprisoned in the Castle St.
j | i Angelo.
|)| Mallet—Apropos of Cagliostro’s magic, there is a curious and little
||| known legend about a gate in Rome, just beyond the Church of St.
| (| Maria Maggiore. Here, as the story goes, a celebrated alchemist and
| i | magician was invited to stay by the owner of the house or villa, who
j 11 hoped to obtain some advantage to himself from his skill in the magical
| j | sciences; but the magician, after long enjoying his hospitality, and
| j.i making no return for it, suddenly took French leave, leaving behind
11 j him a paper, on which were written certain cabalistic signs. These were
! j I inscribed by the owner over the gate, in a half faith that they might be
11 efficacious in bringing him the good fortune he desired, and there they
11 j may be seen to this day, or rather they were to be seen there when I
j j last passed that way. But so many changes are taking place in that
| j | quarter, that it is possible they may have been removed. Reumont tells
j i this story, I believe, in his book on Rome, and “ «e non e vero, e ben
|(j trovato.”
|)| Belton—Have you ever looked up the subject of magic?
||i Mallet—Yes; a good deal, and very curious is the literature on this
jjj subject. Some of the old writers give you, for instance, complete for-
|)| mulas to raise spirits of various kinds, and seem to have had an abso-
II j lute belief in their efficacy. It seems to be pretty clear that they did
| | have faith in these invocations; for it is impossible to believe that such
) men as Cardanus and Cornelius Agrippa, Aibertus Magnus, Johannes
I i Bodinus, Pietro Abana, Hieronymus Fracastorius, Torreblanca, Debris,
|j| Pomponatus, and Yarius, and men of that stamp, should have wilfully
| | endeavoured to palm off on the world, with such calm seriousness,
!|i statements which they knew to be lies. At all events, they clearly
( profess their faith in the power of man, by magical processes, to raise
| | the dead, and make spirits by incantation, and various receipts are
j 11 given by them to effect such purposes.
I j i Belton—I suppose that at the present day no one would believe in
j) i this. These men flourished in ignorant ages, when science was in its
i|i infancy, and when superstition was at its height ?
|)l Mallet—You are very much mistaken if you believe that the day of
i) j the magicians is entirely past. The magical art is still cultivated, though
III in secrecy, and there are numbers of persons who still study it, practise
1)1 it, and have faith in it. So, at least, I have been assured by men
j) i on whom I cannot but place trust, and who have declared to me that
j|! they themselves have attended magical seances, and employed the
HI formulas of the magical books with successful results. Certain it is that
' the Abbe Constant devoted himself to the study of the magical arts and
352
THE SPIRITUALIST. July 28, 1876.
occult sciences, and under the pseudonym of Elephas Levi, wrote some if
remarkable books on the subject, and specially one on “-£« Haute jt
Magie" which I recommend to you, if you are curious in such matters, i >
There is no doubt, too, that a few persons were and are his disciples and i f
pupils in France, and among them may be mentioned Desbarolles, the i (
author of Le$ Mysteres de la Main.” I must confess, however, that |I
after reading “ La Haute Magie” I was not very much enlightened on |(
the subject. A great deal was hinted and insinuated, and vaguely indi- | (!
cated, but comparatively little directly taught either as to the theory or j /
the practice of magic. * A very accomplished and distinguished writer j (
who lately died, assured me that he himself, on one occasion, by follow- i (
ing certain prescribed formulas, evoked one of the spirits held by those | j
who believed to be very dangerous—understand me, not by means of j j
any medium, but by his own practice ; and that he satisfied himself by j v
this and other experiments that the prescribed processes were not by j |
any means delusions, or follies. This same gentleman also told me, j f
when I made a remark similar to yours, that I supposed no one in the i (
present day believed in magical arts, that, on the contrary, he knew j \
many who studied it, and believed in it. “ Che volete," as the Italians | (
say. You may make out of this what you choose; I merely repeat j j
what I have been told.
* # # * # # * # !>
Mallet—As for the spirits, they are said to come up at tables by the j
late processes of incantation. They are, generally, so badly educated, | >
and speak such bad grammar, that I don’t care for their company. I !
could stand any amount of bad grammar if they would only tell me j (
something that we all of us do not know, and that we desire to know. I jj
To rap out by tedious processes feeble commonplaces of morality, and i (I
tawdry statements of future existence, which correspond solely to the H )!
vulgarest notions, or to advise us as to our conduct in copy-book j ||
phrases of evil communications corrupting good manners, does not pay. j (i
If what they said were really worth saying I would endure even the |
tediousness of their methods; but I cannot see that they have added to j
our literature anything very valuable. Shakespeare has so terribly I (1
degenerated at the table that I feel sorry to see that he has lost his mind \%
in losing his body. j |
beiton—But you have had strange experiences, have you not? j
Mallet—Very strange experiences, which I cannot explain, to my j i
satisfaction, at least. But ail that were of any note were physical and ! j
material results ; and I do not accept any spiritual explanation of them. | (|;
But don’t let us talk about them now. They bore me, and they wouldn’t j )jL
amuse you. i h
Belton—You seem to consider the fact of the utter triviality of all I (j
that is written and rapped at tables to be sufficient proof that it does m
not come from spirits. I agree with you in thinking that their utter- MU
ances are not from the so-called spiritual world ; but I do not see why i (i'
we should expect spirits out of the body to have more intelligence than | [j
spirits in the body. We have no reason to think so. We know abso- i h
lately nothing in respect to the changes which take place after death. I (j
It may be that pure and refined spirits, freed from the body, ascend to ! /[:
higher existence, but in that case it is difficult to imagine that such jUi
spirits would return to rap out foolish statements at tables. But, on ||S
the other hand, there are many low, mean, contemptible spirits dwelling \\l:
here in the flesh, to whom the body may lend apparent respectability, Hi
and, stripped of this garment which conceals their inanity of intellect |(|
and baseness of desires, they may fall in the scale of being, even below i (it]
what they seemed here. . Such spirits—of the earth earthy—would long i (i
for the gratifications of the sense and the flesh, and might be supposed I [|;
to haunt the earth to which their desires cling, and grasp at any means | H
of communication with it. Their heaven would be the heaven of the (|
senses, and of the life they had lost, and one would naturally expect !|l
from them lies, hypocrisies, and deceit of every kind. Freed from the ■ u
body, the naked spirit would be what it desired—the high and pure of |\|
aspiration would therefore ascend to loftier planes of existence, the ]j|
mean and base might descend even to lower. I only suggest this i (j
answer to any argument against spiritual communications founded upon j (|
their triviality, feebleness, and absurdity, Let us clear our minds of hi
distinctions between human beings and spirits ; all our communications ! (i
are spiritual. It is two spirits who talk together—not two bodies—here j (;
on earth. We have no warrant for the belief that the instant the spirit i >j
is freed from the body it necessarily leaves the earth—whatever be its i H
condition—and becomes at once purified and beyond its influences. It | )|
may be or it may not be’; but it is certainly a possible supposition that hi
they whose whole happiness, while here, has been in the joys of the j (i;
body, and whose desires have been mean and depraved, may only con- |il|
tiuue to be possessed by the same desires, and long to regain the body i (i
through which they obtained their gratification. i (I
Mallet—It never struck me before in this light, but it certainly is an j ) ■
intelligible theory, whether it be correct or not. I (i:
More authenticated cases have been sent to us from Newcastle, of
persons with amputated legs feeling pains in their feet. This does not
prove that sensitive spirit feet are there, but that anything which
slightly irritates the ends of the severed nerves, causes them to send
the same sensations to the brain that they did before the feet were
cut off.
Miss KisLiNGBtjRy, secretary to the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, leaves London to morrow (Saturday) for Wimille, where she will
spend some time on a visit to Miss Anna Blackwell, before proceeding to
Paris. Miss Kislingbury will also visit Prince Emile von Wittgenstein,
at Valery en Caux, on the coast of Normandy.
* Since writing this, we have seen the death of the Abbe Constant an¬
nounced in the Paris journals.
DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP AND ENGLISH MEN OF
SCIENCE.
BY CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY.
Doubtless many demands will be made on your space by
accounts of the wonderful and convincing mediumship of Dr.
Slade. I am not going to add to your editorial embarras de
rickesse by a detailed report of the seance Mr. Hood and I had
with him this morning, and which comprised mostof the mani¬
festations already recorded of this medium in The Spiritualist,
One fact, however, I should like to mention, as it appears to
have an importance which your scientific readers may be able
to appreciate. The slate being held beneath the table by
Dr. Slade and Mr. Hood, as long as Dr. Slade’s other hand
rested on mine, and I held Mr. Hood’s other hand, the
writing proceeded rapidly; but as often as Dr. Slade raised
his hand from mine (thus breaking the circuit) it suddenly
ceased. This experiment was several times repeated. I am
sorry it did not occur to us to try if the same effect would
be produced by Mr. Hood and myself disengaging hands, but
the omission can be easily supplied by other investigators.
I remember being much struck by a similar analogy to the
passage, or rather the production, of an electric current at one
of Horatio Eddy’s light circles. It was customary to call
one or more of the spectators to sit beside the medium in
front of the curtain behind which the physical phenomena
took place. On one occasion the chain was lengthened by
the successive addition of one, two, three and four human
links without anything occurring, when at last Horatio
reluctantly consented to a lady coming up, whom he had
hitherto rejected upon some theory of11 positive ” or “ nega¬
tive,” and no sooner had she taken her seat than the usual
tumult of instruments behind the curtains instantly broke
forth. At dark circles I have frequently asked mediums,
and otherwise endeavoured to ascertain whether joining
hands had any effect on the manifestations, but the general
opinion appeared to be that it w7as of no importance, except
as a mutual insurance against trickery.
I think that we should avail ourselves, in the cause of
Spiritualism, to the utmost of the exceptional opportunity
afforded by this visit of Dr. Slade. We have among us a
medium whose extraordinary powers enable him to dispense
with the conditions which not unnaturally indispose men
of science, busy with their ordinary researches, to enter
upon an investigation which, under those usual conditions,
it must be admitted, would require close and patient atten¬
tion and prolonged perseverance even to verify, beyond a
doubt, the existence of an occult force. Dr. Slade can only
spare us two months, and they are the worst two months of
the year in London. But let us make the most of them.
It is certain that the men whose avowed convictions would
make Spiritualism, or at least the most obvious and objective
of the facts on which Spiritualists rely, an unacknowledged
truth in England, will not go to Dr. Slade, will not even
hear of Dr. Slade, unless they are informed and invited. I
hear many of your readers exclaim, “ Oh, we are sick of
courting science; let her, or rather her self-sufficient pro¬
fessors, come to us if, and when they choose; but we will
not drag Spiritualism any longer in the dirt by going, cap
in hand, to men who treat us with insolence, and our facts
with ignorant and prejudiced contempt.” But with all
respect, it seems to me that there is in this more of temper
than wisdom. When before, in our appeals to science, have
we been able to divest our phenomena of conditions prima
facie in the highest degree suspicious, and which are con¬
fessedly very often abused by even genuine mediums ? And
as to the prejudice, I doubt whether we do not overrate it.
I am simple enough to believe that if Dr. Carpenter or Pro¬
fessor Tyndall had been in my place this morning, and had
witnessed what I witnessed we .should no more hear of
Spiritualism being a “ degrading superstition” from the one,
or of its being all If unconscious cerebration” from the other.
And others there are who at present agree with these whom
I can credit sufficiently with magnanimity and pure devotion
to truth to believe that their recantation would not be silent.
Magnanimity and pure devotion to truth I Why it would
be merely a question of common honesty, and are we to
deny this quality to some of the most highly trained and
accomplished intellects of the age? Let us at all events
853
July 28, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
give them a trial. It must be remembered that phenomena ||
witnessed in a good light have a power of irresistible con- j(
viction such as belongs to no tests, however really conclusive, |)
when the medium is out of sight. You may tie, sew, en-
close the medium in a bag, and all you will get your de- ||
termined sceptic to admit is, “ I don’t know how it is done j)
but let him see motion without contact, and satisfy himself K
by examination in the light that every suggestion of |
machinery, wires, and electric apparatus is . preposterous, j;
then, if he is not a consciously dishonest person, he ||
admit the existence of a force of which he had no previous j?
conception. And do not let us affect indifference to scientific jj
opinion. Our opponents often speak sneeringly of Crookes
and Wallace and Yarley as “ great cards” in the hands of \l
the Spiritualists. Well, so they are; and I have often ji
found the mention of these names, in conversation with K
angry and impatient deriders of Spiritualism, to produce !/
somewhat the same effect as the application of an irritant
to an exposed nerve. As a Spiritualist I should like to hold K
a few more such trumps in my hand. The small wits of the |?
press and of society are nowhere if they cannot represent j)
Spiritualists as a half-educated, credulous class, ignorant of K
what constitutes evidence of the sources of fallacy, and of |)
the conditions of scientific verification. j|
I submit that we have a clear duty to perform in this jt
matter. We are the trustees of a truth which has come to us, !)
no doubt, in a lowly and not very beautiful, not very K
dignified aspect—spiritual, certainly, but in its manifesta- |j
tion on the frontier line of the material. Nevertheless, it is |)
the best the age deserves or can perceive. The people who j(
laugh at us for proving an unseen universe by levitated u
tables and capsized chairs should look into their own minds 1
and say of what other proof this, which doubtless should be !(
a self-evident fact, is in them susceptible. They can no ||
longer perceive the spiritual, but they can be made to infer jj
it. The higher Spiritualism is caviare to the million. |<
Priests and philosophers have lost the secret. The specu- jj
lative result is Materialism, the system which mistakes the jj
merely phenomenal—Matter—for the only real, which j
denies the soul, the spiritual body, and the future life, jj
The practical result, I firmly . believe, if it is suffered to j
develope, will be the most terrible and noisome decomposi- !
tion of all moral and social life which the world has ever j
experienced. An exposition of the grounds of this belief j
would lead me too far from my subject. To the few jj
rrveviiaTLKot, who are left among us, phenomenal Spirit- jj
ualism, I can well conceive,, may be a trivial and unih- j
teresting thing—exoteric, not without its dangers ; not jj
without its repulsive side. But it is the rough and heavy j
weapon which has been put into our hands, and which is j
well adapted to beat back the encroachments of the stupid j
and malign monster Materialism. And now is the moment |j
to strike with it. There is little danger of its failing us. jj
Dr. Slade is, for a medium so exceptionally constituted jj
that he has, as he assured me, no fear that the presence of jv
a sceptical investigator, however prejudiced, will interdict jj
the manifestations. It almost certainly will not if , he does j
not allow his equanimity to be disturbed. What I would jj
suggest is that every Spiritualist who has acquaintances jj
among the scientific, literary, or scholastic world should jj
take the trouble, not shrinking from possible rebuff, j
to bring to the knowledge of influential persons the jj
fact that there is now an opportunity of witnessing jj
the phenomena in their most unequivocal without j<
darkness, and without the presence of possible confederates, jj
1. would further suggest that a fund should be raised to jj
defray Dr. Slade’s charges for seances, for which free tickets jj
of admission should be presented to fellows of the Royal jj
Society, or other persons of acknowledged distinction, who jj
may express their willingness to avail themselves of them, jj
I am informed that something in this direction has already jj
been done by the untiring liberality and ' devotion to jj
Spiritualism of Mr. Blackburn. Let us bring these scientific jj
horses to the water anyhow. If they won’t drink it is not |
our fault. It is, perhaps, very weak of me to believe that j]
ocular demonstration is, after all, Stronger than prejudice, !
and if any intelligent and honest person is heard to pooh j!
pooh the facts after witnessing what; I witnessed this morn- j
ing I promise to hide my diminished head, and to subside, a
sadder and wiser man.
I would *also suggest that a short circular, describing the
phenomena, . and the conditions under which they are
obtained with Dr. Slade, verified by the names (with ad¬
dresses and occupations) of those who have witnessed them,
should be printed, and copies widely circulated among the
classes to which I have referred.
Temple, July 22nd.
MUSICAL INSPIRATION.
Music and poetry have long been recognised by Spiritualists as the
results of the highest kind of inspiration, yet it is generally acknow¬
ledged that in civilised countries music has gradually so fallen within
the grip of trade and vested interests, that there is a great tendency to
crush it as an art. Mrs. Weldon has long fought against this state of
things, so as to draw down upon herself the antagonism of the whole
trade, and at her concert in St. James’s Hall last week, she thus dis¬
burdened herself of some of her opinions, in an address which she
circulated in print among the listeners :—
“ Ladies and Gentlemen,—Had I the courage I would speak to you
all to-night, and tell you and make you feel much better than I can in
writing what is in my heart, and what I appeal to you all to help me
to do.
“ My work has been cut out for me; my mission has devolved upon
me without my seeking it, or in any way from any feeling of wanting
occupation or interests away from my happy home. It is eight years
ago since I awakened to the fact that God had given me a great gift—
perhaps the greatest of all—the gift of imparting to others that which He
had given me. Not only so, but I feel that, as I give, so God gives me
yet more ; and I am urged by an irresistible impulse to want to give to
yet more human beings than I do now that which is so bountifully
bestowed upon me.
“ It is you who can help me to do this; you, the public—you, the
mass—you, the great throbbing truthful heart ot humanity—you, the
people, whose voice is the voice of God—you, the people, who, as a
mass, know neither jealousy, envy, nor intrigue—who scorn all petty
feeling, and who always call out for fair play. To you I appeal—the
friendly, good-natured, good-tempered, generous English public. I ask
you to trust me with that money which will enable me to add effectually
to the number of orphans which my own fortune enables me to adopt,
and which I wish to increase to that of fifty. With that which is my
own I now maintain twenty-two human beings.
“ These children, who 1 would sooner drown than bring up as profes¬
sional musicians, are, nevertheless, trained by me from the cradle to
hear sweet, rhythmical, and harmonious sounds. They must, therefore,
inevitably be and become musicians. Little Katie, baby as she now is,
would, three months ago, go to the piano and not thump discords—she
would hum little tunes that she had heard once or twice; she now goes
to the piano and picks out and plays little tunes she is in the habit of
hearing. The children are steeped in music, and this condition is, I
am convinced, attended with the happiest results. They are pro¬
nounced, by servant's and all who know them, uncommonly good
children; even as regards their health, they seem to be favoured.
Their education in other respects is not neglected; they all know
their alphabet in three languages; they learn to write, they know their
figures, they play at dominoes; and, as I teach them entirely myself, I
can answer for their knowing and observing many things to which chil¬
dren’s attention is not usually drawn. I could, however, teach titty,
according to my system, as easily as I teach a few; and it is because I
know how effectively I could benefit many a homeless child, which, in
its turn, will, with God’s blessing, become a useful and devoted member
of society, that I have struggled to force myself out of my old quiet and
retiring nature, and to come before the public to ask it to give me that
which I require.
“ I am constrained thus personally to address myself to the public,
because it is my only chance of making myself, my wants, or my work
known.
“ When about seven years ago I began to sing in public, one of my
oldest friends, who holds one of the most influential posiuons in the
musical profession, told me that, if I wanted to get on, I must get round
one of the most important musical critics, and that the way to do this
was to send him a cask of sherry, after having first asked him to come
and dine, and to taste mine, which must be supposed to be in my
cellar!
“ I did not send the sherry, and I never have got on. On the con¬
trary, it so happened that every kind of intrigue was used to prevent me
getting on. I will go no further back than my last concert, given on
June 17th. I will refer the public to the very advertisements in the
Daily Telegraph, &c., which were systematically displayed as low down
as possible in the column, even on the day itself, and below entertain¬
ments which were to come off as late as the 28th June. I will also
refer the public to the daily newspapers the next day, and of that same
week ; the public will find that not a single newspaper report appeared
in any one of them. The Athenceum, the Spiritualist, the Drawing-
Room Gazette, the Hornet, and I believe two or three other weekly
newspapers, favourably noticed the concert.
“ It was in itself, ^perhaps, the most important one of the season, for
it brought out new works by M. Gounod, the composer of Faust, besides
his incidental music to the drama of Jeanne d'Arc, which had never
before been played during the season in London; a new work by Mr.
354
THU SPIBtTUALtST.
tfuLY 28, 1876.
Hamilton Clarke, music composed by my youthful pupil, Alfred Raw- | )\
lings; and, finally, works of some importance, extremely well received m
and much admired by the public present, composed by Mr. John Urich, j u
a young English composer, whose music was then performed in public |>|
for the first time. wj
“This silence, as they did not dare abuse the music performed or j(|
myself, has been resorted to by Mr.  , Mr. ■ —, and by the rest i)i
of the tribe who follow all the more or less in their wake, because I, i (!
instead of plying these gentlemen with sherry wine, cakes, or buns, jv!
gave them what they did not expect, what they are not used to get, I/]
and what they did not like. They got from me a book called Musical j fl
Reform, and The Quarrel of the Royal Albert Hall. With a good steel j Vj
pen, in black and white, I answered the press gentlemen’s anonymous j)j
falsehoods, inventions, and insinuations—I gave them as good as they j (j
gave me. It was even better than that, for whereas they could only | j |
attack me from behind a wall, and under the shield of their anonyma, | )|
I defended myself by attacking them by name, in the open field, and j <j
all I wrote was signed by my own name. Truth was my shield, and it j j
served me so well that, although I laid myself open to that friend of ijl
evil-doers, the law of libel, it was thought wisest to leave me alone. j\
Why, I have behind me the whole choir, the whole orchestra—they {)]
wish others would serve them as I do. They know the bitterness of i (!
the musical profession. I am a woman, and all alone to do it, and I j m
have no one who will openly help me. I have but the words ever ring- j)
ing in my ears, 1 My house shall be called the house of prayer, but ye j (
have made it a den of thieves.’ Does the public know that the musical j i j
criticisms of a newspaper are in the hands of one man, and that if one ;
of those men considers himself offended, the esprit de corps is so strong i (j
that the whole rookery league themselves together against you? Is !)}
the public aware that a woman must accept any coarse familiarity any i)i
one of these men may choose to impose upon her as the price of her is!
getting on?—that there is no way to escape from this tyranny ?—that i)!
the proprietor, that the editor of a newspaper has no power over the i(j
musical department, no right to interfere ? Does the public know this j U
when it looks for musical criticisms ? |; |
“Ladies and Gentlemen, I have never known what it was to starve ; Hi
I have not known what it feels like to want anything; I have not j!
too many adopted children, and I do not see them want for anything, j/j
Had I had to go through what others must, I might not have been so M
courageous; I might not have been so conscientious. I have been |||
born in a position above that of professional singers ; I have by nature j j i
a remarkably independent character, and one singularly indifferent to i(i
praise or blame. Had I longed for praise or popularity I should not j j
have acted as I have—I should not have written either Musical Hj
Reform or The Quarrel of the Royal Albert Hall Company. But I jj
have written them, and I have not a word to retract or a line to be i jj
sorry for. It is the truth ! Messrs. Yon Biilow and Rubinstein have j (|
returned to England since I wrote those books, and whereas they were, j j J
a few years ago, killed by the musical critics, they have, since then, |jj
reaped the triumphs they so well deserved, which the public, who only j (j
sees through the columns of the newspapers, was unable to give them, j jj
but which ihey just as well deserved then as now. .... Dear public, j jj
trust, therefore, not to musical criticism; use your own unbiassed j(j
judgment, which would be unerring did you but take the trouble to j j
use it, and help me to form the voices of the future.
“I herewith publish a list of the sums of money I have had given to j jj
me for my school since I first began to teach. I shall, in future, pub- j jj
lish a report every year.
“ As all the children are likely some day to hold a good and promi- j jj
nent position in the world, and as I bring them up as my own, I feel j jl
sure the public will have the delicacy to wish that I should not appeal j jj
to their feelings or love of sensation by in any way giving any account j ji
of who they are or where they come from. Suffice it to say that I am j jj
the only friend they have. Georgina Weldon. jjj
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, 19th July, 1867. jjj
His Imperial Highness Prince Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, has jjj
accepted the honorary membership of the British National Association jjj
of Spiritualists. jjj
During the next four weeks, while Miss Kislingbury is travelling on j ji
the Continent, letters on the business of the National Association of jjj
Spiritualists will have to he sent after her, consequently there will be jjj
about a week’s delay in obtaining replies, there being now no honorary jjj
secretary, as in past times, to assist her in her work. During the first I jj
fortnight of her absence Mrs. Carter Blake has kindly consented to look jjj
after the Reading Room, and during the next two weeks the establish- jjj
ment of the National Association at Great Russell-street will be closed ijj
altogether. j j j
Spiritual Phenomena in South Africa,—The Cape Times, of May j j j
80th, contains a long letter on spiritual phenomena, in the course of jjj
which the writer says;—“Some two months since, in a lighted room, iji
with six others besides myself, I asked the control to try to raise the jjj
table if we all took our hands off. One of the sitters, who is a physical jjj
medium, immediately became controlled, and commenced rubbing the j(i
table violently with the palms of his hands. After twenty or thirty seconds j j j
he took his hands entirely off the table and moved away some two or jjj
three feet. The table now began to oscillate, then to rock like a ship jji
rolling. I must remark that whilst this was going on two others of the ; j j
circle became entranced, and began gesticulating in a curious manner, jjj
as if taking some part in the performance of the table. I now asked the jjj
control, if possible, to move it entirely off the ground, when immedi- jjj
ately the table (four feet by two feet, four legs) rose about afoot, first jjl
on one side and then on the other, very much like a beam balanced on jjj
some invisible support. The table apparently made most strenuous ijj
efforts to raise its four legs simultaneously into the air, but owing to j j
want of power it did not succeed.’’ ijj
THE TESTIMONIAL TO ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
A committee has been formed in America for the presen¬
tation of a testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis, f* the
Poughkeepsie Seer,” for his long and incessant labours for
the good of Spiritualism. The writings of Andrew Jackson
Davis, many of which were given in the trance state, in a
state of spiritual illumination, have done very much to pro¬
mote beneficial social reforms and freedom of religious
thought; they have circulated extensively among Spirit¬
ualists wherever the English language is spoken, and are
well known in England. In some respects, especially where
they deal with physics, they are not free from error, but sur¬
veyed in their broadest aspect they have undoubtedly ful¬
filled a most useful purpose in the world. The many works
he has issued have not been of a profitable nature to himself,
and the present well-deserved testimonial is calculated to
relieve him from many anxieties. Mr. Martheze takes a
warm interest in the matter, and thinks that English
Spiritualists who have participated in the benefits derived
from the writings of Andrew Jackson Davis, should take
part in the testimonial, and we hope that there will be a
good response to his call. Mr. Martheze has sent the fol¬
lowing letter to several ladies and gentlemen, who he thinks
might desire to form an English committee to work in
unison with the one already established in America :—
u Dear Sir,—Will you kindly inform me if you will lend
your name and influence, and make one of a committee for
collecting funds in England for the testimonial in favour of
Andrew Jackson Davis, who by his works has laid one of
the foundation stones of Spiritualism. It is true that he is
an American, but through Spiritualism his name belongs to
the world at large, and I, for one, feel that it would not be
to the honour of Spiritualists to allow one so deservedly
famous to suffer neglect at their hands.
“ J. N. Tiedeman Martheze.
“ 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton, July 11th, 1876.”
STRONG PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS WITH DR. SLADE.
BY EMILY KISLINGBURY.
In the course of a ten minutes’ sitting with Dr. Slade this
evening, I saw and heard wonders enough to fill a lifetime.
The room, in which I sat alone with Dr. Slade, was bril¬
liantly lighted, and the table at which we placed ourselves
was bare. I had my feet under the table, but Dr. Slade sat
sideways on my left, so that both his feet were seen by me
throughout the seance. First came thundering raps under
all parts of the table, causing me to start in my chair,
though I am pretty well used to strong physical manifes¬
tations. Then a hand plucked at my right knee, and pulled
my dress with great force, on the side furthest from the
medium, whose hands were during that time both placed
upon mine on the table. Then came the slate-writing in
all sorts of ways, as already described in your last number.
On one occasion the slate passed from the medium’s hand
under the table, and came up at the further corner, then
vanished and returned to Dr. Slade’s hand.
On a double slate, between the folds of which a crumb of
pencil was laid, the following was written :—
F Dear Friend,—When will people understand this truth ? We
have been working so many years to impress unbelievers of the im¬
portance of this glorious Gospel, but they will not be impressed with
the truth, but look for tricks and fraud. The more we do, the more
they will cry humbug. We hope the day is not far away when they
will learn to look upon,mediums and believers as honest people.
Stand by the mediums, as they are in want of sympathy and encourage¬
ment. You have many good mediums in your city, but they are dis¬
couraged by the unbelievers.—I am, truly your friend, A. W. Slade.
While this message was being written, Dr. Slade several
times removed his hands from mine, and the moment he
did so the writing ceased, and was only resumed when he
again placed both hands upon mine.
At the beginning of the seance a chair at the further
corner of the table rose in the air as far as the table would
allow, and then fell backwards with great force into the fire¬
place. During the slate-writing I said, (i I wonder whether
that chair could be picked up again.” The writing over, the
chair was quickly raised and restored to its former place. I
was also lifted in my chair several inches from the floor, and
feT 28, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 855
dropped down again with a bang. Fingers played upon my |
hand, while I held the slate for a moment under the table. !
Dr. Slade held the under side of an accordion with one !
hand beneath the table, and the tune known as “ Gentle !
Annie” was played quite correctly. j
What struck me most was the rapidity with which one j
manifestation followed another, and the amount of force 1
which, if represented by muscle, must have been at least jj
equal to that of a prize-fighter.
What is here written can give but a very faint idea of the |J
power which, with shock upon shock, seemed to thrill <
through the room, the table, the medium, and myself.
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
PROPOSED FORMATION OF A CHOIR.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne), whose exceptional talents j
as a musical artiste some of the readers of this journal !
have lately had the opportunity of knowing for them- j
selves, is about to form a choir of ladies and gentlemen, j
among whom it is hoped will be a large proportion of |
Spiritualists, to meet for practice three or four times a j
week at her own house, in Tavistock-square. Mrs. Weldon !
is specially qualified to undertake work of this kind. Although j!
it is not generally known, she was the main-spring of the |J
Gounod choir; it was she who held a class of ladies every j
morning, and who led the rehearsals in connection with i
that body of musicians who soon—according to the press of j
that day—surpassed every other choir. Sixteen years ago !
Mrs. Weldon was in Canada, at the time of the talk of a !
war between America and England over the Trent affair; she j
then drilled in singing a body of volunteers and amateurs i
near Montreal, and gave concerts, which raised a considerable |
amount of the sinews of war in the shape of funds. More |
recently she did much to keep up the volunteer movement |
in the Island of Anglesea, by means of concerts, which she i
drilled the said volunteers to give. They all appeared in i
uniform in the choir. At the present time Mrs. Weldon i
has a very good pianist, Madame Paul Jullien, who teaches !
classes, and who could act as accompanist. Those who |
desire to aid both themselves, and in some degree the j
spiritual movement, by taking advantage of the superior j
facilities now freely offered by Mrs. Weldon, are requested ij
to communicate with her immediately, by letter only, before . 1
a personal interview is arranged, at Tavistock House, j!
Tavistock-square, Bloomsbury, W.C.
SEANCES WITH DR. SLADE.
Since Dr. Slade’s arrival in England he has been well j
occupied, and there is an increasing demand for seances with |
him.
On Friday, last week, two literary gentlemen connected |
with one of the chief London daily papers had a seance at j!
his rooms. Dr. Slade states that in broad daylight a table
ran to them from one corner of the room, without being i
touched by anybody; and that several other interesting j!
manifestations took place." A piece of pencil, about the size j;
of a grain of wheat, was in their presence placed between |
two clean slates, and wrote the following message, which I
perhaps some of the readers of this journal in Wiesbaden !
may be able to verify:—
Dear Friends, I am here to tell you I live, and please say the same to j
my friends. I am S. J. Sahel, Esq. I was an old man, over seventy.
I passed away about the loth, at Wiesbaden. I am in hopes this will
reach my friends. The better a man lives, the more he can enjoy this
life. I am S. J. Sahel, Esq.
What may be the meaning of a departed spirit putting j
“ Esq.” after his own name like this, we do not know, but !
perhaps some of his friends in Wiesbaden, supposing any j
should be discovered there, may be able to throw some light j]
upon the peculiarity.
Last Monday night Dr. Slade joined a dinner party at the jj
residence of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, jj
Grosvenor-square. Later in the evening Dr. Slade broke jj
through his usual rule of not sitting for more than two j
persons at a time, and tried to obtain manifestations in the j
presence of five, including a well-known literary peer, also j
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Bennett, Mrs. Hill, and j
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Loud raps came upon the table. A jj
crumb of pencil was placed upon a slate, which was then
j held by Dr. Slade under the flat leaf of the table with one
j hand; the pencil could be heard writing on the slate, upon
| which the following words were afterwards found: u God
j bless humanity in love and wisdom.—Allied Allie was the
! name of Dr. Slade’s departed wife. Afterwards it was
i written, “ The circle is too large”
Dr. Slade was then entranced, and said:—
Another morn, another day,
Have passed in golden light away;
The sun in glorious hues arrayed,
Gives place to summer’s evening shade.
j Our object in coming to you is to bring messages from heaven,
messages of sweet repose. We come with words of truth to expand
your minds and to be productive of good. We wish to bring you
happiness, to teach you how to enjoy your surroundings, to enjoy
life, to love and be loved. We come in the shade of evening to
bring unto you messages of love from the spheres above. Things are
not in order for experiments to-night, and the inquirer present should
j come to our medium’s residence to receive more perfect demonstra¬
tion of the fact of immortality. God intended His children to know
these facts, which can be demonstrated more readily when men learn
j I the conditions which held good in apostolic times; since then people
I have grown less spiritual, and have changed the conditions. Give us
i the same conditions, the same sympathy, the same desire for com¬
munion with us, and we shall be able to impart something to you
of love and wisdom from above.
j Even now thy loved one stands by thee overflowing with joy and
j gratitude, but he can only speak to thee occasionally in whispers of
j love. There is great harmony here, but the circle is too large for good
manifestations.
Thy soul grows brighter day by day,
And soon will leave this coil of clay,
Which hides.its brilliant golden glow—
The form of earth must rest below;
Dust to dust, earth to earth,
Life is death, and death is birth.
j Mr. Algernon Joy returned to London from the Continent last
j . Saturday.
The Marriage oe Mr. Dale Owen.—The following notice of the
! marriage of Mr. Dale Owen, from the New York Daily Telegram, has
been forwarded to us by him:—“We learn from our correspondent at
Lake George that Mr. Robert Dale Owen was married there yesterday,
the 23rd inst., by the Rev. S. Huntingdon, of Caldwell, to Lottie
j Walton, daughter of the late Martin A. Kellogg, of Hartford, Conn.,
j and granddaughter of the Rev. Bela Kellogg, who, for more than thirty
years, was pastor of the Congregational Church at Avon, near Hartford.
The lady is a cultivated artist, of middle age, who has travelled and
resided many years in Europe, and studied her profession in Rome. It
!! was to her that Mr. Owen, two years ago, dedicated his autobiography
j j as ‘ to a dear friend at whose pleasant home on Lake George part of
i j these pages were written.’ This ‘ pleasant home,’ which was built
' | some years since by Miss Kellogg, is situated on a headland, embowered
11 in trees, on one of the most romantic nooks on the eastern shore of the
lake, and will be the summer residence of Mrs. and Mr. Owen, whom we
j may henceforth count as a citizen of New York.”
j Library of the National Association of Spiritualists.—The Rev
W, Whitear, who has already presented many valuable works to the
library of the National Association, has lately enriched the collection
by a munificent gift, consisting of the following forty-five volumes
Atkinson and Martineau’s Letters on the Laios of Man's Nature and
! Development; C. Bray’s Education of the Feelings; Darwin’s Descent
j of Man, 2 vols.; Sir W. R. Grove’s Correlation and Continuity; Sir J.
I Herschel’s Familiar Lectures on Scientific Subjects; Hurlbut’s Human
I Rights and their Political Guaranties ; Dr. Iron’s Bible and its Interpre-
j ters; Sir J. Lubbock’s Pre-historic Times; Macnaught’s Doctrine of
j Inspiration; A Country Parson’s Via Oatholica ; Samuelson’s Views of
the Deity; Professor Seeley’s Ecce Homo ; R. P. Ward’s Tremaine ; or
the Man of Refinement, 2 vols.; Aubrey’s Miscellanies, 1721; Beecher’s
Revieio of the Spiritual Manifestations; Bulstrode’s Essay of Transmi-
j gration, 1692; H. Christmas's Echoes of the Universe, from the World
of Matter and the World of Spirit; Mrs. Crowe’s Nightside of Nature,
j 2 vols.; ditto, new edition, 1 vol.; J. S. F.’s Demonologia; an Expose
j of Ancient and Modem Superstitions; A. de Morgan’s Budget of Para¬
doxes ; Edinburgh Revieio for October, 1865 ; Judge Edmond’s Spiritual
Tracts (an early edition); Dr. Bence Jones’s Life of Faraday, 3 vols.;
Folk Lore, choice Notes from Notes and Queries ; J. Goule’s Select Cases
S of Conscience touching Witches and Witchcraft, 1646; Glanvil’s Saddu-
| cismus Triumphatus, 1726; Godwin’s Lives of the Necromancers ; R. L.
j Hawker’s Footprints of former Men in Cornwall (the Botatheii Ghost) ;
The Hive; a Collection of Essays and Narratives; A. Kardec’s Book on
Mediums (Mrs. Wood’s translation) ; Sir C. Lyell’s Antiquity of Man ;
j Asa Mahan’s Modern Mysteries Explained and Exposed; Mitchell and
Dickie’s Philosophy of Witchcraft; A Hampshire Ghost Story (from the
Gentleman’s Magazine); Southey’s Life of Wesley ; Stewart and Tait’s
Unseen Universe; Tryon’s Treatise of Dreams and Visions, 1695;
Tyndall’s Fragments of Science, and Address at Belfast; J. C. Young’s
j , Memoir of C. M. Young ; and Zerffi’s Spiritualism and Animal Magne¬
tism.
356
THE SPIE ITU A LIST.
July 28, 1876.
(STflmgponiinue.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers."]
HOME EXPERIMENTS UPON THOUGHT-INFLUENCE.
Sir,—Some of your readers may be able to give a satisfactory solution
of what seems to me to be a species of thought-influence. I will state
in a few words what I saw performed as pastime the other evening.
Anyone may try the experiment for himself in the family circle. The
modus operandi is as follows:—
In the absence of the person who is to act as diviner, some small
object is to be hidden. The rest of the company are then to fix their
thoughts intently upon it, and, after the person has been recalled, two
of their number are to place their hands lightly round his neck, at the
shoulders, so that their thumbs and fingers meet as in table-turning,
taking care not to exert any pressure either to lead or mislead. The
diviner should then close his eyes and remain passive. Almost im¬
mediately he will feel impelled to move towards the concealed object,
and to stop when he arrives at the right place. Generally he will be
able to place his hand upon the article he is intended to find. I saw a
gentleman open the right compartment, out of twenty others, in an
inlaid work-box, at the first attempt. The experiment was tried re¬
peatedly by everyone present, including myself, and with only two
failures; but some seem to be able to go to the hidden object at once
without hesitation. G. F. G.
22nd July, 1876.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN ASHTON-UNDER-LYNE.
Sir,—On Sunday evening, July 16th, about twenty persons in Ashton-
under-Lyne formed a double circle, having first placed in the centre a
two-leaved table, with four legs, under which, on the floor, we placed
two bells. One was a small hand-bell, and the other a table bell,
which required the spring at the top to be pressed down to produce
a sound. We then fastened round the table legs a piece of thick
pilot cloth, which reached from the table top to the floor. Shortly
afterwards, while singing a hymn, the medium (Eli Schofield, from
Oldham), became controlled. The spirits then said through the medium
that they wanted something more than two bells to play with, therefore
we placed under the table two square tin canisters; these they knocked
about violently. They rung the bells, and when we were singing,
“ Shall we gather at the river,” they beat time to the tune with the
table bell, so loudly that it was heard by all present, above the sound
ef the singing. At the conclusion of the seance they pulled the medium’s
shoes—which were laced and tied—from off his feet. These things were
done in open daylight. The seance lasted about an hour and a half.
We, the undersigned, are witnesses to the truth of the foregoing
statements. M. Kenison.
Thos. Whitworth.
Wm. Avert.
. 28, Bentinck-street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
THE PRE-EXISTENCE OF THE SOUL.
Sir, —The believer in pre-existence has a short way of dealing with
the arguments of the Times newspaper against the reality of appari¬
tions. He alleges that, having pre-existed as a spirit, and experienced
hearing and seeing in that state, and feeling convinced that conse¬
quently the only reason why he can no longer enjoy or suffer through
these former powers, and in his former way, must arise from the in¬
cumbrance of the flesh; he comes to the logical conclusion therefrom
that whatever may deaden the prepotency of the flesh may reopen the
ancient sensibilities of the spirit; and he insists that this is a fair
presumption for any one to accept who believes that man is a being
gifted with a reasonable soul, as well as with a body of human flesh.
The believer in pre-existence further, while in perfect accord with
the Times that disordered health, by lowering the vitality of the flesh,
is favourable to the seeing of apparitions, entirely differs from the Times
when it alleges, as you show us in your numbers of May 12th and 19th,
that such visions are necessarily but “ subjective sensations,” and “ all
are perfectly explicable as natural phenomena ” produced by “ brain
change.” On the contrary, he believes that a vast number of those
sensations which the doctors and others put down to hallucination,
brain change, or what not, are really spiritual sensations—are, in fact,
some return to the spiritual life formerly experienced; and that ill
health or any other things, especially some narcotics, that deaden the
vitality of the flesh, are favourable to reopening the real spiritual sight
or hearing, whether in a pleasurable sense or otherwise.
In The Spiritualist of May 19 th two cases from the Times of alleged
hallucination are produced, both of which many Spiritualists would
attribute to temporary mediumsbip, and which the believer in pre¬
existence would put down to a glimpse of the spiritual life such as,
and in the way that, the patient must have experienced in an anterior
state ; which glimpse was superinduced by a temporary bodily infirmity
for the time being, lowering the flesh vitality, and, in consequence,
raising the spiritual life.
There is the case of “ an eminent hospital surgeon” who was subject
to seeing an apparition whenever there was interference with the free
flow of blood through the great vessels of the neck. We think that this
gentleman may, very probably, have been a medium during this tem¬
porary loss of vitality, and really had his spiritual eyes open for the
time, that is, during a temporary infirmity of the flesh his spiritual
powers regained some of their ancient attributes. We are likewise of
opinion that the clergyman also mentioned, who walked through the
spirit of an old woman dressed in a red cloak, was quite right to go
home and consult the doctor, if only to get rid, if he could, of the
Imediumship that had taken him so unawares; which mediumship is
not, in reality, always an agreeable visitant, though it may lift us into
the veritable regions of the coming ones, as well as into those of the
departed also. That intelligent and respected ecclesiastic might have
been walking for a fit of indigestion, which, being a bodily failing, is a
natural help to mediumship; and, with his well-known kindness of
heart, owing to the nervousness superinduced by seeing a child ill-
treated, he was probably placed for the time in the category of suffering
mediums (for mediums always bear a cross, often from spirits, and
always from the world); and he was really endowed, for the moment,
with a glimpse of the experience of the past and the future. It might
have been well, or otherwise, if he could have understood this ; but he
could not, for he was a wise man, as well as a prudent man, and these
things are mostly revealed—to whom shall we say ?—to the weak, the
bodily weak, but to those who are also endued with what the Times
calls “ the elementary principles of mental activity.” It is always the
“ correct ” thing to be led by the times; but this last in parenthesis.
If, I say, this clergyman had not been wise and prudent, he would have
been rewarded—for mediumship is not without some reward, it needs it
—he would have been rewarded by learning practically that those who
have passed from hence have sometimes still power to come back, if they
have hearts to feel for the oppressed left behind; and that these spirits
may be even seen by some who do not even seek them. Who knows ?
The spirit seen by this clergyman might have been a relation of the
persecuted child. What! a ghost in a black bonnet and a red cloak!
Why not? Shakespeare saw nothing foolish in showing that when the
ghost of Hamlet’s father was seen by the soldiers as well as by
Hamlet, and was, consequently, probably a materialisation, he was
then “in complete steel;” quite as appropriate to a soldier of that
period as is a red cloak to an old woman—I mean an old-
fashioned old woman. But when, Hamlet being a seeing medium, the
ghost was visible only to himself, and not to his mother, the ghost
was then attired in clothing appropriate to a lady’s chamber; “ My
father in his habit as he lived.” It may be here asked, what
has this to do with the pre-existence of the soul? Well, certainly,
the old woman in the red cloak had most to do with the pre-existence
of the flesh. But the clergyman, then in the flesh, though now dead,
what of him? He had then to do with the pre-existence of the soul.
How? Why, he had given his public adhesion to that doctrine by
acknowledging his belief in a book wherein the two chief personages
treated of in that book are represented as pre-existent. One as incar¬
nate on earth, though existing before Abraham, and the other as a re¬
incarnation of Elias. Now if, fin addition to the above belief, this
clergyman had been such a clerical philosophical anomaly also as to
believe that the laws of nature are general laws, he would have been
logically led to the conclusion that pre-existence, incarnation, and re¬
incarnation must be all under a general law, and consequently common
to all humanity, and that it would be the duty of such a supposititious
clergyman to promulgate such a logical conclusion with all due peremp¬
toriness and solemnity. M. A. (Cantab.)
THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—To resume this subject of education, to make it at all clear to
anyone else’s mind what is in mine, I must begin to argue from a point
at which I presume no one but myself has ever stood. I must state
my position; I must, in fact, rather appear to glorify myself. This is
a very awkward task to perform, because people being taught good
manners and hypocrisy to be above every earthly quality, are so ac¬
customed to play at false modesty, contradict with seeming humility any
compliment, real or empty, which may be uttered most unthinkingly by
w, a polite friend or acquaintance, that I presume should any man or
! I woman be found honest enough to say of their own accord that they
i j I were good looking and were clever, and thus put an end to searchers for
| i or fishers of flattery, they would be set down as ill-mannered, vulgar,
m and vain. Now, the first thing I shall crush in my adopted children is
j|j hypocrisy, or concealment, or “blarney” of any kind. Therefore, I
; j j begin by letting them know that I, their grannie, as they call me, am no
111 relation to them, that they are poor little children with no one to care
i | for them, and that God gave me to them. The very tiny ones (as they
|)| are too little to conceive in any way what God is, and that they ask
;<! me extremely inconvenient questions, to which I can but return
||| answers not wise enough to make them appreciate the wisdom
|)| or justice of God), are told that the fairies brought grannie as they
| j| bring everything. When I am cross-examined I account for anomalies
j j j in creation by explaining that there are tiresome fairies who did this or
|) | that while the good fairies were looking the other way. Thus I succeed
Mi in preventing their puzzling their little brains over such conversations
| j as the following :—‘ ‘ Grannie, did God make Hack beetles ?” What
i)l was I to say? “Yes, Tommy. Yes!” Grannie, black beetles are
j (| nasty things ?” “ Yes, Tommy !” “ Why does God make nasty things
||j “ I do not know, Tommy.” (Well, I do not know ; imagine, however,
fl! to the mind of a child, what mystery the infallible grannie pleading
Mi guilty to ignorance on a single living fact must have been.) “ Would
\ i! not God, grannie, be doing something much gooder if he were to unpick
rags to stuff poor little children's pillows as we do, instead of making
nasty things like black beetles V' I agreed with the child, thinking it
judicious (unpicking rags being the occupation I had discovered for
them), that they should all believe they were doing the most useful
thing in the world.
Therefore, to make my ideas on education very clear indeed, I begin
by laying down as a first principle that however young the child, it
cannot possibly have too clever, too attentive, too diplomatic, too inde¬
pendent a nurse. The nurse should be the first person in the house—a
refined, aesthetic, charming person, lovely in mind and thought, tender
to a degree, yet firmer still. A lady, independent in fortune as well as
in character. If the mother of the children be incapable of educating
JrrtiY 28, 1876.
THE SPIHiTUALIST.
857
them, either from want of capacity or will to do so, she must naturally Is!
keep them nearly all day with a nurse. In time she must take a nursery |)i
governess who mast undo all the nurse has taught. Then the child old i(!
enough, the mother must engage governesses, finishing governesses, j(!
masters, mistresses. As each person has a different individuality and })|
teaches quite differently, the child, who has been learning and unlearn- 1(1
ing all its life, possesses a patchwork mind, a patchwork conscience, a m
patchwork memory, and indulges in patchwork pursuits and occupations, !) I
We may from that infer that it will lead a patchwork existence, desul- !(i
tory, uninteresting, and useless. The only thing it is almost sure to h i
have, which will not be patchwork, will be its manners, its “ company |)|
voice,” and its “ company facemamma will have taken care of that! Kj
She will have inculcated that part of her child’s life’s performance into i)!
nurse, nursery governess, governess, finishing governess, &c., &c., &c. |n
11 Whatever his faults may be, after all he is a gentleman ! ” This is a K
speech I have frequently heard. Doubtless my readers have heard it I)
likewise. Being a “ gentleman,” being a “ lady,” covers, I have heard, k!
a multitude of faults! Georgina Weldon. K j
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London, July 22nd, 1876. j) j
clairvoyance. (
Sir,—Should these few lines meet Miss Fowler’s eye, I hope she will j);
kindly excuse the liberty which, though a comparative stranger to her, |(|
I take, in urging her claims upon those who may not as yet have paid m
her a personal visit, in order to put her clairvoyant powers to the test. I/!
Having heard of Miss Fowler’s extraordinary gifts, and her thorough ;(l
reliability as a medium, I was induced to travel many hundreds of miles i)l
in order to have a personal interview. I was at the time in a state of |)|
great mental anxiety with regard to a matter affecting my happiness for Kj
life. At my first interview she gave me a minute and accurate descrip- in
tion of my friends in spirit-land, and a communication from one very j)|
dear to me, recently passed away from earth. I was told that I was m
wearing something belonging to her; what that was I could not make |n
out at the time ; but next morning the solution flashed into my mind, in
and a better or surer test of personal identity I could not have received. ;(
On this first occasion I put some questions with the purpose of finding |)j
out where the husband of an intimate acquaintance was, who had de- !||
serted her; whether he were dead or alive, married or single, and she i||
tracked his course, described his character, and predicted his future. I i|
communicated what I got to the lady, and the other day she told me jn
that a gentleman who had gone abroad, and who had promised to make j)i
inquiries in regard to him, had found that Miss Fowler’s information |)|
was true to the most minute particular. As I did not know what to Kj
make of something Miss Fowler told me at my first sitting, against her Ki
wishes, I insisted on a second, when I got the mystery cleared up.
Not long ago I felt an irresistible impulse to pay Miss Fowler a third i(j
visit, on account of unexpected difficulties in my way. I was so utterly j>[
at a loss to know what to do, that I felt I should grudge neither time, j)|
trouble, nor expense if I could only get the counsel or direction I so lyj
much desired. I have no hesitation in saying that I was amply repaid, jyj
. The relief I experienced was greater than I can describe.
Investigator. | (j
MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH MR. COLMAn’S MEDIUMSHtP.
Sir,—As my object in opening circles for the display of the physical |) j
phenomena is their encouragement, and cultivation into higher and j:;
more perfect forms, it will perhaps be satisfactory to the students of j (j
Spiritualism if I detail a few manifestations lately obtained through |)|
the mediumship of Mr. Arthur Cblman, which show a decided progress. i(!
The materialisations through this medium are very varied, from the m
vaporous, floating, almost intangible form, to the solid and completely |)|
materialised being, who walks out in our midst, conversing, and per- j; j
forming many little actions, which prove the perfect use of organic m
bodies. The materialisation of these temporary forms is in itself the
greatest wonder of modern Spiritualism, and opens a curious chapter of I (
study to the scientist. We find we are more wondrously constituted j
than we had ever dreamed of; for, once removed into the spirit-world, it j)
will become possible for us to create bodies of flesh for ourselves, in (4
which we may again mingle with men on earth, and carry on the func- ! j
tions of mortal life for longer or shorter periods, as may be accorded j) \
unto us. But not only have spirits the power of materialising them- \
selves, they have also the power of dematerialising mortals, and ren- !)!
dering them invisible for certain lengths of time, of which fact I and j||
some others have had ocular demonstration several times with two i(j
mediums. We have long known that the spirit has the power of jjj
leaving the body in some cases at will, but that the particles of the ]) j
body can be dissipated into the air (as it appears), becoming totally j(j
invisible, and then be reformed in all respects as before, for the habi- iji
tation of the spirit, is one of the most marvellous possibilities of j)j-
our truly marvellous human existence. But what does this prove? i j
Merely that the wonders of creation are not yet exhausted, and that jjj
the earnest student may turn over ever fresh pages in the volume of jjj
the great universe of mind and matter, and receive ever new reve- jjj
lations of the inexhaustible power, variety, majesty, and beauty of jjj
his Divine Maker as displayed in His works. It proves that the jjj
Spiritualist who seeks God in everything, and by every new effort to jjj
penetrate the unknown, only removes veils which hide His beauty, jjj
is ascending to vast heights of knowledge, from which he may look down jjj
upon others who prefer to plod along in the old way, fearing to ascend, j j j
as a giant might look down upon pigmies. Of all the marvels of creation j j j
man himself is the greatest, and it is given to Spiritualism, as a means j j I
to an end, to reveal to man new wonders of his being, and his truly jj!
divine capabilities. Spirit is the lord paramount over matter, and the jjj
human will purified, regulated, and inspired by divine wisdom, becomes jjj
possessed of almost unlimited power, which it learns to use like a god. jjj
These are some of the lessons taught us by Spiritualism, the present
mental football of narrow-minded vulgarians, who flatter themselves
they satisfactorily kick it into a corner amongst useless things by a few
paltry witticisms at its expense.
A few evenings since, sitting for materialisations, three ladies present,
we had the form materialised of the grandmother of one of our party.
This lady was remarkable for beauty of features in lifetime, and a year
previously had been photographed at Hudson’s through my mediumship.
The photograph was recognised, and again the materialised form by the
grand-daughter, who did not at all expect the appearance of her rela¬
tion either time. I also immediately recognised the form from the
photograph. The spirit floated between the parted curtains, rising at
times nearly to the top of the door, which had a very ghost-like effect.
At the last she sank down to the floor, and gradually melted away, until
the whole of her shape was dissipated. After the lapse of a very few
minutes, another one of these partially formed vaporous-looking beings
appeared, floating too. This time it bore the face of a man with snow-
white hair. It receded behind the curtains, and a step was heard
crossing the floor of the next room. The curtains opened, and our
medium stood in the opening entranced. The light was very good, and
we could see his half-closed eyes, and the still, dreamy expression
of the face distinctly. Then the form, which now we recognised as
bearing the calm, noble features of George Washington, a face inex¬
pressibly spiritual in its beauty, floated up beside the medium, half
across his breast, and back again. Three or four times this was
repeated, each time the shape disappearing behind the curtains,
when, as we still looked, a female form slowly floated up
in its place, wearing a curiously shaped cap. This too was recog¬
nised ; and directly the form of Washington floated upon the opposite
side of the medium, standing motionless between the curtains.
The medium then retired, allowing the curtains to fall together.
Soon after his voice was heard, under the control of Aim§e, telling us
they were going to try a new experiment. Drawing up a chair, she
seated her medium on it between the parted curtains, which she caused
him to hold open as wide as possible. Directly floated up the form of
Washington on the right, and my own dear guide Lily on the left.
“ What do you think of that?” asked Aimee, apparently quite delighted
—“Is not that pretty?’’—and, bending over, she kissed first one and
then the other. Again and again they floated up from opposite sides,
nearly meeting across the medium’s breast, the faces very beautifully
perfect, but quite still, and statuesque, except that they bowed in
answer to questions. A few moments after tliey finally disappeared.
Aimee told us to turn the light higher, and asked us what we should
like to have moved in our room. I suggested a chair, standing a little
way in front of our cabinet, but she objected to this, and whilst we were
speaking, a chair at the other end of the room, full twelve feet from the
curtain, behind which was the medium, began to advance from the wall,
and tilt about, nearly falling over.
This is the second time Washington has materialised at my rooms.
I accept it as a mark of his affection, and remembrance of a daughter of
the country he made; but all my life my soul has rendered up to him a
silent worship, as one who embodied in himself all man’s noblest cha¬
racteristics. I may believe he has responded to that worship, for since
I have been a medium he has often appeared to me, and I have wel¬
comed with great delight his materialisation here.
On Saturday evening, after William Scott had (been out amongst us
with his lamp, in spite of the intense and exhausting heat, appearing in
great perfection—he showed himself at the aperture in the curtain in
the light, and exhibited his beautiful lamp, then of a crescent shape, and
shining like the moon. It gradually became milky white, and then he
withdrew it. The spirits who walk out fully embodied, with, or without
lamps, always go up to the looking-glass, and take a survey of them¬
selves, no doubt to judge of their appearance to us. William Scott often
asks us—“ Do you see me ?”—and then he flares his lamp up brighter
to make his face more distinct. We have had a light float out from the
curtains, of a globular shape, as large as the glass shade over a gas
burner.
These are some of the manifestations given to us, and I observe a
gradual progress. The more ordinary phenomena are seldom resorted
to, unless we have a circle that seems to require them.
Catherine Woodforde.
90, Great Russell-street.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS Versus MATERIALISATIONS.
Sir,—Some remarks in Mr. B. Coleman’s narrative of a sSance at
Mr. Woodforde’s in The Spiritualist of July 14th, and others in your
leading article of the same date, touch upon a subject of great import¬
ance, which, in my opinion, should not be allowed to drop without further
discussion.
You speak of certain manifestations which may be the “ double ” of
the medium, or the spirit of the medium acting under conditions we
have been accustomed hitherto to consider abnormal. In these cases it
is still to be supposed that the form presented is, in the majority of
instances at least, a form distinct and separate from that of the medium,
and that when the spectators are allowed access to the cabinet, they
will find therein the “ form ” of the medium, though possibly in a state
decidedly abnormal.
Then there is the manifestation exemplified by Mrs. Compton in
America. While the medium was placed under the strictest tests,
firmly bound to her seat, and with her dress nailed to the floor, a form
would appear in white raiment, and in all respects unlike Mrs. Compton,
differing even in weight, and yet when the spectators searched the
cabinet no trace of the medium was to be seen. After the “ form ”
vanished, and the cabinet was again searched, Mrs. Compton was still
sitting as at first, with her dress nailed to the floor. What is this ? It
is a manifestation certainly, and one in which it cannot be supposed that
the medium plays a conscious part, but can it be called a materialisation ?
358
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 28, 1876.
Again, when Miss Cook was in the Isle of "Wight, staying at the
house of Dr. Pardon, a cabinet sitting was held at noon on a Mid¬
summer’s day, for the sake of photographing the face at the
cabinet window, should one be presented. The medium was
placed in a straight jacket, laced up the back, and with the sleeves
sewn and sealed behind her back, and then fastened with straps to an
iron staple in the floor. A living face was presented at the opening, and
remained long enough to be photographed, but, as soon as it had disap¬
peared, Miss Cook called out in alarm to Dr. Pardon to “ come and see,”
and the jacket was found slit all the way down, evidently by a cutting
instrument, yet none such could be found either on Miss Cook’s person
or in the cabinet. The natural inference was that the face presented
was Miss Cook’s face, but Dr. Pardon himself told me that it was im¬
possible, though he was at that time new to the subject, for him to prove
or to believe, after carefully sifting and weighing all the circumstances,
that Miss Cook had any knowledge of how the trick was done.
I have more than once seen, and you, sir, and others must have seen,
so-called materialisations which bore every evidence of being the
medium brought out in disguise, and sometimes in very poor disguise
too; so poor, that the medium would have been far too clever to have
presented himself or herself so badly got up, could he or she be sup¬
posed to have had any hand in the performance.
I firmly believe that in all the cases I have mentioned there was a
manifestation of spirit-power, and that the medium, when forced to take
part in it, has been not only disguised, but to some extent transformed;
the operating spirit has seemed to infuse, as it were, his own spirit into
the unconscious form with which he was “ manifesting.” That these
influences were not of a high order, has been evident to me personally,
by the feeling of terror that has seized me as I have gazed into the eyes
of these personating genii; whereas, when a real materialisation takes
place—and I have witnessed such on very many occasions—the influ¬
ence, though a physical one, is not unpleasant to me.
Since the difference between these various kinds of manifestation
must have struck all those who are in the habit of attending physical
seances, and of observing and questioning, instead of merely believing
what purports to be said by spirits, why, I ask, are we to continue to call
them all by one name ? Is it not to make confusion more confounded,
and to expose our mediums to the charge of trickery by inquirers who
do not know all the wondrous difficulties of the subject ? It would be
better, I think, to recognise at once that transfiguration, or transforma¬
tion of the medium, giving him or her a momentary likeness to some
departed friend, is a distinct, and, under test conditions, a legitimate,
form of manifestation. But do not let us blind ourselves and others,
through fear of giving offence, or for other foolish reasons, to facts which
are so patent that even a child could at once detect their nature and
difference.
I venture to hope, even, that our mediums would be cleared, in some
instances, from charges of imposture, if it were recognised that spirits
play tricks with them for which they are not responsible. On the other
hand, it should make both mediums and sitters doubly careful that all
“ form ”, manifestations be held under the most severe test conditions,
otherwise the spirits will content themselves with producing these mock
presentations, when they find that they are as acceptable as those which
are genuine. Emily Kislingbtjry.
38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT MESSAGES.
Sir,—The accompanying spirit teachings have been received at
different times within the last few months, by the tilting of a table, and
through the mediumship of a lady. Thinking you might like to give
your readers the benefit of them, they are yours with my compliments.
February 29^7», 1876.—God weigheth in the balance of love those
who exercise charity one towards another. The merciful he bringeth to
a pillow of down; the peacemaker to groves of the sweet-scented
myrtle. But for the cruel and hard-hearted there is no abode of peace;
his deeds go before him, planting his path with the sharp-pointed
thorn. Alas, humanity ! in whose heart there is no room for pity.
April %nd.—String your harp while yet on earth; time it to the key¬
note of love, else how can ye stand in the choirs of heaven, and mingle
youf chords with its harmonies of love ?
Strike your harp where the lowly dwell; breathe its softest music
where the worldling deserts; play it oft, lest thy soul sleep in self.
April 137/i.—Pure from the fountain head flows the stream of life.
Oh, humanity! why sully its bright waters while they pass through
your bosom ? Can the bright and glorious image sparkle on a fetid
pool?
April \§th,—The depths of the ocean, the mountain-tops, the
measureless immensity of all space, breathe the goodness and love of
their Creator; and will humanity forget Him ?
April 27th.—Mankind, you love to carve out idols of self; ye fall
down and worship them; yea, lick the very mire.
Read John chapter xix. (comment when read). No wonder men did
not believe a kingdom could belong to one so poverty-steeped.
May 14tA.—Deep in the valley of the heart lives a spring called
conscience; choke it not; let it mount in fountains of praise to the
Great Creator, and it will fall again in showers of love, carving their
impress on their stony bed, and fertilising all around. Oh, mankind !
earth is not thy dwelling-place, nor self thy goal.
May 2t)th.—Oh, man! is the seed sown for the worm’s food, or to
spring into renewed life ? Is the body planted for an insect revel, or
that the tree of life may flourish again in Paradise ?
June Wth.—Humanity asks, is spirit communication with it true ?
Look around at what you call nature. See even the clouds that bathe
you in shadow; where are their wings ? on what do they ride ? how do
they stoop to kiss the earth with fertilising love ? Do they not but obey
the laws of the Great Creator ? and shall we break them, and, fleeing
} I from our kindred spirits in the flesh, forget it is not good for man to be
j I alone. Now see the rose. Does it bury its sweetness in its own bosom ?
i No; even its fallen leaves breathe perfume on the winds that scatter
i them. And you call the rose dead; but where is the essence ? can you
! measure its wanderings or shackle its footsteps ?
lj Ponder the economy of nature. You say death passes upon all.
[I What you call death is only the dissolving of matter into its com-
|j ponent parts. What we call death is man burying himself in self. Oh,
,j man, burst the bonds of thy self-made tomb. God willeth not thy
death, for God is love, and love gives life, and life gives love again, and
I sweet communion seeks. Humanity marvels at one link in wisdom’s
golden chain. X.
j WHAT ARE WORKS?
I r Sir,—It seems to me that the “ fallacy ” which he imputes to another
j is with A. T. A. himself in his reasoning on this important subject.
According to him a murderer’s “ works ” have reference to himself alone,
| having apparently no higher aim than that of saving his own skin.
I “Consciousness of guilt, submission, teachableness, humility, with
passing clouds of horror and remorse ”—these have undoubtedly their
i intrinsic value, but this value is not at all that A. T. A. assigns to them,
i They cannot “make amends” for past misdeeds, and so redress the
| balance of conduct. Their value consists in this, that they form a
| preparation whereby the spirit is brought into condition to commence
| and carry on the real work of atonement—good deeds, works on behalf
| of others.
j A. T. A. says, “ The shortness of the time given for such works is
nothing, for time is no measurement of spirit suffering, life, and action.”
| Here is another fallacy, the condemned murderer is not living in the
| spirit, but on the earth, and is, therefore, still subject to the conditions
| of time and space, from which not even the episcopally chosen and
ordained “ Ordinary ” can free him.
“ By quality, not quantity, must our faith be gauged, so also must
our moral being.” A. T. A. may have some peculiar method of mea-
! suring “ the quantity of our moral being,” and of distinguishing between
the “ quantity” and “ quality ” of his own faith; but I fear these are
orthodox privileges to which Spiritualists in general will be able to lay
no claim.
A little fact is worth more than a great deal of argument, however,
| and the testimony of spirits themselves (even if accepted cum grano
| salis) ought to be sufficient to determine the question as to what con-
| stitute “ works.” Direct evidence on this head has been frequently
given to the writer and others at various circles. I will select a single
| instance: en uno disce omnes. At Mrs. Woodforde’s circle one evening
some time ago an unhappy spirit controlled, giving a long account of
| himself which was published soon after in The Spiritualist. This
account represented him to be an Egyptian prince who lived during
some part of the sojourn of the Israelities in that country. His great
| passion had been an unbridled love of power, to gratify which he had
pursued a life of unexampled wickedness. This career he had, after
death, still carried on in the spirit, obsessing and otherwise influencing
men and women, and driving them to the commission of every vice and
crime, generation after generation, for three thousand years. During
the whole of this time his conscience had not been awakened. But now
at last a ray of light had penetrated his dark and hardened nature.
With the light came remorse—that spiritual suffering which, he said,
far exceeds in intensity the sufferings of earth. His punishment was
only now begun; when would it end ? The answer was appalling; he
must live bach the whole of the three thousand years before he could
even begin to rise!
There were some eight or ten persons present on this occasion, in¬
cluding the writer, and to no one of these was it possible to doubt the
communication, which in the manner as well as the matter of its delivery
made an impression never to be forgotten. This case, supported by
many others not so remarkable which I could adduce, seems to prove
that Mr. Martheze’s expression, “ good actions, either here or hereafter,
must outweigh the evil deeds of this life,” is literally true, and also pace
A. T. A. that time is a factor in the calculation of spirit suffering, life,
and action.
Moreover, it is a fact insisted on again and again by spirits, through
Mrs. Tappan and others, that by our thoughts and actions here we are all
the time building our home in the spirit world—or leaving it unbuilt, as
the case may be. A beautiful life developes a beautiful home; a selfish
or materialistic life leaves the spirit houseless and homeless. In “ A
Dark Picture,” given some time since in this journal, spirits of the
latter class were described as wandering naked in dismal swamps
under a leaden and cheerless sky, their only food what they could
find in the slime under their feet. Even the late Mr. Guppy, as
recently reported in The Spiritualist, represents himself as located
with a large number of spirits who, like himself, are without homes;
and it is evident that he could say more on the subject were it
agreeable.
It is well that men should recognise this evidence—-and there is
plenty more of it, and not continue living in a fool’s paradise, trust¬
ing to faith in they know not what; consideration for others, with
disregard for self—wor/c, in some shape or other, according to means
and opportunities, for the poor, the diseased, the ignorant, constitutes
the ladder of ascent in spirit life.*'
One word more—I have found that communicating spirits who are
unhappy, including Thoth, the Egyptian, and many others, invariably
implore the prayers of the circle, and that these prayers have the effect •
in some way or other of alleviating to some degree their suffering, and
of aiding their advancement—probably by bringing down help from
higher spirits. To mention only one instance, an acquaintance of mine
lost his wife. Very soon after death she came to his circle, and be¬
sought his forgiveness for any discomfort she had caused him during
July 28, 1876. THE SPIKITTJALIST. 359
their wedded life (her faults were simply worldliness and selfishness,
to what extent I am not in a position to say). She described her con¬
dition as cold, and dark, and miserable, and besought her husband to
pray for her. It so happened that he was not a praying man, and said
to her, “ But you know that I do not believe in prayer. If I do pray
for you, will my prayers be of any help to you ? ” “ Yes! yes ! and to
yourself toowas the reply. After this assurance her request was
complied with, and at every meeting of the circle. She also has had
work to do, and is now a happy spirit.
Doubtless many of your readers could from their own experience with
unhappy spirits help to throw light on a subject of universal interest ?
Lux.
Brighton, July 18th, 1876.
Sir,—As no subject can well be of more importance than the question
of “ What are Works ? ” the appended passages will doubtless interest
your readers who have not had an opportunity of reading them else¬
where :—
Extract from a spirit communication made in the Banner of Light
circle, reported the 8th inst.:—
“ I loved to annoy a Spiritualist, especially when I had been imbibing
strong drink. I am free to confess that I am sorry for it; hut it won't
heal the wou/nd—not a particle. I have been sorry to my heart’s content,
sorry every minute, but it has not affected one thing. ... I have one
piece of advice to give, and that is, if you want to enjoy life with us,
and have a good, honest time, behave yourselves while you live in the
body.—Frank Stbbbins.”
From another spirit on the same occasion
“ The spirit receives the impression of every act done in the body.
It is given to you like a piece of pure white paper, and you are making
marks on it every day. It is impossible to cover up a wrong act: you
must face it when you enter the spirit world. Oh ! if men and women
fully realised this, would they not stop and look over the acts of their
lives, and see what they are laying up for themselves in the spirit
world ? True, we have no hell to frighten them with; no fiery furnace
sending up its brimstone; but they are answerable for every act done in
the body, no matter how much they repent of it. They have done the
work, sown the seed, and must reap the harvest it brings. They will
have no Christ to drag them into heaven. If they get there, it must be
by their own deeds of goodness.”
These communications, especially the latter, if we accept spirit as¬
surances at all, ought to be sufficient to settle the question of the re¬
spective merits and efficacy of repentance, faith, and “ works.”
Inquirer.
INTERESTING- CONFIRMATION OF A MESSAGE.
Sir,—Early in February you inserted a communication from Esther
Barton, who was hanged for being a medium, at Tyburn, on the 20th of
April, 1534, &e., &c. After searching in vain for such a name and
the facts referred to, Dr. Carter Blake kindly took note of the cir¬
cumstances on my recent visit to London, and found the main points
quite correct. But it says Elizabeth, not Esther B , and Richard
instead of Ruchard, as the (Christian) name of the priest. A few days
ago I asked about this difference, and received (by raps) the reply:—<
“ Mother named me Elizabeth, but father was vexed, and called me
Esther.” In regard to Richard, it rapped: “ Misspelt,” and insisted
upon fj Ruchard ” as the real name. I am morally convinced that the
medium did not know a particle of the message before hand; in so far I
consider the test perfect, and acquitted of unconscious cerebration. The
raps came quite away from, and singularly independent of, the medium
in both cases. The first message took nearly half an hour in signalling,
the medium being quite exhausted after a powerful materialisation, and
I too, but the apparent desire of the spirit overruled our reluctance to
continue the tiresome task. C. Reimers,
Ducie Avenue, Manchester, July 24th.
DARWIN’S RELATIONSHIP TO SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—My attention has been called to a passage in The Spiritualist of
July 7th, p. 320, which contains a statement by an Italian society to
the effect that my father is a believer in Spiritualism. As this announce¬
ment is absolutely without foundation, I hope you will permit me to
state that my father has never attended to the subject, and that he,
therefore, does not consider his opinion to be of any value, but he is not
disposed to believe in Spiritualism. Francis Darwin,
Down, Beckenham, Kent, July 24th, 1876,
Mr. Rhodes, of Newcastle, desires to acknowledge the receipt of a
parcel of Banners of Light from Mr. Martheze, of Brighton; Mrs.
Hardinge’s Modern Spiritualism, from Mr. Millar; and Spicer’s Lights
and Sounds from Mr. Kersey, for the library of the Newcastle Society of
Spiritualists.
Mr. Charles Blackburn is about to improve the cabinet in the
rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, by dividing it into
two by means of a movable partition of wire mesh, so that the
mediums may sit upon one side of the screen whilst the materialisa¬
tions are produced on the other, as was recently done most successfully
in America.
The Athenceum says that “ Mr. Crookes’s radiometer is exciting con¬
siderable attention in France. At recent meetings of the Academie des
Sciences, M. A. Ledieu, M. W. de Fonville, M. Fizeau, and M. Trouve
have discussed, with much care and attention, the phenomena exhibited
by this instrument. Some experiments made by M. Fizeau appear to
show that the radiometer is really a thermic apparatus.”
| | THE DEVELOPMENT OF RELIGIOUS FREEDOM,
f Mr. George Farmer, of London, in the course of an
| | article published in the R,eligio-Philosophical Journal (Chi-
jj cago) of July 15th, says :—
| | It has hitherto been the almost universal custom to speak
I | in terms of disparagement of all religions save our own, and
| | to assume that of all the world’s faiths Christianity alone is
| I the true one ; that while it discovers the glory of God, all
| others reproach Him; that it alone can bring man to
| knowledge and civilisation; all the rest keep him in darkness
| and ignorance. The limitation of the divine government of
j the world to the Jewish and Christian nations has been em-
| phatically insisted on, and even the very name of religion
j has been grudged to the ancient creeds which have been
| regarded, with a feeling of suspicion and horror, as the
I | invention of priestcraft, the doctrines of which would tend to
I j a degrading and corrupt superstition. The time has, how-
| I ever, happily passed when the great a Pagan ” creeds could
I j be so shelved. The systematic study of the science of
| religion has thrown back the landmarks of history, and
I | peopled the periods of time, thought obscure and barren.
\\\ In the same manner as travellers have met with teeming
I | agricultural and pastoral tribes in the wilds and recesses of
| | Africa, hitherto accounted an almost desolate and unproduc-
| | tive country, so have nations believed to be lost in the ages,
I I without a history, and almost without a language,
I | emerged all at once into the light of day, claiming a fabu-
| | lous antiquity, with innumerable legends, magnificent litera-
Hl ture, and miraculous efforts in the development of intelli-
j I gence and civilisation. History has changed its aspect, and
j j with it our ideas are being enlarged, and our conceptions of
i | ancient life and thought broadened. The fact is being recog-
| | nised that, ages prior to Christianity, and probably to the
| j advent of Judaism, religions existed, the purity and lofty
I j conceptions of which cannot fail to command respect and
| i reverence.
f t A PRESENTIMENT REALISED.
!(| (From the “ Neto Orleans Bulletin'')
j ! The following story was told us yesterday by a gentleman who
| j voucb.es for its correctness, and whose statements are entitled to full
|! | credit; it may, therefore, be considered as entirely reliable. The details
I j are very singular, and we give them publicity because they are not only
lu strange, but develope a new species of presentiment unlike anything of
j (I the kind of which we have heard or read.
jjl A few nights ago the train of the Morgan railroad started from
Hi Brashear heavily laden. There was an unusually large number of cars,
i|l and the locomotive travelled at a very slow rate of speed.
| | When about half way between Lafourche and Terrebonne station the
| (I engineer gave the portentous and loud danger signal, and immediately
| j whistled Jj down brakes.” When the train was stopped, several persons
i} | ran up to the engine to inquire the cause, the engineer responded that
| | he was sure he had just run over a man; the train was backed slowly
| (I for fully half a mile, and every inch of the track and the surrounding
| | locality were minutely searched, but nobody was found. The engineer
| u was told this, but he persisted in his statement, and only after rene wed
| | and very careful search was he convinced of his mistake; he stated,
|(| however, that he would have sworn that he had run over a man, and
| (I described his peculiar and terrible sensation as he imagined the wheels
i ji of his engine rolling over the body, and instinctively he blew the regu-
|) | lation whistle to stop the train.
I! j The man must have actually suffered, so intense and acute did his
I | imagination work, and it was some time before he became fully satisfied
| j of his mistake. This part of the story is in itself peculiar, but the
| (| sequel is still more strange; for hardly had the train reached the end
|J| of another mile, when the whistle again sounded, “down brakes,” and
| [ again the train was brought to a stand. Inquiry elicited the same story
| (| from the engineer, and the same degree of positiveness characterised his
j (j assertions; attempts were made to induce him to proceed, but he would
| j | not do so until the road was examined some distance back.
| This was finally agreed to, and, contrary to all expectation, the
M searchers discovered that this time the engineer was right; the train
had run over and killed a man just the moment the whistle blew. Of
11 course all were astonished, and were very sorry to find that the engineer’s
II fears were realised. The body was brought to the city on the same
; i train.
I Dr. Slade gives no seances on Saturdays.
Mr. Martin R. Smith distinguished himself greatly by his shooting
in the recent rifle competition at Wimbledon.
The North of England Review has published a good likeness of Dr.
I William Hitchman, of Liverpool.
I Mr. C. E. Williams, the medium, will leave London next Thursday
I for a few weeks’ travel on the Continent.
360
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 28, 1876.
SPIRITUAL LECTURES IN LIVERPOOL.
Last Sunday, Mr. Harper, of Birmingham, lectured in. the afternoon
and evening at Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool.
The subject of the afternoon lecture was “ The Parentage of God.’’
Mr. Harper remarked that he preferred the term “ parentage ” when
applied to Deity to the old one of “fatherhood,” as it included the
attributes of both sexes. The genus homo, he observed, was only com¬
plete in its perceptions, and perfect in its individuality, when the two
sexes were blended into one identity by spiritual marriage. Women
presented the highest manifestation of God in love of offspring, theirs
being the only form of love which survives every species of depravity,
and all the depths of ingratitude in its object. Mr. Harper submitted
that in spite of all temporary degradation, caused by adverse circum¬
stances and surroundings, there was a oneness with God in man, and an
identity of substance in his organism with the whole universe. The
Several faculties of man, he contended, were expressed through the
whole of nature. Will-power wielded by beings less than omnipotent
was seen by the clairvoyants of all countries to be the means by which
various classes of phenomena in nature were produced. He said that
the patterns of flowers, the instincts of sagacity below the human plane,
the creation of solar systems, and the birth of planets in these systems,
with many other results of individualised will-power, pointed to the
existence of One Supreme Will flowing through and expressing itself in
lesser wills.
The evening’s address was entitled, “ The Brotherhood of Man.”
The entire brotherhood and sisterhood of the whole human race was
deduced from the identity of parentage in Deity, and the lecturer con¬
tended that the whole of the criminal classes of so-called civilization,
the races of savages, the enslaved African, and, in fact, the most morally
deformed inhabitants of the hells, both physical and spiritual, possessed
a universal brotherhood, the numberlessly various conditions of depravity
ofthe degraded being largely due to violations of the Divine law of brother¬
hood. To remedy the existing state of things in respect to brotherhood
the lecturer proposed many plans, the central idea being identity of
interests for the various classes of society.
Next Sunday Dr. William Hitchman will lecture in the afternoon on
“ Rational Religion and Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy in the evening on the
text, “ Of such are the kingdom of heaven.”
ANTI-SPlRmiALISM IN LEIGH.
The following report, abridged from the Leigh Chronicle, shows what
absurdities the credulous public, who know nothing about Spiritualism,
will swallow:—
On Wednesday evening Mr. Lees delivered his third lecture, entitled,
“ Its Social, Moral, and Religious aspects.” The Rev. D. Wareing
again occupied the chair, and introduced the lecturer.
Mr. Lees said his intention was not to deal with Spiritualism as it was
in Leigh, but as it would be when it was fully developed. He did not
charge the disciples of it with deceptfon, only credulity. The mediums,
however, with few exceptions, were professional impostors and humbugs,
who made a living of it and a fortune in the end. The genuine medium,
however, did not meet with this success, but more probably met his end
in the lunatic asylum. The professional medium’s only concern was to
make a living out of it, and with the religious aspect of the question he
felt no concern. To show what was the destiny of many Spiritualists,
he might say that in America eight lunatic asylums had been built by
Spiritualists, and were occupied by 5,000 demented mediums. In
private families if a child ten years old was a medium he did as he
liked, and was subjected to no parental authority. Nothing he ever
proposed was objected to, and he was never crossed for fear of exaspe¬
rating the spirits. In Manchester there was a juvenile Spiritualist who
would be permitted to stay out at nights whenever he liked because his
parents were afraid of his mediumship, and apprehended the revenge of
spirits. Mediums must be subject to no laws, but everyone must be
subjected to their laws. In some places he had seen a child eight years
old governing a household because the dear little thing could turn the
table. Most ministers said Spiritualism was the work of the devil, but
he doubted it, for it had far less cunning than the devil would infuse
into it were it his production. Spiritualists did not believe that they
were influenced by the spirits of departed beings only, but by spirits of
gas, beans, slates, flowers, wind, and rain. In fact, they believed every¬
thing had a spirit, and it was not uncommon for a Spiritualist to be
under the influence of a tulip or a brown cabbage. (Laughter.) A
Spiritualist believed in the doctrine of reincarnation, which is that a
person could return to the world again and live through mediums. The
doings in seances were of the most repulsive character to English feel¬
ings, and not fit for any civilised person to witness. On Burlington
Heights there was a community, and one of their most stringent
rules was that no person should sit in a seance except in a state
of nudity, and this had been tried in England in three different
places. He could name the places, and he would do it yet.
About a fortnight ago he was in the Potteries where a Wesleyan minister
told him his church was split up by the Spiritualists, and a town
councillor stated that his daughter had been ruined through the influence
of the doctrines and the practice of seances. They regarded marriage
as an unpleasant fetter, and they thus interpreted the words in the
Lord’s prayer, “ Thy will, be done in earth as it is in heaven.” By
virtue of their interpretation they claimed that as there was no marriage
or giving in marriage in heaven there should be none in earth. Christ,
they said, forbad marriage, and was an example himself of abstinence
from it. One of the American female mediums regarded confining
herself to one husband as an abridgment of her rights, as all men were
her husbands and she had an undying love for them all. (Laughter.)
The lecturer wound up with a peroration of some length, during which
some one shouted out, “ He’s preaching,” and several persons demanded
the ejectment of the individual, but the chairman interposed.
• jj The business of the light seance then commenced, the lecturer stating
!that the Spiritualists, if they were sitting in sufficient numbers in the
front rows might frustrate him in turning the table, and this had
occurred at the Athenaeum, Birmingham, where two hundred Spiritual¬
ists were determined to prevent him, an ex-medium, turning the table,
j and this they succeeeded in doing till he had them placed at the back of
the hall, when the table moved freely.
Dr. Evans wished to know whether Mr. Lees would have any objection
to a little test he had prepared to see if he could prevent that gentleman
moving the table. He was simply searching for the truth, and with
| others he was very much in the position of the person at the circum-
[ looutory office—he wanted “to know, you know.” (Laughter.) He
wished to see whether his test would diminish the table’s vitality. It
was a perfectly simple and harmless test, and he would be responsible
for the table that it received no harm.
|| The Lecturer said he should have great pleasure to submit to one or
|| fifty tests, relying upon Dr. Evans that it would not be injurious to
j |] himself. It was his intention to give them a communication that night,
j )j and he would ask them to select a name for the table to rap out.
i(| A Voice: “Whistling Tommy.” (Great laughter.)
I j Three.gentlemen having been selected from the audience, the name
|| was given by the table in the usual manner, and at the conclusion of
| (| the manifestations,
i)| Dr. Evans said that on the previous night, as most of them were
| j| aware, there was a strong feeling that the manifestations were produced
|(| by muscular exertion, and Mr. Norbury had endeavoured to give the
| | manifestation, but with what success it was not for him to say. Every
!|i one must judge for himself. He hoped no one would consider him
i(i either a Spiritualist or an anti-Spiritualist. He wanted to “know, you
|)l know.” (Laughter.) In Leigh he had seen things done and felt things
jj! done which he could not possibly account for. For the purpose of
||| testing the muscular force in relation to the table, he had prepared some
\\\ stuff in a bottle (which he produced)—his patent anti-psychic [A Voice:
jj! “Physic,” laughter.] lubricator. The mixture was composed of soft
j|s soap, and he had more faith in it, both sorts—(laughter)—than vitriol,
ij! although he used that sometimes. To the soft soap he added three
! j! half-pints of water and then bottled it, and it was now as slippery as
! ! any of them. The table was then anointed with the preparation, and
! ! also the hands of the operators.
! j| The Lecturer said the rule with him was to try everything he had
jj! not tried, and he would willingly try it that night. At the same time he
! ! might say that, not having tried it, he did not know its effect. If he
! j I failed that night he would promise them he would come again, and he
i j! would try it again, and it should be tried until he had proved it one way
j/j or the other, and he would be glad if the doctor would report upon the
i'v! result. (Cheers.)
[After the table had been prepared the operators sat down to it, but
after fifteen minutes’ sitting neither spirits nor the aura gave any visible
manifestations, but Mr. Smith, one of the sitters, said he experienced a
slight oscillation.
The Lecturer said he did not despair of moving the table with the
soap on it, and he would experimentalise with it, and if he succeeded in
moving it he would come to the Drill Hall and admit the public free to
see it.
At the close of the lecture and sSance, Mr. R. Whitfield proposed, and
j d Mr. J. M. Reid seconded, “ That this meeting, a large majority of which
!)! having heard the lectures of Mr. R. J. Lees against Spiritualism, believes
! ! that he has fully established the propositions laid down by him, and is
ijl deserving of our warmest thanks.” The somewhat involved resolu-
||j' tion was carried by acclamation and a show of hands.
I ! The Medical Protection Society is actively prosecuting persons who
jj! use the title of “Dr.” without any legal right so to do. Several sham
!jj doctors have already been convicted.
lj! Mrs. Weldon’s Concert.—On Wednesday last week Mrs. Weldon
jj! gave an invitation concert at Great St. James’s Hall, Regent-street,
! j] which was well filled on the occasion, about two thousand persons being
! ! present. In consequence of the Alexandra Palace Choir Committee
! j! passing a resolution forbidding their choir to sing elsewhere, the number
h of voices was considerably reduced, and did not bear a fair relation to
H the powerful orchestra. Some of the children of Mrs. Weldon’s orphan-
! j I age gave great pleasure to those assembled by their singing and recitations;
! j! this part of the programme occupied altogether but about a quarter of
i j! an hour, after which the children made a collection for the benefit of the
||j orphanage. The collection was an exceedingly small one, amounting to
[ji but £32, not a few of those present having attended well provided with
i I threepenny pieces and sixpences. A mistaken impression prevailed to a
i considerable extent that the orchestra gave its services gratuitously
j i because, of the charitable object of the meeting, but this was not the
iji case; in fact, the concert cost Mrs. Weldon ^110. It is, perhaps, the
| i first time that the experiment has been tried of giving a magnificent
[jl concert to a large number of people in St. James’s Hall, and trusting to
voluntary contributions to more than cover the expenses. Mrs. Weldon
! ! will probably repeat the experiment next year, but let it be clearly
ij! understood that the poorest are not expected to subscribe less than a
|ji shilling. Perhaps a few remarks from the platform explaining the
! nature and objects of the Orphanage, and the conditions under which the
I concert was given, would have produced better results on the last
m occasion. So far as we have been able to ascertain, the shabby result
j|! of the collection was in no way due to the actions of the proportion of
! Spiritualists present in the audience.
!] . '• ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS,
jji In our report of the.last Council meeting, the name of Mr. Gray was inserted
( I instead of that of Mrs. Gregory, in error. The remark, “ You must give your
b reasons for what you say,” was made by Mrs. Gregory.
July 28, 1876.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. EL. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
Loodon, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting Land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. fid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORf.D, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid,
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes. F.R.8. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.'
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. XL, by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
£lete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
iord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says;—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supematurafism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
Volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a|trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. " The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by theSpirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life pa earth, Best edition, gilt, IQs, fid.; cheap edition,
ys, fid,, ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
■ is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM ,MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam, fis.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid. i
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration¬
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. .6s. .
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton, fis. fid.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by WilUam Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. Aninteresting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel Hv Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by tbe
Rev. Bourcbier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. fis.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ol Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc, 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Cs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.1
5s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By tbe Rev. lames Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Ot. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .
The Seer. „ III, „ . ,
The Reformer. „ IV. . , .
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; Or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life . . ,
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health , . . . '
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence .. . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse .
Tbe Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s.,
s. d.
15 0
7
7
7
7
7
7
3
7
5
7
2
3
3 6
7 0
3 6
7 6
2 0
3 6
7 G
6 0
7 0
7 6
6 0
5 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . ,26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism .14-0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 0
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 8
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
B'.anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ■12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A . . ,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vola. . . -— — • ’ . . • . • 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahomriied.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . , , 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools • , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich;'6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8.. Mr. J. M. -
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conaat.
CART E DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), is. each,
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales’
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is. . ’
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative cf
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adoiyhus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. E. T.
llallock, 2s.
IV
THE SPIBITtJ^LIST.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY, • |
Eepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W.' H. Harrison, SprituoMst News-
paper Bmich (Jffice, ‘38, Great Kussell-street,' Bloomsbury.
London, 'W-O. - ,
[For purposes of mutpal convenience the above office has been
rented on, the premises of the National Association of Spirit"
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
pnbUshihg„business, are not in any way connected'With reach
other.] h ,
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE t»OTE>T. Tenth1 edition, j This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual 'tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended hef influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the Instrujnentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of jthe inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. * Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A: Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tion^ in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct aGcounf of thd mean's bywhich these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com-
muiripn is pourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London ' Spirit-
italisi Office.
QPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
IO U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
Indicates the character of the paper. Unlike. all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, IS, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.
Price 5s.
IRELANDUR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Trlibner and Co., Ludgate Hill,
■ Reviewees’ Criticisms.
“Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.”—Christian World.
“The somewhat startling-proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who maybe inclined to take the woik
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical,' the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amountof corrobora¬
tive evidence is a dduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test."—Rod;.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by S
• ’EDWIN LEE,'M.D,, 3
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of‘Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered;for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about ammal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to; I
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions Of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained dr explained.
Published by Longmans at 7si 6d.-' Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Baeon DieCkinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May • be had of W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.G. Price
6d., post free, 7d.
ANNALT DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologiea. di Niceford Filalete. .Published
n the 15th Of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino,'No. 23.
THE HOME . FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD. PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting Lond,on. can secure.domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by .the
generous efforts of friends of .the Causey led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on the "principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very area of; the spiritual movement.
,Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance
Mams SR—Mas, A. Q. Bv&kb.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE
The Cpuntess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts,
Sir Charles Jsham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton,
■William Howitt, Esq.,-Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq.; F.S.A;, 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington
I Charles Blackburn. Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
-W.'M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields..
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
' C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E,
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16,. South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
‘Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road,'Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon,’Esq;, MID.} 81 Great Oimbnd-street, WiC.
W. H. Harrison,' Esq.,’38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. 0. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell-F. Yarley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C. ■
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-plape, Portman-square
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater,' Esq.,T9, Leamington-road-villas, Westbourne-
park.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4, Castledine-road, Anerly, S.E
W- J. Williams, Esq:, Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, maybe
forwarded to the Bon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
Sec., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
. The followin sums have been already subscribed:—
Charles Blackburn, Esq    £50 0 0
A.V. H     30 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq.   25 0.0
Alexander Calder, Esq.       25 0 0
William .Tebb, Esq   25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq       25 0 -0
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq.    20 0 0
O. v. Hoffmann   20 0 0
James Wason, Esq  20 0 0,
Friends at St. Petersburg   19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq  10 16 0
.Thomas Grant, Esq.         10 10 0
A Friend ,...*  10 10 0
- Mrs. St. Claire         10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq: '    ,10 0 .,0,
Two Friends and Neighbours   ..,:.:..'....r... 10 0 O'
W. O.-OoppertiiWaiie, Esq... ".....I... 10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq   10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq    10 0 0,
J. Ridley, Esq......,—.;    10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton....’./..........'.!.....:...;.;.'    10 0 0
Mrs. Daun     10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq....  io 0 0
Mrs. He'nfiin'gs .;..... ~i5 *5 0
Mrs, Berry.       5 - 5 0.
J. Y. Vernon, Esq... .V.......A 6 - 5' 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq.-.    5 0 O'
O. Townsend Hook, Esq 5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq.      5-00
Enmore Jones, Esq   .1.1... 5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq.       .5 0 0
Mrs. Watts ....1 ;... ;,.;......V... . 5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq. i   5 0 0
p. G    -s o o
m. g. s  ; ..v/:..5,0 0
G’F. Varley, Esq.’ .'..Y...‘ . 5,0, 0
J. H. D  SSSf   5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq/ ....’. V. .........'.U.... 5 0 ’ 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart...  5 0 0
J. S. Law! Esq.      . 5 ' 0 ' 0
W.S. Godbe .......7  .*.  3 16 0
Friend per Mrs. Vernon " 3 3 0
G ,deLiagre . .7.............'.7...    3 3 .0
C. Pearson, Esq...   - 3 3 * 0
Miss Clark      7   3 0 0
S. C, Hall, Esq/       2 2.0
John Marshall, Esq.;        2 2 0
C. , Stephens, Esq.  ;   '.    2 2,0,
Dr. R. Baikie 1   < 2 2 o'
f.   ,220
Rev. W. Whitear ...:..    7 2 2 0
Miss Whitear ..........................'../..r........;...'...' 2 2 0
Thomas. Scott, Esq.       2 2 0
D. G.'Fitzgerald, Esq.'     2 2 0
Miss Watts ..; ;....       220
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D   .7..........  2 2 0
L. J.       2 2 0
G. Damiani     2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq.   -2 0 0
M. DeVeh/ .... /:   WZt.% C 2 0 0
John Lament, Esq.         2 0 0
C. McLean," Esq    2 0 0
Miss Douglas, ...-.      2 0 ‘0
J. Hare, Esq, and Friends     2 0 0-
Rev. J. Manners......,/.,...; .’     2 0 0
R.B.   110
D. H. W.     1 1 10,
A. Glendiruoing, Esq. . 110
W. Glynes, Esq        11 0
J. T. Peele/Esq     110
Dr. C. L. Robertson     110
Mrs. S. Dickson /.l.r..;....;........I............ 110
Regnum        1 1 o
Friend, per'J1. Hayle, Esq     110
F. A. Binney, Esq  ; ;  110
W. W.     r......T.v.*:    110
J. Swinburne, Esq.      110
J. Gledstanes, Esq..........   .....;  10 0
Mrs.’M. Gregory -   10 0
Dr. Hayle     10 0
G. P. Garter, Esq      10 0
Mrs.Wiseman     1 0 0
A, R. Wallace, .Esq .v .' I   10 0
J.C. Eno, Esq   1 0 0'-
Col. H. S. Olcott....... ......;   10 0
Baronin v. Vay  .....;   0 18 4
C. Parsons, Esq      - 0 10 6
C. O. G...'.V.,.,,. ..;....   0 10 0
July 28, 1876.
PRIMITIVE 'CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
~ SPIRITUALISM.
The Second VoMne oft The' lctentity qf Primitive
Christianity -md -Modern1 Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL,•M.D.-’.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —-Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism,
V.—Clairaudience. 1 ’
VL—Dreams and Visions
 VII,—Trance and Ecstacy.V ..
; VIII.—Holy Ghost. *'
IK.—Heresies and Contentions.
' X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
■X-II;—Death.
Kill.—The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV. —Spiritualism and Science. !
XVI. —Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“ KPJNE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUT1FIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH DF THE HAIR/AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY; ,
IT CLEANSES THE’HEAD; AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold hi the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free' from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact' renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC’’ an
invaluable'preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient. . •
Sold‘by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
•Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W. ;r or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.' S
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. : Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kaedec. Translated by Ann a
Blackwell. . Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d etudes psyoho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE RELIGIO-PHILOSOPHICAL
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism.' Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago.
HI.
Three copies post'free for 6d.
THE WRITINGS OF ’ EMANUEL SWE-
• DENBORG. DO THEY ENCOURAGE ADU LTERY
AND ITS KINDRED VICES ?. By Thomas Robinson.
. | Also other works by the same Author.
Address—H. Barlow and Son, Stationers, &c., Oldham-road,
Newtonheath, near Manchester.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT; By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof. of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
• The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Cjj* Spntalist Itefosppr.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS,:—Half-a-
A/ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition • Ten initial letter’s or
figures• count• as one-word. Displayed Advertisements Fiva
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist” is a very good medium tor advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first ,post on the previous Wedretday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor. • , , . : ; mwwim
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will he posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom, on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd. ,
■ City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
Printed' for the : Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. AiJjEN, Are
Marm-lane, London, E.C,
