AND JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 151.—(VOL. VII.—No. 3.) LONDON: JULY 16j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontents.
Spiritualism and Men of Science:—The Proposed Investigation of
Spiritual Phenomena at St. Petersburg University     ... .25
Spirit Teachings. No. XXXVII   27
Sunday Services in East London:—Inspirational Address by Mr. R.
Cogman—The Spiritual Nature of Man—Trance Address by Miss
Young  |  - ...   28
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris :—More Materialisations
through Mr. Firman's Mediumship—Seawces with the Lawyers ... 30
A Remarkable Seance with Mrs. Hardy    31
Spirit Poetry:—Margery Miller  ...  • 32
Sunday Services at the West-end:—Lecture by Dr. Sexton at the
Cavendish Rooms—The Doctrine of a Future Life ... ...    33
Correspondence:—Spiritualist Meetings in East London—Lectures at
,the Cavendish Rooms—A Curious Coincidence of Vision—The
Leymarie-Firman-Buguet Trial—Real and Sham Spirit-Photo¬
graphs      34
Mrs. Tappan in Edinburgh    35
Answers to Correspondents   36
Paragraphs:—Foreign Spiritualists in London, 32; Mr. Williams’
Seances, 35Mr. Tyerman’s Work in Australia, 35; Beard on
Spiritualism, 35; Next Week’s .Soiree, 35; A Lecture next Sunday,
36; Spirit Identity, 36; Mr. Cornelius Varley, 36; The Public
Funds of Spiritualists ... ...    36
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, ’and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and ip eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to5 join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &o., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET,' BLOOMSBURY,
RE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Sets a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
Will be published in a few days.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of St.
Alban's, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th. 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.
PSYCHOPATHIC AND MAGNETIC INSTITUTE
for the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR DISEASES,
1, Dunkeld-street, opposite Emmanuel Church, West Derby-road, Liver¬
pool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms per arrange¬
ment. J. Coates, Principal. Mesmeric Seances every Tuesday evening at 8.
Admission Is. Course of private instruction:—How to Mesmerise; to
obtain Biological Phenomena :procure Sleep; induce Somnambulism, &c.
Fee £1 Is.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, July 21sf, at tlmr Rooms, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Wobum-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the bmeflt of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the Brrash National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Peizb, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.G., qf
whom further particulars can be had on application,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 16, 1875
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OR SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman.'Benjatnin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Eitz-G-erald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Q-regory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balhatn, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry £>., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs.,46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betehworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A.,. 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newtoo, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-pa.rk-road Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.'
Dodd, J. T.. 28, Portland-piace, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-bill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
FiAz-Gerald, Desmond G„ M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, .Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-stteet, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W,
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, 8haftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Brvham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D„ Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, uld Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent. Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Oentral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.O.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St.'John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Uesident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
Genetalde 8.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Pacha Ahmed Rassim, Khande Rassim Pacha, h Bahdje' Capousson, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Voy, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.’
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris-
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammontou, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A,
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York,
U.S.A
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
C. Constant, Esq., Hotel St. Marc, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany. .
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia,
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Olavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., II, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samu»l Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9. Monrgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussfee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Allied Society.
 The Liverpool Psychological Society.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE,TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended;
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
• ROFESSOR REG-AN, ELECTRO-MAGNETIC
HEALER, is now open to give treatment to Patients at his resi¬
dence, or their own, by appointment. Fee, One Guinea. Address 59, Fin-
boro’-road, Retcliffe-gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Rbgistbe your Letts as.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon fas engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. w7 Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. olive, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
■VTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
■l-N of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily] from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
mHE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
JL THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. TylrmAN,
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
nd al 1 A ustralian Booksellers.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JLVi fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
P ARIS:—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard das
Capucines, Paris.
sJA»
gJ/ij
% flp yrujrm tx\ t|^ mb tx\
VOLUME ^EVEJH. jHUJVIBEF} THI\EE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 16th, 1876.
Ifcfo'sippr,
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS J-Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
han a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Alien, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within thd United Kingdom "on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spmtualist''> in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1889.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. H. G. Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay fAustria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason : Mr. N. Fabyan Da we;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg) ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London; Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-atLaw; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
' HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London .-’'Sinfkin, Marshall & Co.
SPIRITUALISM AND MEN OF SCIENCE.
THE PROPOSED INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AT
ST. PETERSBURG UNIVERSITY.
In the proposed investigation of the physical pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism by some of the professors at
St. Petersburg University, it is possible that it will be
difficult to obtain mediums. Nothing could be more
wearisome and disappointing to everybody concerned
than to introduce weak mediums for the purpose, for,
in the presence of unsympathetic people, the manifes¬
tations they usually obtained would be likely to cease
altogether, or to be so feeble as to prove inconclusive;
therefore it is necessary to have powerful mediums who
obtain manifestations with great certainty, so that, at
all events, the professors will undoubtedly have some¬
thing tangible to examine. Mrs. Fay, who would
have been a capital medium for the purpose, has
returned to the United States. Mr. Williams will not
go to St. Petersburg, so almost the only other profes¬
sional mediums suitable for the purpose are the Daven¬
port brothers.
Mr. Williams is fully engaged up to the end of
August next, and does not care to go to St. Petersburg
to submit himself to the judgment of scientific men.
Why should he do so ? The truth of the matter is,
that men of science have hitherto, with some few ex¬
ceptions, behaved in anything but an honourable manner
towards Spiritualism; and as their belief or disbelief
does not affect the progress of the movement to any
very great extent, whatever they say or do is now
regarded with considerable indifference by Spiritualists.
In 1857 a committee of the professors of Harvard
University undertook to investigate Spiritualism; they
published one report condemning what they saw, and
promised to state the results of “ additional investiga¬
tions.” Among these additional investigations were
some experiments with the Davenport brothers, and
the following is the account given by their English
biographer, Dr. T. L. Nichols, of what took place :—
“ At the beginning they were submitted to a cross-examina¬
tion. The professors exercised their ingenuity in proposing
tests. Would they submit to .be handcuffed?—Yes. Would
they allow men to hold them ?—Yes. A dozen propositions
were made, accepted, and then rejected by those who had
made them. If any test was accepted by the brothers, that
was reason enough for not trying it. They were supposed to
be prepared for that, so some other must be found. It was no
use to put them to any test to which they were ready and
apparently eager to submit.
“ At last the ingenious professors fell back upon rope—
their own rope, and plenty of it. They brought five hundred
feet of new rope, selected for the purpose; they bored the
cabinet set up in one of their own rooms, and to which they
had free access, full of holes; they tied the two boys iu the
most thorough and the most brutal manner. They have, as
any one may see or feel, small wrists, and hands large in pro¬
portion—good, solid hands, which cannot he slipped through
a ligature which fits even loosely on the wrists. When they
were tied, hand and foot, arms, legs, and in every way, and
with every kind of complicated knotting, the ropes were drawn
through the holes bored in the cabinet and firmly knotted
outside, so as to make a network over the hoys. After aU, the
knots were tied with linen thread.
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
“ Professor Pierce then took his place in the cabinet between
the two brothers, who conld scarcely breathe, so tightly were
they secured. As he entered, Professor Agassiz was seen to
put something in his hand. The side doors were closed and
fastened. The centre door was no sooner shut than the bolt
was shot on them inside, and Professor Pierce stretched out
both hands to see which of the two firmly bound boys had
done it. The phantom hand was shown; the instruments
were rattled ; the professor felt them about his head and face,
and at every moment kept pawing on each side with his hands
to find the boys both bound as firm as ever. Then the
mysterious present of Professor Agassiz became apparent. The
professor ignited [?] some phosphorus by rubbing it between
his hands, and half suffocated himself and the boys with its
fumes in trying to see the trick or the confederate.
“At last both boys were untied from all the complicated
fastenings without and within the cabinet; and the ropes
were found twisted around the neck of Professor Pierce.”
The professors of Harvard University broke their
promise, and did not publish the additional results.
In England, Earaday, before attending a smwce with
Mr. Home, asked Mr. Home if he would admit the
“ utterly contemptible character ” of the manifesta¬
tions. He also asked Mr. Home: “ Would an insult
to the spirits be considered an an insult to himself ?”
This is neither the language of an investigator nor of a
gentleman, and Mr. Home of course made no reply.
Professor Tyndall wrote to Mr. Home that he was
ready to investigate in the spirit of Faraday’s letter
(the insulting letter just quoted) such phenomena as
Mr. Home might “ wish to reveal to him.” Assuming
the spirits of the departed are now communicating
with man, why should they or Mr. Home wish to
reveal anything to Mr. Tyndall ? Who made him a
judge to decide whether the communication between
this world and the next should be established ?
When Mr. Crookes submitted to the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science some scientific
experiments, detailing physical results obtained with
mediums, a committee of scientific men refused to allow
the account of the said experiments to be read or dis¬
cussed before Section A, and Professor George Gabriel
Stokes, secretary to the Royal Society, wrote the
refusal to Mr. Crookes, adding insulting remarks about
what he called the “ tricks of Spiritualists.”
Dr. W. B. Carpenter, the eminent physiologist—in
which somewhat narrow groove of science he is a good
authority—also violently attacked Mr. Crookes on
several occasions. One night he told a Chelsea audience
that a paper by Mr. Crookes on Spiritualistic pheno¬
mena had been rejected by the Royal Society because
of a grievous scientific mistake in one of the experi¬
ments, which alleged blunder Dr. Carpenter exhibited
to the audience by means of apparatus which he fitted
up for the special purpose, out of charitable feeling to
a fellow-worker in science. How it so happened that
no such blunder was in the rejected paper, and if it
had been it was of such a trifling nature that it would
not have affected the argument; it would only have
caused a difference of a small fraction of an ounce in a
case where the scientific conclusions at issue depended
on differences amounting to pounds, and where any
mistake of even half a pound would have been of no
practical importance. But, as already stated, Mr.
Crookes never made the mistake at all, and when the
error was pointed out Dr. Carpenter made no apology
or retractation to him, or to the public, or to those who
paid him for the lecture, for the bogus experiment
which he fitted up and exhibited in the Yestry Hall at
Chelsea.
An ex-councillor of the Royal Society once asked us
July 16, 1875.
“ why Spiritualists did not ask the Royal Society to
investigate the phenomena.” Our reply was that
“ Spiritualists had already investigated them, and felt
little interest in the opinions of the Royal Society.”
The truth of the matter is, that in the occasional
scientific investigations of Spiritualism, neither Spirit¬
ualists nor the mediums care much about the results,
whereas the self-appointed judges hold the opinion that
the whole world hangs upon their decision, and that
what they say will settle everything. Ho learned body
can force an unpopular truth upon the world before its
time, consequently if any scientific body says that
these things are true, it merely prepares martyrdom
for itself; and other scientific bodies, with that kindliness
which is characteristic of the absence of Spiritualism,
will gravely come to the conclusion that the scientific
certificators of Spiritualism are mad, or the dupes of
impostors. These scientific committees are in reality
on their trial before mediums, and not the mediums on
trial before the committees. If the committees tell the
truth, their temporary sacrifice is great; if they save
their skins by evading the results, the martyrdom to
which the mediums may have been subjected is all
thrown away, and whichever way they decide makes
very little difference to Spiritualism.. In England,
thousands of families know the phenomena to be real,
and constantly see them in their own homes, conse¬
quently in the miAds of very great numbers of people
in this country the estimation of scientific men is at an
extremely low ebb, and they are scarcely awarded even
that respect to which they are honourably entitled for
the knowledge they give to the world in connection
with those subjects which they understand.
The wrists of Mrs. Fay are all scarred with the
burns made by clumsy investigators in sealing tapes
with wax. Colonel Olcott’s new book narrates how
Horatio Eddy, the celebrated American medium, was
tied at Lilia Falls, Hew York State, by a committee, to
a wooden T cross, by whipcord passed through holes
bored for the purpose. He was kept so for the space of
an hour, until, owing to the tightness of the ligaments
at the wrists, the blood trickled from under his finger
nails. Colonel Olcott says that the Eddy brothers have
been mobbed, stoned, shot at and reviled, that they
have been cicatrised by burning wax, by pinching
manacles, by the knife, by the bullet, and by boiling
water.
Another fault of scientific committees is, that although
they may have seen nothing of the manifestations, they
always know all about them beforehand, and insist
upon breaking all the conditions under which they
usually occur. For instance, Agassiz insisted upon
walking up and down the room, so that the quietness
and passivity essential to the production of results
with that particular medium could not be obtained.
When Agassiz was asked to sit at the table he refused.
It must be remembered that the Spiritualistic
movement has no control over mediums. Those of them
who get a professional livelihood are all working
independently, and if they are good mediums they can
get good engagements; they also have a connection of
respectable friends at whose houses they can give
seances, and be. protected from both outrage and insult.
What possible inducement have they then, with the
examples we have quoted before their eyes, to recognise
the authority of any committee which announces that
it is perfectly ready to sit in judgment upon them?
Men of science should show cause why mediums should
July 16, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
consent to be judged, and should give some guarantee
of honourable and gentlemanly treatment. What right
had the St. Petersburg professors, when a gentleman
once placed them under a deep obligation by kindly
attending to favour them by the presentation of some
new facts in science, to begin by intimating that he
was an impostor, by suddenly presenting a glass table,
and in their ignorance insisting upon receiving from
glass what had hitherto been obtained almost entirely
from wood ? Mr. Home would have paid them in their
own coin had he intimated that they, his hosts, were
impostors, and had he presented them with a wooden
cylinder with instructions to make it into a frictional
electrical machine.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXXVII.
[You said that the ancient records were not to be
depended on for literal accuracy. As to the Pentateuch,
is it the work of one author ?]
The Books to which you refer are the compilation of
the days of Ezra. They were compiled from more
ancient records, which were in danger of being lost,
and some parts of which had to be supplied from tradi¬
tion or memory. The original records of the days
previous to Moses did not exist; and the record which
you have in Genesis is partly imaginary, partly
legendary, and partly the transcript of records. The
account of the creation and the story of the deluge are
legendary. The account of the Egyptian Ruler,
Joseph, is transcribed from records. But in no case
are the books as they now stand the work of their
reputed author. They are the compilation of Ezra
and his scribes, and do but embody the conceptions
and legends of the period. The accounts which con¬
cern the Mosaic law are most exact, because precise
records of the code were preserved as sacred books, and
from thence the particulars were drawn up* We
mention this to avoid at once the necessity of replying
to a portion of these books which may be quoted as an
argument. The records themselves are not of literal
accuracy—in the earlier portions not to be relied on
at all, and in the later, only where they refer to that
part of the Mosaic record which was preserved.
[Imaginary, you say.~\
It was necessary to supply lost books, and what was
drawn up was from memory or legend.
[Do you say that the Seventy Elders were chosen because
they were mediums ? ]
In those days power was known to be increased by
spirit control, and the lawgiver who was so richly
blessed himself, chose those for positions of power and
responsibility who were endued like himself in kind
though not in degree. This was invariably the case.
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
And as tbe gift was more valued and more known, it
was more developed and cultivated. None would ven¬
ture on such responsible office unless he were endued
with power from on high. This is not so now; and
hence it is that the power itself is not now cultivated
as it was in those early days.
[We do not know. They used to isolate their mediums.']
That was universal wherever the power was known
and used.
[Abraham. You speak slightingly of him.]
No; but in comparison with the great spirit who
was to him God’s messenger, he was on a lower plane.
We do, not show man’s opinion in all such matters.
His name has been widely known: but he has played
no great part with us.
fThe translations of Enoch and Elijah. What were
they ?]
Legendary beliefs. A halo of glory was shed around
even the death of those whom men reverenced. In
earliest days the man who attracted to himself the
reverence of his fellows, and round whose name a
certain reverential awe had gathered, was fabled to
have been taken to join his God in the heaven for which
his life had fitted him. Moses, the mysterious agent of
Divine power, the commanding head of his people, was
so fabled to be mysteriously removed from earth. He
had talked familiarly with the Deity whom he had
revealed, and now he was to go to join Him. Elijah,
in like manner, the strange, weird, mysterious power,
who came and went as with the freedom of air, who
seemed to be guided by no human laws, governed by no
such restrictions as fence in man’s movements—he too,
it was imagined, was translated from earth to heaven
in such sort as he had lived. In all cases it was the
imaginings concerning an anthropomorphic God and a
material heaven that lay at the root of the fancy. We
have before told you that man can only receive such
ideas about God and heaven as he is fitted to grasp by
his spiritual development. In the early days of your
world’s history man pictured a God who was but an
omnipotent man—a man in every respect, with certain
qualities superadded, those qualities being such as man
would fancy as natural additions to the being with
which he was already acquainted. In other words,
man took the highest ideal of humanity, and added to
it certain qualities; the result he called Deity. In
this he was doing only what man has always done.
The human conception of Deity must ever be clouded
with mortal mist, even as the revelation of God can
only come through a mortal medium, and be propor¬
tioned to human capacity. This is a natural and in¬
variable consequence of the conditions under which you
exist. So, the knowledge of God being progressive,
and man having grown in wisdom, he discovers from
time to time that his conception of God must be revised.
The need is felt, and the additional light is given.
(This is the best answer to those among you who fancy
that man can learn nothing from us of God and the
spirit’s life and progress.)
So it is with regard to heaven. You have unlearned
much that previous ages have fancied about heaven.
And none save the most ignorant would now imagine
that a material body could find a home in heaven, as
once men thought it could. The time of material
heavens, into which mysterious beings who had been
deified on earth were translated bodily into the society
of an anthropomorphic God, is past. You do not
imagine God as an omnipotent, omnipresent man, living
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 16, 1875.
in a place where His throne is surrounded by a throng
who do nought else hut worship and adore, as men
would worship were they to see God amongst them on
earth. Such a heaven is but a baseless dream. Into
spirit-life spirit alone can enter. You know that you
have outgrown the fable of the bodily translation of a
material frame somewhere into the skies, there to live
as it had lived on earth, in the society of a God who
was human in all respects save that He was super¬
human, in a heaven which was borrowed from the
images of a vision which typified under a symbol
spiritual truth to John the Seer. You know that no
such God exists. A translation will await each good
and true man, but not of his human flesh and bones.
His glorified spirit shall rise from the dead and worn-
out shroud of flesh that has served its purpose, to a
brighter life than man has pictured, in a brighter heaven
than human seer has ever imaged.
[Ab doubt there cure a number of'legends which come in
the end to be accepted as truth. The difficulty is to know
truth from legend, and the danger, to uproot the tares
with the wheat. And even a myth may have a very dis¬
cernible meaning, and embody truth.']
It is so. The legends of which your sacred records
are full are in very many cases superstitious beliefs
that have centred round great names. There is a
nucleus of truth enveloped in a surrounding of myth.
We have frequently told you that man has erred greatly
in his conceptions of us and of our influence and work.
Some causes which have produced this result are beyond
his control, others he can govern. He cannot in the
childhood of his intellect grasp knowledge which his
mind has not the power to comprehend.
That is unavoidable. He cannot picture correctly a
condition of life which is utterly different from the
state in which he has lived, and with which alone he is
acquainted. He must be taught by illustration and
analogy. That too is unavoidable. But he heaps
together words and ideas which were intended to be
figurative, and constructs from them a notion which is
incoherent and absurd. Each step of knowledge will
lead you to see this more clearly.
Moreover, man has fancied that each revelation of
Gpd enshrines permanent truth of universal application,
of literal and exact accuracy. He did not see that man
is taught by us as man teaches his own children; and
accurate definitions of abstract truth do not suit the
comprehension of a child. With all the literalness of
a child, he accepts the very •vtmrds of revelation as
mathematically and logically accurate, and builds upon
them a number of theories, absurd in their nature, and
conflicting among themselves. The child accepts the
parent’s word unhesitatingly, and quotes it as law. It
is only later that he learns that he was being taught
in parables. Man has dealt with Revelation in the
same way. He has assumed literal exactness where
there is only Oriental imagery, and mathematical
accuracy where he has only a very fallible and fre¬
quently legendary record. So he has perpetuated
ignorant ideas about a jealous God, and a fiery hell,
and a heaven-in the skies where the elect are gathered,
and a physical resurrection, and a universal assize, and
such notions, which belong to the age of childhood and
are outgrown by the developed man. The man should
put: aside the notions of the child, and soar to higher
knowledge.
But in place of that legendary belief, primitive super¬
stitions, ignorant fancies, are perpetuated. The hyper¬
bolical visions of an imaginative people are taken for
hard fact; and a medley of fancy, folly, and truth is
jumbled together, which no reflecting mind on an
advanced plane of knowledge can continue to accept as
matter of belief. Eaith is the cord that has bound
together this incoherent mass. We cut that cord, and
bid you use your reason to try that which has been
received and held by faith alone. You will find much
in the mass that is of human invention, dating from the
infancy of man’s mind. You will reject, much that is
both cumbersome and profitless. But you will find a
residue that commends itself to reason, is attested by
your own experience, and is derived from God. You
will gather hints of what the good God destines for his
creatures. You cannot get more in your present state.
Sufficient that you enter on a new phase of being free
from the blunders and misconceptions too rife in the
present. You will, see by degrees that the past is
valuable principally for the light which it sheds on the
present, and the glimpses which it gives you of the
future.
This, as you should know by this, is the purpose of
our present work—to lead to purer and less dishonour¬
ing views of God, of life, and of progress than have
hitherto obtained among you. To this end we must
first point out the errors in your creed, the human
figments that have passed current for Divine truth, and
the legendary fancies that have become crystallized
into history, accepted by faith, but rejected by right
reason. We do but require patient and honest thought
on your part. Nor think that our work is all destruc¬
tion. We shall be able to construct when the rubbish
is removed. Till then, if we seem to be scattering
destruction broadcast, bethink you that wre are but
gathering the rubbish in heaps, and removing it,
preparatory to the erection of a noble edifice, a holier
temple to a divine God. -f Imperator.
♦SUNDAY SERVICES IN EAST LONDON.
INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS BY MR. R. COGMAN.
During the last sixteen years Mr. and Mrs. Cogman have
kept up a series of Sunday and week-day services in connec¬
tion with Spiritualism at the East-end of London, and have
done much to benefit the movement thereby. For the last
three years the meetings have been held at 15, St. Peter’s-
road, Mile-end, Mr. Cogman giving free admission to the
public twice a week.
Last Sunday night the service began with the singing of a
hymn, from which we quote the two opening verses :—
Welcome, angels pure and bright,
Children of tbe living light—
Welcome to our hqme on earth,
Children of the glorious birth.
Welcome, messengers of God,
Teaching not of anger’s rod;
Love for all earth’s weary throngs
Is the burden of your songs.
After a chapter from the Book of Job had been read,
Mr. Cogman, who occupied a small platform at one side of
the room, passed into the trance state. He then rose and
uttered the following prayer: Great and Infinite Power, from
whom cometh all knowledge, all life, all conception, all
spiritual life, all that can give to the creature the exemplifica¬
tion of spiritual individuality, give unto us, we pray Thee,
those things which will contribute to the mental and spiritual
development of our being. Thou art the greatest of all. Thou
art the Almighty Mind from whom cometh every good. Thou
dost bow down in Thy beneficence to the humblest of all Thy
creatures. Thy justice is beyond the finite understanding, for
Thou art ever willing to lend an ear to every cry and to attend
to the necessities of every creature. Thou beholdest all things
at a single glance; Thy vision penetrates all nature, because
in Thee is infinite knowledge and abundance of power. Help
us to' discover true wealth—that superior wealth which will
remain with us throughout our pilgrimage below, until we
29
July 16, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.
enter the rest which is promised to every spiritual being.
Speak to inquiring minds in the quietude of their souls.
Whisper to them in the morning of their thoughts, and help
them to grow to the stature of the Christ-knowledge. These
things we seek for the spiritualisation of Thy creatures. We
beseech Thee to hear, to answer, and to bless. Amen.
Another hymn was then sung.
Mr. Gogman, still in the trance state, said, under spirit-
influence, that the listeners might furnish a subject for a
discourse if they had anything which they wished to be
considered.
A listener asked whether “The Origin of Thought ” was a
suitable subject.
Mr. Cogman said that it would involve the same arguments
as the origin of life ; it was more suitable as a question than
as a subject for an evening’s discourse, and it involved tech¬
nical details which might not be interesting to a general
audience. (Hear, hear.)
After a prolonged pause, another speaker suggested the
subject of “ The Crucifixion; its Cause, and its Influence in
After Ages.”
Mr. Cogman said that the subject was an exceedingly simple
one—simple in its cause, because it was a common practice in
those days when individuals broke the civil law to make them
subject to the punishment fixed for breaking that law. The
subject had been discussed on the previous Sunday, so that
the consideration of it on this occasion would lead to a some¬
what similar discourse.
Another speaker suggested “ Spiritual Gifts ” as a subject,
but added that he thought it was best to leave the whole
matter to the controlling spirit to do as he pleased.
THE SPIRITUAL NATURE OF MAN.
Mr. Cogman said that as nobody appeared to have prepared
themselves with a subject beforehand, the spirits would rather
take their own course, especially as everybody seemed at a
loss to find an interesting theme. The subject would be:
“ Has Man a Spiritual Nature? If so, what are its demands
upon those resources upon which it is able to draw?” A
superficial examination would not give man much information
about his spiritual nature; the religions of the present day
were not sufficient to bring him into contact with those
thoughts and ideas which would yield him spiritual benefit,
because they forced the mind to run in certain grooves, and to
become subservient to ceremonial usages. The aspirant after
spiritual things was not allowed to rove freely in the fields of
universal thought; thus his soul was in prison, bound with
chains which could not be broken, except when the spontaneous
desire arose for better things. Spirituality did not depend upon
education, caste, or clan; it depended upon intuition, which
springs up within the breast independently of books and inde¬
pendently of social customs; it was in its very nature spon¬
taneous, and it had its wants supplied from the spirit-world, just
as nature with her sunshine and her showers is always ready
to contribute to the external wants of man. Man is cleansed
and developed by these internal powers, which are found in all
their sublimity in that region which belongs exclusively to the
soul. When man craves for freedom for his spiritual nature
he becomes also a free individual; he arises from the dust and
is able to hold communion with spiritual powers. It mattered
not on that occasion whether these powers were centred in
individuals or not, for when the spiritual perceptions were
opened, then the soul of man reached towards that tree whose
branches were ever hanging within his reach, laden with the
fruits of spiritual knowledge; he was then emancipated from
the various forms and empty symbols which influence society,
and he had succeeded in reaching the crystal fields of eternal
thought. There was no room for individuality in modern
religious systems, hence the necessity for what was called
?* church fellowship,” in which all subscribed to a stereotyped
creed; but every man ought to be a church in himself and to
walk into the beautiful moonbeams of spirit-life in which
angels dwell with men. Knowledge of ancient history or of
religious creeds gave no spirituality ; it tended rather to destroy
those principles of action which should operate upon the lives
of men. The spirituality of each being must be fed with some¬
thing beyond man-made creeds and ceremonies a creed was
something compiled by man, and must be believed by the
recipients without the asking of a question; devotees were
called upon to take the creeds as they stood, and were not
allowed to use their intelligence in the matter. But in spiritual
life man has to think freely, and his spiritual nature then
stretches forth to the spiritual sun, and drinks in its beams
until the creature is satisfied that he is walking in accordance
With spiritual law. Some persons might say that they were in
doubt as to the authority on which such teachings were based ;
well, they had a right to be apprehensive, but they would not
have been in doubt had not a false edifice been built up in
their , minds when very young, and having run so long in con¬
sequence upon a particular high road, they now found it diffi¬
cult to receive a free revelation and to become spiritual indi¬
viduals. Suppose they resolved to cling to the teachings of
their progenitors, they must remember that they had a mental
appetite, so they would find the problem before them, whether
the spiritual food of their forefathers was digestible, and would
it agree with their spiritual stomach, which was known to
them by the name of “ reason ? ” Thus the prospect
was very dark in that direction, and Spiritualism was shining
before them like a beacon light in their path, asking
them to seek their own redemption; asking them to
individualise themselves, to think for themselves, and to
draw nearer to the Infinite Mind. That Infinite Mind, as the
very name implied, was utterly beyond the finite conception,
although in their early days they had been deluded into the
idea that this Infinite Mind was so well known and understood,
that men had been able to delineate and to put its attributes
on paper, as if they were as familiar to the recorder as the
clothes he wore. Thus man had been told that the Infinite
Mind was loving and revengful, that it encouraged war, that it
loved peace, that it was jealous and full of loving-kindness ; so
man had been deluded into error in the attempt to narrow the
Infinite to that which could be grasped and delineated. Per¬
sons who still held these ideas were in the swaddling clothes
of spiritual development and spiritual knowledge ; their errors
could not be removed at once by the teachings of spirits, who
line by line and precept by precept hoped to remove the
spiritual mists, and so build up their listeners in strength and
usefulness.
Another hymn was then sung.
A TRANCE ADDRESS BY MISS YOUNG.
Miss Young, an inspirational medium who attends Mr. Cog-
man’s Sunday meetings with considerable regularity, then
passed into the trance state and said: From the commence¬
ment of time, ever since the creation of the world, there has
been something acting outside man’s natural body—there has
been a power permeating all space ; this power has breathed
upon man and enlightened him, and gathered for him what is
necessary for his spiritual development; yet man has walked
through the plane of earth-life not knowing by whom he has
been led, or whither he is going, or what reception he will
have in the after-life. Some have believed that as flowers
bloom upon the earth and fade away, even so will man perish
and never be heard of more. Yet prophets have come forth
telling of truths unknown. Some also have told of heaven and
hell, yet at the same time have informed you that none of your
departed friends have returned from the life beyond, to say
what is true upon these points ; they tell you that at death the
spirit for ever leaves the earth. If that gulf has ever been
crossed in the past, why should it not be crossed now ? Yet if
we say to men that we live upon the earth, they reply, “ Ye
are of the devil; we know that there is no return of the spirit
to man, for our departed friends are covered with a canopy of
light and beauty, or wrapt in the sombre darkness of hell, sur-
sounded by burning fire and brimstone.” In the face of these
teachings, we shall give you knowledge, we shall be of use to
you in your journey to the realms of spirit. Inquire into
Spiritualism then. Go before the world and bear witness if
there is truth in spiritual manifestations, for to-day do
spirits come to thy cot and tell thee of the life beyond.
Persevere in the search after spiritual knowledge. Build up
the spiritual structure, and do not depend upon mortal
man for thy light, for thy soul’s salvation. If you
are to be saved, you are to be saved from your prejudices,
and from your misconceptions; let your prejudices go to the
winds, together with all ceremonies and formalities ; seek for
liberty, light, and knowledge, and do what is right and pure
so far as the light within you permits ; you will thus gain a
foretaste of heaven upon earth. Even as ye work and toil
here in the path of duty so do ye lay the bricks of spirit¬
uality, which will form your house in the life to come.
Your friends in the spirit-land have not now free entry
into every house, but the day is fast coming when all preju¬
dices shall be removed, when we shall show ourselves and
walk visibly with men. Ye are sowing seed, and the fruit
will come after many days, although ye cannot see the growth
of the tree. Go forward, dear brothers and sisters, searching
for truth in whatever form ye can, and ye shall learn
things new and old from those who have lived in the past.
I Mr. Cogman then passed into the trance state again, and
30
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 16, 1875.
under the influence of another spirit made a few remark
upon the length of a recent discourse which it appears occu
pied an hour and a half in delivery. The spirit said, “ We
cannot apologise, because if the words were long, and made
up long sentences in connection with a long subject, of
course it took a long time to do it.”
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
MORE MATERIALISATIONS THROUGH MR. FIRMAN’S MEEIUMSHIF.
SEANCES "WITH THE LAWYERS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist”
July 7th.—Sir,—My last letter, giving you an account of
these flne materialisations afforded through the mediumship of
Firman before going to prison (for the crime of being a medium
in Paris), closed on the 5th. I related what Comte de Bullet
had told me (and confirmed on its being read to him), and
what I had seen with my own eyes, heard with my own ears,
and felt with my own touch. The indefatigable Comte has
been holding his seances with him twice a daly, morning and
evening, to profit by the short time yet remaining before the
gates of his unmerited prison close upon poor Firman. His
seances have all been good, some more, some less so. The two
young girls I told about (deceased sisters of the countess) each
time appeared. On one occasion again occurred the same
phenomenon mentioned in my last, that of the spirit, with
her light, being seen to sink slowly through and under the
table, and being visible there through it from above, the top of
the table having become transparent or vaporised into transpa¬
rency, and again rising through it to the former position above
it. Besides the two, ” Mathilde ” and “ Carmita,” a third one
also appeared in the materialised form, as she has often before
done. She is “ Alexandrina,” a fair young girl, sister of an
intimate Russian friend of Comte de Bullet. On one of these
occasions Mathilde and Carmita appeared standing one on
each side of Firman, each with a hand resting on his head—
all three clearly visible together. A chair had been placed on
the bed in which he sat, instead of his lying down as when I
saw what I described in my last—and described with the
severest exactness. On the evening of the 5th they told the
Comte that they would come to his own residence (Hotel de
VAthenee), because their sister, the Countess, would be glad
to see them. It so took place accordingly last evening, and
was a perfect success. The Comte tells me he thinks of
writing it out. He says it was in some respects the best
seance he has had. He handed a couple of flowers which
happened to be in the room to his spirit sisters-in-law. They
stuck them in their hair, as girls in the sweet flesh might have
done. They asked for some cotton. He supposed it to mean
cotton cloth for some purpose or other, and proceeded to see if
it could be got. “No; sewing cotton.” A quantity was fur-
.nished them. Sounds were then heard behind the closed
curtain. It was soon drawn aside from within, and there,
in the hands of one of them was a beautiful wreath of white
roses, with a faint blush in the centre cluster, which they had
bound or sewed together with the cotton, fastening it to a
pretty solid foundation of grass twisted together, which also
they had brought as well as the roses. And theypwt the wreath
on their sister’s head. The rest of the cotton was presently
wound by invisible hands round the neck and arms of the
persons present, the, Count and Countess, and Mr. Firman.
They seemed to enjoy very much the music of a magnificent
and very large musical box, which the Comte had had made in
Geneva, to express various musical airs (chiefly religious, and all
beautiful) composed by his wife, the Countess, and composed
by her under the inspiration, or the supposed or self-imagined
inspiration, of spirits. For who can define the exact boundary
line in such supposed “ inspiration ” between the subjective
action of the still embodied spirit and the objective action
upon it of other disembodied ones ? At any rate the music
was strange as well as sweet, and what might easily be
imagined to be of extraneous inspiration. They said (or one of
them) that they would try to give a good seance the following
evening at M. Carraby’s, and would do their best.
The above is, of course, second hand, I relating what the
Comte has just related to me. I will, of course, make it
first hand by submitting it to him for his approval of the cor¬
rectness of my report of it. I have since done so, and your
readers may accept it as coming direct from himself, and, in
curious accordance with what I have above remarked about the
music, he, mentions that when it was heard by Hertz (the
world-renowned pianist—no Spiritualist), he observed that
there was something in it he could not understand—it seemed
inspiration.
July 8 th, Wednesday.—Well,we held the promised seance last
evening at M. Carraby’s. About a dozen persons present.
Absolute, total failure. Not even a rap, at the preliminary
dark seance, which was protracted nearly an hour, Firman
sitting with the rest at the table. At the light seance for
materialisation, he being in the cabinet, no appearance, move¬
ment of the curtain, nor sound. After some twenty to thirty
minutes of patient waiting—only relieved by the beauty of the
music from the box—Firman draws the curtain aside and
comes out, saying he could not get to sleep, and it was of no
use going on. General disappointment. A violent electric
storm was raging outside. Heavy rain and thunder occasion¬
ally, and frequent flashes of lightning. Firman said that it
was difficult to obtain anything when there was lightning going
on. Comte de Bullet tells me that he thinks the over-excited
and anxious state of the medium’s mind had a good deal to do
with the failure; that he sat next to Mrs. Firman, holding her
hand, and that she was in a constant tremble. They knew the
importance of showing to M. Carraby the truth of materialisa¬
tion, and Firman’s fate might probably depend on it. Anyhow,
there was the disappointing fact, total failure. The persons
present brought a fair condition of mind—ignorance and dis¬
belief, of course, but no acrid hostility ; a candid willingness
to see proof and then to give it a fair acceptance. And I
believe that this is a mental condition of spectators generally
perfectly acceptable to spirits. May it be that timid spirits of
young girls might shrink, and thereby be prevented from
showing themselves materialised to a dozen strangers, while
confiding and free in doing so to their familiar relative and a
single congenial friend ?
Another seance was agreed upon for Friday evening, the 10th,
at the same place, with the same company.
July 9th.—Comte de Bullet had an excellent seance to-day,
at which he was told that they were there, but could do nothing
on account of the electric storm and the medium’s personal
condition ; that the company was satisfactory, and they would
try to do better the next (this) evening.
July 10th.—Well, we had our second seance at M. Carraby’s
last evening. The same company, excepting that two absent
were replaced by two hew. The preliminary dark seance—
Firman seated at the table—gave nothing satisfactory. After
a long waiting, a few slight raps ; a few slight responses to in¬
quiries ; sometimes no responses; at last “ cabinet ” demanded.
Then, of course, followed the cabinet or half-light seance. I
should have mentioned that Firman—on his own suggestion
and my insistance, though politely opposed by M. Carraby—
had been taken into another room and well searched. Nothing
on or about him. Nothing in the cabinet but a chair. The
opening in the curtain about three feet above his head. A long
time of waiting. We begin again to despair. The curtain is
a very thick and heavy one. At last it is slowly drawn aside,
at the right. A white girl-form appears. It is the “ Carmita ”
familiar to Bullet, and before seen by me ; but she does not come
forward well into the light as she had done before, nor does any
action take place as before, nor any speaking, and in a few seconds
the curtain dropped over her. Nor had it been withdrawn far
enough to show Firman simultaneously, he being seated in the
middle of the wide cabinet. This is repeated a second time.
She also shows her little face for a few instants at the window.
Also, on our urgent request, at other side of the cabinet, but
very briefly, and with the curtain less widely drawn. And this
was all—a partial but insufficient success. The glimpses of
what we saw were too short; nor was there this time the essen¬
tial thing of simultaneous view of spirit and medium. The
company seemed generally impressed and satisfied, but I was
not. I neither asked nor heard M. Carraby’s own opinion.
To my critical view (though perfectly satisfied of the
genuineness of it by reason of my anterior experience) it was
not scientifically satisfactory. I could imagine modes and
means, rather far-fetched indeed, through which it might have
been fradulently produced. I should have rendered the Scotch
verdict, “ Not Proven.” And in this matter we want, and
must have, more and better than that. I privately arranged
with Bullet and M. Carraby, the counsel, that they should
come alone to-morrow evening to another seance, when Fir¬
man should be in his bed-cabinet, as Bullet and I have before
witnessed such incomparably better manifestations. It will be
easy to make the conditions test ones ; and I will pursue this
journalized letter to-morrow. This form of narration is better
than a summary of the whole given at the end, which I might
perhaps then find myself too busy to write out. Remember,
too, that in such matters failures and only incomplete suc¬
cesses are not less instructive than the entire successes of
other occasions. I had not contemplated writing you again,
July 16, 1875.
31
THE SPIRITUALIST.
but having begun to chronicle these things I find I must go
through with it. And, however it may turn, you shall have
to-morrow whatever shall occur this evening.
July 11th.—You have read what precedes. Last evening, I
regret to say, there was again nothing but failure. We met at
Firman’s, the Comte de Bullet, myself, M. Carraby, and another
lawyer friend added by them. Mr. Firman’s spirits had pro¬
mised in the morning that they would come in the evening
and do their best. Yet we got nothing but a few unsatisfac¬
tory raps. The only persons touched were the Comte, pretty
freely, and myself once. It was in vain that they were en¬
treated to touch one of the other three strangers present. At
the cabinet seance there was absolutely nothing. The alphabet
being called for, it was said, “No power.” Firman said he
had only been half asleep. And yet in the morning the Comte
had witnessed splendid manifestations—the curtains thrown
wide upon, Firman visible, seated in an arm-chair asleep, and
the three spirit-forms beautiful and complete. One of them
(“ Mathilde ”) floated horizontally, her drapery swelling out so
as to form a pillow, on which her head rested. We propose
to make one other attempt for M. Carraby on Tuesday, after
which Firman’s address will be at St. Pdlagie. The Comte
again confirms the correctness of my statement of his personal
seances, derived of course from himself.
I have thus given your readers fairly the pour and the contre,
the failures as well as the successes. I hope that the honesty
of the one will at least serve to confirm (to readers to whom I
am a stranger) the correctness of the other.
Leymarie’s appeal trial is appointed for the 4th of August.
We are endeavouring to make Lachaud go this time into the
real question of spirit-photography, but he is a man who
speaks but little (out of court), and who never will consider a
case till within a few days of trial. Small blame to him, for
his apprehension is very rapid when he does take it up, and
he has an .average of a case and a half a day on his hands.
I enclose you some slips from the appendix to his pamphlet,
now delayed only for the revision of their speeches by the
lawyers. They will speak for themselves. Here you see the
Buguet who denies having ever pretended to mediumship,
and accuses Leymarie of having been cognisant of his trickery 1
How and by whom he was afterwards manipulated into the
swift witness of falsehood he became against Leymarie and
Firman we shall probably never know, for, even should
he hereafter confess back, how even then believe him ? It may
have been through the mere operation of a small cunning of
his own, prompting the idea that he would thus curry favour
with the authorities hostile to Spiritism, and open up a new
vein of profit from the public by presenting himself in the
transformed character of an antfi-Spiritualist, which would give
him a new vogue, his former one being played out.
M. Laohaud has applied in vain to the authorities for per¬
mission to submit Buguet’s collection of heads to the inspec¬
tion of some of his proposed witnesses with a view to com¬
paring them with photographs containing recognised and
remarkable portraits of persons deceased. This is French
administration of justice. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris.
A REMARKABLE SEANCE WITH MRS. HARDY.
Last Monday night a private seance, convened by Mr.
Harrison, was held in the seance room of the British Na¬
tional Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Bussell-street,
London, W.O. The sitters present were Mr. and Mrs. Hardy,
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs.
Schletter and the Misses Schletter, Mr. Z. Test, M.D., Mr.
H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Miss Katherine Poyntz, Miss Kisling-
bury, Captain James, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Before the seance began, two small square tables were placed
about four inches apart by Mr. Selwood, who wound a length
of green cloth round them, so that it reached from the top
edges of the tables to the floor; some more cloths were then
thrown over the tops of the tables so as to leave an opening
between the surfaces of the tables about sixteen inches long
by four broad ; thus, by means of these cloths there was a
dark cabinet below the surface of the tables which nobody
could enter, and into which not even the knees of the sitters
who were round the tables could pass, since the cloths were
not merely drooping from the tops of the tables, but were
wound all round and nailed.
After the sitters had taken their places, the gaslight was
turned down very low for about five minutes, the darkness
being stated to be favourable for the materialisation of hands
by the spirits. The gas was then turned up so as to give
slightly less light than a common candle flame, and during
the next three-quarters of an hour hands of various sizes and
shapes came up through the opening. They occasionally
grasped and pinched Miss Schletter and other of the
sitters, who by permission passed their hands down through
the opening between the tables. Some of the hands
which came up seemed to have little flexibility or
power of motion in the fingers; others could move the
fingers freely. Some of the hands had nails with which
they could scratch ; other of the hands felt as if covered with
a kid glove, perhaps because spirit hands can resist the light
better when covered. When one hand came up through the
opening a heavy slate was given to it, which it seized and
knocked upon the floor, then after two or three minutes’ delay
pushed it out once more through the opening, the delay being
caused, it was stated, by want of power to lift it again at once.
All through this seance Mrs. Hardy was seated with the rest
of the spectators, in full view, with both her hands on the top
of the table.
After this sitting was over the cloths were removed, and the
cabinet formed by the tables was pulled to pieces by the spec¬
tators ; there was nothing inside, and throughout the seance the
hands of all the sitters had been on the top of the tables in
sight of each other. Next the visitors seated themselves in
strong gaslight round a very large and heavy square table,
covered with a blue cloth. Spirit-hands carried a slate about
underneath the table, and while one or other of the sitters in
turn held the slate with one hand by one corner, under the
table, he or she felt the spirits writing on it with materialised
hands. As each spirit wrote, the pressure of the hand against
the slate was exactly of the same nature as if a mortal
had been writing. One of the names written upon the slate
was “ Lizzie,” a spirit who professed to know Dr. Test. When
he examined the writing he said, “This handwriting is as
characteristic as can be ; I can show you dozens of signatures
so like this one that you could not distinguish the difference
between them if they were put together.”
A message to Mr. Jenoken about Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox),
who is now in the United States, was given as follows : “ Kate
and baby are well.” Mr. Jencken asked the spirits to give the
name of the steamer in which Mrs. Jencken would leave New
York, but they did not give the information.
Mr. Harrison asked the spirits to give some general mes¬
sage conveying spirit-teachings to the company, and they wrote
upon the slate, “ Let your lives be such as will be a credit to
the age.” Mr. Harrison then asked how it was that many
spirit-messages so resembled the precepts which children have
to write over and over again in their copy books at school,
such as “Persevere and you will succeed,” “ Procrastination is
the thief of time,” and so on. To this question no reply was
given.
During all these manifestations the hands of Mrs. Hardy
and those of all the sitters were visible on the top of the
table, except sometimes, when either the medium or one or
other of the sitters was requested to hold the slate by one
corner under the table. Occasionally all hands were on the
top, and the slate moving about underneath in the hands of
the spirits, who then let it fall upon the floor at the moment
requested. They repeated this manifestation three times
while the hands of all the mortals present were in full view.
After another break in the seance a dark circle was held.
Mrs. Hardy sat in the centre of the circle and all the guests
sat round her in a ring holding each others’ hands. At Mrs.
Hardy’s request, Mr. Harrison put his feet on either side of
her feet, to make sure that she did not move them during the
seance. Mrs. Hardy then proceeded to clap her two hands
slowly together all through the seance, so that everybody
could hear the noise. Although, as letters which have been
published in this journal have shown, this test of the non-use
of the hands of the medium in producing manifestations is
not exactly perfect, since the same noise may be made by
slapping the face with one hand while the other hand is free,
it is quite enough for all practical purposes in any powerful
dark seance. For instance, last Monday night spirit-hands
were touching the sitters all round the circle, and when Mrs.
Hardy requested each sitter to call out when touched, it
at once became evident that hands were busy all round the
circle at the same time, before, behind, and on either side of
Mrs. Hardy.
The circle was an exceedingly harmonious one, so that the
manifestations were strong, and the spirits did not seem to
tire in giving them; in fact, the seance lasted for nearly two
hours and a half, and was considered altogether to be of a
character calculated to convince the most sceptical, had any
such been present, which was not the case.
32
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 16, 1875
SPIRIT POETRY.
Miss Lizzie Doten’s beautiful Poems of the Inner Life are
well known to English Spiritualists; she has published another
volume, Poems of Progress, the said poems having also been
given through her trance mediumship. We select the follow¬
ing as a specimen :—
Margery Miller.
Old Margery Miller sat alone
One Christmas-eve by her poor hearthstone,
Where dimly the fading firelight shone.
Her brow was furrowed with signs of care,
Her lips moved gently, as if in prayer—
For oh ! life’s burden was hard to bear.
- Poor old Margery Miller !
Sitting alone,
Unsought, unknown,
Her friends like the birds of summer had flown.
Full eighty summers ha'd swiftly sped,
Full eighty winters their snows had shed,
With silver sheen, on her aged head.
One by one had her loved ones died,
One by one had they left her side,
Fading like flowers in their summer pride.
Poor old Margery Miller!
Sitting alone,
Unsought, unknown—
Had God forgotten she was His own ?
No castle was hers with a spacious lawn,
Her poor old hut was the proud man’s scorn;
Yet Margery Miller was nobly born.
A brother she had who once wore a crown,
Whose deeds of greatness and high renown
From age to age had been handed down.
Poor old Margery Miller 1
Sitting alone,
Unsought, unknown,
Where was her kingdom, her crown or throne ?
Margery Miller, a child of God,
Meekly and bravely life’s path had trod,
Nor deemed affliction a “ chastening rod.”
Her brother Jesus, who went before,
A crown of thorns in His meekness wore;
And what, poor soul! could she hope for more ?
Poor old Margery Miller !
Sitting alone,
Unsought, unknown,
Strange that her heart had not turned to stone.
Aye, there she sat, on that Christmas-eve,
Seeking some dream of the past to weave,
Patiently striving not to grieve.
Oh, for those long, long eighty years
How had she struggled with doubts and fears,
Shedding in secret unnumbered tears !
Poor old Margery Miller 1
Sitting alone,
Unsought, unknown,
How could she stifle her sad heart’s moan ?
Soft on her ear fell the Christmas chimes,
Bringing the thought of the dear old times,
Like birds that sing of far distant climes.
Then swelled the flood of her pent-up grief;
Swayed like a reed in the tempest brief,
Her bowed form shook like an aspen leaf.
Poor old Margery Miller 1
Sitting alone,
Unsought, unknown,
How heavy the burden of life had grown 1
“ 0 God I ” she cried, “ I am lonely here,
Bereft of all that my heart holds dear,
Yet Thou dost never refuse to hear.
” Oh, if the dead were allowed to speak!
Could I only look on their faces meek,
How it would strengthen my heart so weak ! ”
Poor old Margery Miller!
Sitting alone,
Unsought, unknown,
What was that light that around her shone?
Dim on the hearth burned the embers red,
Yet soft and clear on her silvered head
A light like the sunset glow was shed.
Bright blossoms fell on the cottage floor,
“ Mother ” was whispered, as oft before,
And long lost faces gleamed forth once more.
Poor old Margery Miller!
No longer alone,
Unsought, unknown,
How light the burden of life had grown 1
She lifted her withered hands on high,
And uttered the eager, earnest cry,
“ God of all mercy 1 now let me die.
“Beautiful angels, fair and bright,
Holding the hem of your garments white,
Let me go forth to the world of light.”
Poor old Margery Miller !
So earnest grown I
Was she left alone?
His humble child did the Lord disown ?
0 sweet was the sound of the Christmas bell,
As its musical changes rose and fell,
With a low refrain or a solemn swell.
But sweeter by far was the blessed strain
That soothed old Margery Miller’s pain,
And gave her comfort and peace again.
Poor old Margery Miller 1
In silence alone,
Her faith had grown,
And now the blossom had brightly blown.
Out of the glory that burned like flame,
Calmly a great white angel came,
Softly he whispered her humble name.
“ Child of the Highest,” he gently said,
“ Thy toils are ended, thy tears are shed,
And life immortal now crowns thy head. ”
Poor old Margery Miller 1
No longer alone,
Unsought, unknown,
God had not forgotten she was His own.
A change o’er her pallid features passed,
She felt that her feet were nearing fast
The land of safety and peace at last.
She faintly murmured, ” God’s name be blest! ”
And folding her hands on her dying breast,
She calmly sank to her dreamless rest.
Poor old Margery Miller 1
Sitting alone,
Without one moan,
Her patient spirit at length had flown.
Next morning a stranger found her there,
Her pale hands folded as if in prayer,
Sitting so still in her old arm-chair.
He spoke, but she answered not again,
Far, far away from all earthly pain,
Her voice was singing a joyful strain.
Poor old Margery Miller 1
Her spirit had flown
To the world unknown,
The world of rest for the weary and lone.
Mr. Gledstanes is expected to reach London in a day or
two from Paris.
Foreign Spiritualists in London.—Within the last
few days several friends from foreign countries, interested in
Spiritualism, have visited the reading-room of the National
Association of Spiritualists at 38, Great Bussell-street. Among
these have been Mdlle, Marie Karlovitch from St. Petersburg,
who is travelling through Europe to observe and to learn all
she can about Spiritualism. Dr. Test, who has seen so much
of the Baroness von Yay’s seances in Austria, and who will
leave for the United States in a month or two, is also a fre¬
quent visitor at the new offices. Some Dutch friends have
visited the rooms, and also Mrs. Barwick, of Cape Town, an
intimate friend of Mr. W. L. Sammons, the representative of
the Association in South Africa. Friends from Australia
and Holland have also called this week, and the establish¬
ment generally is found to be appreciated by foreign visitors.
Three or four have called recently from Belgium.
July 16, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
33
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE WEST-END.
LECTURE BT DR. SEXTON AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
On Sunday evening last Dr. Sexton delivered a discourse at
tire Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, London,
on the “ Doctrine of the Future Life as Taught in the Old
Testament Scriptures.” A tolerably good audience was in
attendance, notwithstanding the fact that the evening was
exceedingly wet. The preliminary part of the service was
conducted as usual by Mr. F. M. Parkes, and Miss Sexton
presided at the new organ. Dr. Sexton’s discourse was devoted
to the purpose of showing that a clear and distinct notion of
the future life pervaded the whole of the Old Testament
writings, despite the attempt of Bishop Warburton and other
eminent men to prove the reverse.
THE DOCTRINE OF A FUTURE LIFE.
Dr. Sexton, in the course of his discourse, said —
Whether the doctrine of a future life is taught in the Old
Testament is a question upon which much has been written
at different times, and to the discussion of which some of the
greatest minds have lent their powers. The conclusions
arrived at are somewhat diverse, according to the light in
which the subject was viewed and the tone of the mind
brought to bear upon it. Amongst the opinions that have
been entertained with regard to this matter, I may name three,
as follows:—
1. A great number of the Rationalists at the present time
maintain that the doctrine of a future life is nowhere taught
in the Old Testament. I am not aware that any one who
believed in the inspiration and Divine authority of the Book
has ever taken this view, but still, as it has been held by
scholars who profess to judge of the teachings of the Bible
as they would judge of the contents of any other volumes, it
is certainly worthy of consideration. Bishop Warburton in
his well-known work on the Divine Legation of Moses laboured
hard to show that not only did the great lawgiver omit the
doctrine of a future life entirely from his teaching, but that
an argument in favour of the divine authority of his mission
was to be deduced from that fact. The bishop, however,
would have been the first to admit that at a later period of
the Jewish history some glimpse of immortality was obtained
by that people, from whatever source it might have come, and
that an intimation of the fact is to be found in the books
which appeared after Moses’ time. And there are persons
still living who, following Dr. Priestley, profess to hold by
Christianity and yet deny the immortality of the soul, be¬
lieving that the future state is to be realised only after the
resurrection of the material body. Such people of course
would not discover the separate existence of spirit either in
the Old or the New Testament, but they would nevertheless
find in both the doctrine of the resurrection plainly set forth.
They therefore could not be considered as belonging to the
class to which I referred, of those who maintain that no kind of
immortality was known to the ancient Hebrews.
The( arguments advanced by those who deny that the doctrine
of "a future life is taught in the Old Testament are based
mainly upon two or three passages which, taken by themselves
seem to point to the grave as the final termination of human
existence, and upon the fact that the words in the Hebrew
which have been translated soul, spirit, and so on, do not ne¬
cessarily imply the separate existence of any so-called spiritual
portion of man. The term liuach, the Hebrew word for spirit,
is very frequently used in the sense of breath or air, as in fact
is the Greek word irvevg.a, and the synonymous terms in
almost every language. The other Hebrew word, Nephesh,
which is usually translated “ soul,” is repeatedly employed to
describe the entire person, just as we use its English synonym
to-day when we say, “ There was not a single soul in the place,”
meaning thereby not that spirits were not there, but that no
persons were present. In all languages the words used to
describe spirit are terms which are often applied to material
things, and which do not necessarily therefore, when employed,
imply that a spiritual being is spoken of. Our English word
is applied in common to the immortal part of man, and to a
fluid productive of anything but spiritual results. The Latin
term is used in the same way, and the Greek word frequently
signifies air, as is evidenced by the circumstance that the
science which deals with the air is called pneumatic at the
present time. The fact, therefore, that Nephesh and Ruach,
and other Hebrew terms to which I shall refer to again pre¬
sently, are sometimes used to describe material things, by no
means proves that they are not on other occasions employed,
and correctly, to set forth spiritual existence.
2. The great bulk of orthodox Christians hold that the
doctrine of a future life is taught unmistakably, and in the
plainest language, throughout the whole of the Old Testament
books. They maintain that the Jews from the earliest period
of their history were perfectly familiar with the fact, not only
that there is a life after death, but that the future state is one
of retribution, designed for the reward of virtue and the
punishment of vice.
3. Somewhat intermediate between these two sets of
opinions may bo found a third, which teaches that a general
belief in the reality of a future life prevailed amongst the
ancient Hebrews, but that the teachings respecting it in the
Old Testament were extremely vague and indefinite, and that
the region itself was one of gloom, silence, and darkness, and
peopled with shadowy and unsubstantial ghosts. The Hebrew
word Rephaim, which is used frequently to describe the manes
of the dead, denotes, they tell us, mere umbrce or shadows, and
that etymologically it signifies relaxed and weak. Isaiah,
bursting forth in his heart-stirring lyric addressed to the
Babylonian monarch, exclaims, “ Hell [that is, Sheol, the land
of spirits] from beneath is moved to meet thee at thy coming;
it stirreth up the dead (Rephaim') for thee. .... Art thou
also become weak as we ? ” Alger, whose work on the “ Future
Life ” cannot be too highly spoken of, and who seems himself
to cling to the idea that the spirit-world as recognised by the
ancient Hebrews was exceedingly shadowy and unsubstantial,
remarks: “These ghosts are described as being nearly as
destitute of sensation as they are of strength. They are
called ‘ the inhabitants of the land of stillness.’ They exist in
an inactive, partially torpid, state, with a dreamy consciousness
of past and present, neither suffering nor enjoying and seldom
moving. Herder says of the Hebrews: ‘ The sad and
mournful images of their ghostly realm disturbed them,
and were too much for their self-possession.’ Respecting these
images he adds: ‘ Their voluntary force and energy were
destroyed. They were feeble as a shade, without distinction
of members, as a nerveless breath. They wandered and flitted
in the dark nether world.’ This wandering and flitting, how¬
ever, is rather the spirit of Herder’s poetry than of that of the
Hebrews; for the whole tenor and drift of the representations
in the Old Testament show that the state of disembodied
souls is deep quietude. Freed from bondage, pain, toil, and
care, they repose in silence. The ghost summoned from be¬
neath by the witch of Endor said: 1 Why hast thou dis¬
quieted me to bring me up?’ It was, indeed, in a dismal
abode that they took their long quiet; but then it was in a
place ‘ where the wicked ceased from troubling and the weary
were at rest.’” Solomon declares and gives it as a reason for
energy in this life, that “ there is no work, nor device, nor
knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave.” Job in bitter despair
asks, “ Why died I not from the womb? . . . For now
should I have lain still and been quiet; I should have slept,
then had I been at rest.” And in Isaiah we meet with such
language as this: “ Thy speech shall be low out of the dust,
and thy voice shall be as of one that hath a familiar spirit, out
of the ground, and thy speech shall whisper out of the dust.”
These passages and others of a similar kind have been fre¬
quently quoted to prove that the world of spirits as believed in
by the ancient Hebrews was a region of darkness, silence,
gloom, and total inactivity, corresponding, in the sense
of the repose, but not in that of the gloom, with the
Buddhist Nirvana. The last passage evidently refers in
some manner to the calling up of the spirits of the dead by
the art of necromancy, it having been imagined at that
time that spirits so summoned could only speak in a whisper,
a circumstance which has received a singular illustration in
modern times. Whether the shadowy and unsubstantial region
thus imagined constitutes in reality the spiritual world of the
Old Testament we shall see as we proq^gd. Certain it is that an
existence in a land where no light shines, no harmonious
sounds break through, and no events occur to relieve the ever¬
lasting monotony and gloom, would be little worth the having,
and would be no place to look forward to, with joyful hope
and anxious expectation, as a crowning reward for one’s
labours when “ life’s fitful fever ” is over, and the cares and
turmoils of this mortal state brought to a close.
“It is a land of Shadows; yaa the land
Itself is but a shadow, and the rase
That dwell therein are voices, forms of forms,
And echoes of themselves."
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., has commenced the
publication of another weekly scientific newspaper, entitled
The Electrical News. It is of excellent quality, and, unlike
most weekly journals, is bound in a coloured wrapper.
34
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 16, 1875,
(Kurreaponuence.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALIST MEETINGS IN EAST LONDON.
Sir,—Will you kindly publish the following donations re¬
ceived by me for Sunday services and seances, with the thanks
of the receiver ?
Total quarterly contributions in box, £3 5s. lid.; Mr. A.
Maltby, 10s.; Mr. West, 10s. 6d.; Mr. J. Young, 10s; A
Strange Friend, £2. B. Cogman.
15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End-road, London.
LECTURES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
Sib,—I wish you to kindly make known in the next issue of
The Spiritualist that £1 Is. has been received by me in aid of
Dr. Sexton’s Lectures at the Cavendish Booms, from Mr.
Adshead, of Belper. J. Began.
59, Finborough-road, South. Kensington,
Uth July, 1875.
A CURIOUS COINCIDENCE OP VISION.
Sir,—Dr. Charnock, the President of the Anthropological
Society of London, is staying with me at my hotel at Bou¬
logne, and the other morning I watched him from my windowj
as I thought, approaching the hotel, returning from his usual
ramble. I took in his whole figure, attitude, walk, for some
time, and his peculiar dress, as I often do as an artist, making
a picture of the object, as it were, in my mind’s eye. I could
have sworn that it was Dr. Charnock had I been called upon
to do so. Well, I turned my head away for an instant, and
on looking again my friend was gone, and there was nowhere
for him to have gone to excepting he had slipped into the other
hotel which he was passing. When I saw Dr. Charnock at
lunch, I said to him, “Well, did you have a good walk?”
“ No,” he said, “ I have not been out this morning ; I have
not been well, and have been lying down on the bed.” His
room is the next to mine. I told him what I had seen.
“ Well,” he replied, “ that is a curious coincidence, for I was
sure that I saw you, from my window, leave the hotel and
cross the road, just in your usual way, with your hands in
your pockets ; and when you were lost in the distance, to my
astonishment you came out of the hotel in reality just as I
had seen you; therefore the first impression, though so very
clear, must have been a vision, for I could not be mistaken in
the resemblance.”
Similar visions have often occurred to me, but the causes
differ. I once, in Begent-street, was sure that I saw my old
friend Sir Edwin Landseer approaching me, but, on coming
up with the person, found that he had not the slightest
resemblance to my friend; but almost immediately after I did
meet him, and it seemed as though I had embodied on another
person some impression I had received from my approaching
friend. But on another occasion, going by the railway to the
Crystal Palace, I distinctly, and for some minutes, saw the
Houses of Parliament, with the towers, in the distance, but
in the opposite direction from where they were ; and though
aware of the delusion, the impression or vision remained.
It seems, then, that in the waking state we may sometimes
have visions similar to those we have in the dream; and
these may help us to the nature and reason of such visions,
which have all the distinctness of realities. In questioning
such matters we must remember that all our perceptions are
visionary and illusory. For instance, the perception of a tree
is from an influence from the tree through the senses to the
brain, and the image is projected in the mind to have the
effect as though it did actually see the tree itself and in the
place it may be. But the illusion is of practical value,
because it enables me to walk up to the object, just as though
I had actually seen it; and in the same way the illusions of
all the senses have their practical value. If the pain did not
seem to be in the burnt finger we might be burnt to death
without knowing it; Jon considering which fact Bishop Berkeley
declared that the perceptions were the distant things them¬
selves, and that there were no other things, and hence denied
the objective world of matter. But my answer is, that if the
so-called perceptions are the distant things themselves, they
cannot also be perceptions of the percipient. The reply to
which from my friend, Dr. Oollyns Simon, the great defender
of Berkeley is this:—“ The phenomenon or group of sensible
qualities which I call a rock, is no more my perceiving it than
Bossini’s music is my hearing it, or than Homer’s Iliad is my
thinking of it—my perception of it; yet poems and music are
essentially pure perceptions.” But Dr. Charnock agrees with
me, that this is no reply at all, but pure contradiction. Hume
said that Berkeley’s system did not admit of a reply, but pro¬
duced no conviction. I say, on the contrary, that my objec¬
tion admits of no reply, and does produce conviction, particu¬
larly when taken together with other objections which I need
not now refer to. Henry G. Atkinson.
Hotel de la G-are, Boulogne.
THE LETMARIE- FIRMAN-BUGUET TRIAL.
Sib,—The prevailing opinion of most people was that the
cardboard dolls had been got up by Buguet between notice
of his probable arrest and the actual fact.
In using the terms “ distinctly understood” I might better
have said “ distinctly believed.” At least a large part had
been added to a portion, for no comparison was made
between effigies and the evidence of portraits produced. The
dolls shown were perfectly new; care had not been taken to
besmear them in a manner to indicate manipulation. The
box containing them was brand new. My principal object
was to submit that Buguet had been suborned to prove a case
against Leymarie and Firman, in order to save himself, or in
reward for a general denunciation.
I repeat that what I have stated was the general opinion of
those present; that is, that the dolls for the most part were
made for the trial.
Sufficient stress has* not been laid upon the non-production
of the dress alleged to have been captured from Firman. A
very easy thing to produce the dolls in Buguet’s case, but not
so for Firman.
Firman appeals for a little help, and offers to submit him¬
self to any reasonable test: he is a candidate for experiments
which I am perfectly certain will prove startling.
S. Ohinnert.
4, Elsham-road, Kensington, 8th July, 1875.
Sir,—The Paris scandal has, as might have been expected,
given a welcome relief to a certain class of sceptics who began
to feel uneasy at the increasing number of witnesses in favour
of Spiritualism in respectable scientific quarters. Like the
press, ignoring reports about circles, where no worldly purpose
but truth only, coupled with the noble intention to crush out
dangerous illusions, animated the investigators, they greedily
set their teeth at hunted creatures, and wild barking will fill
the air for some time to come.
To every honest truth-seeker such a sweeping of the ground
to clear away impurity must be welcome, even in spite of
temporary disastrous results, even if somo timid Spj ritualists
should be frightened out of their wits in discerning some wretched
mortals among the hosts of ghosts. We can afford, in the sight of
the vast amount of knowledge gained on legitimate ground, to
cut off that part where the beastly claws of money-grubbing
cunning have sullied our success. Spiritualists are on some
points in the market of life more easily deceived than ma¬
terialists who are in constant sight and practice of worldly
things. A pure Spiritualist thinks it absolutely impossible
that any mortal could attempt to link dishonest purposes with
such a name. It would therefore seem to be in the natural
fitness of things if further disclosures inform us that Buguet
never from the outset believed in the phenomena, and planned
to fill his purse and gain the applause of the sneering sceptical
world. Let him enjoy the fruits of his ambition. How far
Leymarie and Firman have been drawn with their own clear
knowledge of wrong into this mire must be seen by the de¬
tailed accounts, but as a sad proof of general confusion in the
higher principles of morals, violating the simplest rules of
logic, I may mention an argument I heard the other day, that
all Spiritualism was a swindle, because Buguet confessed his
imposture. The man who is led to prison as a cheat and liar,
engages the confidence I am afraid of a great majority.
C. Beimers.
Manchester.   ■
REAL AND SHAM SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHS.
Sir,—Let me suggest, as a very needful precaution, that
henceforth those who pay for spirit-portraits shall -stipulate
for possession by themsfelves of the negative, the glass having
been, previous to use, marked by the photographer with some
trade mark.
Several times I have wished to purchase negatives when the
prints, in my possession, have indicated fraud; but the answer
July 16, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
has been, “ The spirits will not let the negative go,” or, “ The
spirits have smashed the negative,” or, “ The spirits have
taken away the negative, and it cannot be found.” Comment
on such answers is not required. Hopeful.
Me. J. J. Moese is at present in New York.
Me. William s’ Seances.—Mr. C. E. Williams, the
well-known professional medium, will leave London next
Wednesday for Holland, to take a few weeks’ rest. During
the last six months he has been almost incessantly engaged,
consequently has scarcely had a single free evening during
the whole of that time. This shows that good mediumship is
appreciated in London, though weak mediumship fares badly,
Mr. Williams has declined several lucrative offers to give
seances in the provinces and on the Continent.
Me. Tyeeman’s Woek in Austealia.—The Harbinger
of Light (Melbourne) received by last Monday’s mail says:
“ The accounts received of Mr. Tyerman’s doings at Sydney
are very encouraging, and indicate a lively interest in Spirit¬
ualism and free thought there. Mr. Tyerman commenced the
campaign at the new Temperance Hall the first Sunday after
his arrival in Sydney, since which time he has been lecturing
every Sunday evening at the Victoria Theatre, which the pro¬
prietor, Mr. John Bennett, liberally placed at his disposal.
Although a charge of 6d. and Is. was made on the first two
nights, there were large attendances ; but it was subsequently
deemed advisable to make the admission free and depend
upon the collection, since which the theatre has been crbwded.
The encouragement Mr. Tyerman has received has induced
him (at least for a time) to abandon his intention of proceed¬
ing to America. Although so busily engaged in Sydney, Mr.
Tyerman has already received calls to lecture in other towns
in New South Wales ; and with such a wide field of usefulness
opening out before him, it would be folly for him to leave the
country. Of course there is considerable consternation in the
orthodox camp, but the tactics adopted on this occasion are
somewhat different to the last. The leading papers are in the
hands or under the influence of the clergy, and, mindful of
the adage, ‘ The agitation of thought is the beginning of
wisdom,’ keep silent, lest their flocks, feeling the agitation,
should get too wise in matters pertaining to religion. The
Sydney Evening Hews is more liberal in its tendency, and
gives fair reports of Mr. Tyerman’s lectures.”
Beaed on Spieitualtsm.—Recently we published some
vulgar abuse of Spiritualism by Professor Clifford, but the
following by Dr. George M. Beard, of New York, is a more
refined kind of Billingsgate. Speaking of Inquiry into
Spiritualism to the Long Island Historical Society, he said:
” Let your courage be absolute. If any man wants to know
what it is to be thoroughly snubbed, let him make some scien¬
tific research, and then bring the results of this research to
the attention of those [who are to be most benefited by it.
While this is true enough in the world of science, it is pre¬
eminently true in that realm where science never enters, that
is in all our experience with the ignorant mass of mankind. No
man who is afraid of abuse ought ever to attempt to impress
unpopular truth on unwilling hearts. Any attempt to expose,
by scientific methods, the follies and crimes of clairvoyance,
mind-reading, or Spiritualism, at once rouses all the demon
of humanity everywhere. The vast body of underdone young
men who know just enough to stumble into every novelty that
arises—a class that specially abounds in this land of the
free and home of the brave; sentimental girls that weep
over dime novels and make the New York Ledger
their Bible ; half-idead iconoclasts that would make the world
in their own image; dried-up matrons in whose hearts a silly
superstition matches every wrinkle in their faces ; travelling
lecturers on phrenology and biology, whose very existence is a
monument of Divine mercy; simple-souled fossils who have
never matured, whose second childhood is but a continuation
of their first; hysterical somnambulists whose brains are on
fire with foolish fancies; Bohemians of every race and grade;
waifs of civilisation, cast up around the shores of the modern
newspapers; half-fledged scientists in various departments,
who perchance know something about something, and therefore
are supposed to know everything about everything; all this
impedimenta in the army of civilisation, strong in numbers,
strong in influence, strong in everything except intelligence
and virtue, and ever fighting among themselves over trifles as
light as their own intellects, unite in firm phalanx to resist the
march of all who would wrest from them one inch of the ter¬
ritory of ignorance which is common to them all.”
MRS. TAPPAN IN EDINBURGH.
The Edinburgh Gourant of last Tuesday says:—
Last night Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, described as “ the cele¬
brated inspirational trance speaker,” gave the first of three
lectures in the New Waverley Hall. The Rev. Dr. Macdonald
occupied the chair, and in introducing Mrs. Tappan said that,
while not committing himself to all that was said in favour of
Spiritualism, it gave him great pleasure to preside at a
meeting to be addressed by one who had attained a high
position as an eloquent expounder of its doctrines and as an
authoress. After the audience had joined in the singing of
the Hundredth Psalm, Mrs. Tappan engaged in an ‘‘ invoca¬
tion.” She then delivered an address, in the course of which
she gave an exposition of what is known as Spiritualism,
remarking that its facts were only twenty-seven years of age,
while its philosophy had existed from all time. The mani¬
festations had shown themselves in various forms, and she
affirmed that there were thirty millions living who had so
satisfied themselves on the subject that its existence could be
no more denied than the sunshine. She also argued that it
had come at the time that it was necessary. What with Strauss
in Germany unlocking and battering down the very citadels
of worship; with R6nan in France usurping the place of
ecclesiastical authority with words that sound like incen¬
diarism ; with even Colenso and others in England putting
different constructions on words that had long been held as
of one meaning; and with the prevailing powers of science—
Tyndall, Spencer, Huxley—there was need that some word
be spoken, not only in the form of speech, but, if need be,
in the form of the handwriting on the wall, wherein, with the
finger of fire, the throne of Materialism should be threatened,
and the judgment of external reason be placed in its proper
balance.
At the close of the address, which was delivered with re¬
markable eloquence, Mrs. Tappan invited questions.
One of the audience asked what new truth Spiritualism had
given that was not in the Scriptures, and if she thought the
statement of our Lord was not sufficient when He represented
Abraham as saying that if they would not believe Moses and
the prophets they would not believe though one rose from the
dead.
Mrs. Tappan stated that she had not said that Spiritualism
revealed any new truth. It revealed old truths in a new way
to those men who did not accept the truths of the New Testa¬
ment.
The questioner said he had read much about Spiritualism,
but had failed to find a new thought more than he found in
the Scriptures about the world to come.
Mrs. Tappan replied that he was a fortunate man, and be¬
longed to that class to whom Spiritualism had no message.
But if there were those so blind as could not read, let them
have raised letters whereby they might do so, and such raised
letters were presented in the manifestations of Spiritualism.
The Chairman, in moving a vote of thanks to the ” speaker,”
stated that he was sure, from what they had heard, that if
Mrs. Tappan was not influenced by a spirit, she was at least a
profound genius.
Next Sunday Dr. Sexton, editor of the Spiritual Maga¬
zine, will deliver two discourses on Spiritualism at Sowerby
Bridge, Yorkshire.
Next "Week’s Soieee.—In consequence of its being the
height of the summer season, the soirees in connection with
the National Association of Spiritualists, 88, Great Russell-
street, are now held at intervals of six instead of four weeks
apart, many members and friends having left town or being
on the point of leaving ; consequently it was anticipated that
there would be a somewhat thin attendance at the soiree next
Wednesday, but from all that can be gathered it would seem
that although not a few will be absent, there will he a fair
attendance of new comers. Several mediums from the East-
end of London are expected, as well as some American friends
and Spiritualists from foreign countries ; so that altogether it
is probable that the interest of these highly successful meet¬
ings will be well kept up, and that a pleasant evening will be
spent by all who attend. As usual, there is no pre-arranged
business, but if any news should arrive about the persecution
of Spiritualists in Paris it will be made known, and perhaps
some of the friends present from distant countries may be
invited to say a few words in the course of the evening. Still,
these meetings were originated for social converse, and not
for public speaking.
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A Lecture next Sunday.—Next Sunday the Key. F.
E. Young, of Swindon, will give a discourse in connection with
Spiritualism at the Cavendish Booms, Mortimer-street, Re-
gent-st. Subject, “ The Old and the New.” Admission free.
At the meeting of the Council of the National Association
of Spiritualists, held last Tuesday, it was resolved to open a
subscription list, quite independently of the Association, for
the benefit of Mr. Firman while unjustly imprisoned in Paris,
Miss Kislingbury, of 38, Great Bussell-street, being secretary
to the fund. A full report of the Council meeting will be pub¬
lished next week.
Spirit Identity.—A writer who does not wish his name
and address to be published has sent a circular to several
journals, from which circular we make the following extracts :
“ I have had the privilege of sitting several times with those
finely-endowed mediums Miss Keeves and Miss Eecord, of 30,
An till-street, Grove-road, Bow. I had never met these ladies
before; they did not know of my existence ; although their
circle was very select, and I a perfect stranger, yet through
their courtesy admission was granted me to their seance.
About six years back my wife died. -Immediately upon the
commencement of the seance the medium described the person
of my wife exactly as she appeared at the commencement of
her last illness. Near the spirit of my wife was described the
spirit of a lady friend of hers who has passed from her earth-
life since my wife; the name of this spirit friend was written
in bright letters on the table, much to my astonishment.
Several of my deceased friends and relatives controlled the
medium for a time in succession, one more prominent being
the Baptist minister who preached for some years in the vil¬
lage, and who, not content with acoordihg me a hearty greeting
through the medium, was also pleased to use the medium’s
powers to write me a long letter congratulating me upon my
investigation of Spiritualism. The strangest part of this was
that his name was signed in full at bottom, though I had never
thought of him for months ; and as to the mediums, they were,
as I said before, perfect strangers to myself, much more to my
deceased friend. But, to return to the principal feature of the
seance, which consisted in the truthful impersonation by Miss
Keeves, while under control, of some of the various attitudes
and positions of body of my wife during her last illness, some
of which had passed from my memory, but upon seeing them
exhibited by the medium were vividly brought to my remem¬
brance, ^.nd convinced me there was something in Spiritualism
that deserved the closest investigation of the seeker after truth.
It would take up too much of your valuable space to specify many
of the impersonations, but you will allow me to mention one or
two by way of illustration. During the latter part of the time
my wife was able to remain downstairs, her habit was to have
the sofa drawn from the side of the room to the side of the
table before the fire. While able to sit up she would take her
seat in centre of the sofa, fold her arms on the table, lay
her head on her arms, and would thus remain by the hour
together. In answer to any inquiries put to her, she would
reply by shaking her head in different directions. Strange to
say, during the control of the medium she left her own seat,
went over to the sofa which was on the other side of the table,
and impersonated the above to the minutest detail. I would
say my acquaintance with Spiritualism at this time was of
such a limited character I did not know that impersonation
was a phenomenal feature of the science; the extent of
Spiritualism at that time to my mind was the largest amount
of table rapping and jumping that could be procured at a
seance. It was a habit of my wife, when standing looking out of
the window across the village green, to put each hand on each
side. This position was also very faithfully impersonated by
the medium; a number of impersonations of this time con¬
vinced me of the presence and identity of my wife. Miss
Becord, being clairvoyant,, described a gold ring with three
white stones, and on the inpide were engraved three initial
letters. The spirit having control at that time was my
father, who requested to know if the ring was in the family
still, and if I had ever worn it, with a further request that it
might be retained in the family. The ring was so peculiar
and so correctly described that there could be no doubt of the
remarkable test given. I will not further intrude upon your
space, or I might give you numerous details of this kind by
means of vhich I identified several spirits whom I had known
in earth-life. It gives me great pleasure to be able to bear my
conscientious testimony to the invaluable mediumship of these
excellent and gifted ladies, who in a quiet and unobtrusive
manner are continually in this way bringing home the truth
to the hearts of great numbers, who could not be reached in
the ordinary manner. I enclose my name and address.”
July 16, 1875.
Mr. Luther Colby, editor of the Banner of Liqht,
has accepted honorary membership of the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
Mr. Cornelius Yarley.—Last autumn we had to record
the death, at the advanced age of ninety-two, of Mr. Cornelius
Yarley, the last survivor of the founders of the Water Colour
Society, brother to the well-known artist John Yarley, and
father of Mr. Cromwell Varley, who has done so much to
advance the cause of Spiritualism in England. Yesterday a
sale took place of the whole of the valuable collection of the
works of Mr. Cornelius Varley, at the auction rooms of Messrs.
Christie, Manson, and Woods. The collection comprised a
large number of finished drawings and sketches, views in
England and Wales, and a few pictures. The bulk of these
sketches were made with the aid of the graphic telescope—an
invention of his own—which secured absolutely perfect
perspective. Mr. Cornelius Varley was a “ character ” in his
way, well known to Faraday and all the older frequenters of
the learned societies of London.
The Public Funds op Spiritualists.—In the course of
a letter to the National Association of Spiritualists, which
will be published next week, Mr. W. H. Harrison said: “ My
work in Spiritualism has been especially arduous, in conse¬
quence of the unequal distribution of the public funds in aid
of spiritual literature. During the last six years £500 a year
has been given, mostly by my personal friends, to one branch
of our spiritual literature, making a total of £3,000; whilst to
that section with which I am connected rather less than £600
has been contributed in the same time, in a semi-public way.
This inequality arises from the fact that from the first I have
had conscientious objections to the introduction of the sub¬
scription systemin aid of private individuals into Spiritualism.
I think it would have been better for the movement had it left
readers to pay a halfpenny or a penny more each for their
journals, rather than that a very few friends should have been
burdened with the enormous expense of £3,600 during the last
six years. Still, as a balance of public capital amounting to
£2,400 has been spent during the past six years for the benefit
of the movement, but unintentionally in such a way as to
injure me^severely by underselling, I have been left to pay out
in money all the heavy losses thereby inflicted.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
M.A.B.—Your letter about Rdigio-Philosophical journal received;
please send your address.
B.H., Pams.—Your note received too late for the present
number of The Spiritualist.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
OhAP. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity pf the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world.
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL,
69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER,
who has kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
July 16, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM:, PSYCHOLOG r, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
. ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street),
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, -by the TTon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communidn. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.R.8. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of.the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Gd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving general
information about English professional and non-professional mediums, also
about the periodical 6,nd other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM 1? Vol. IL, by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. '8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out Of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee. D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised.and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Science* and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the. Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences, is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus-saw the Mastodon and
bther.extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The authdr
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography; and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated .with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no douht as to the
integrity of the auth&r, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. '
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says ^“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not he taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
5s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in. the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
a from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. Gd.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth. Best edition. Gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition, 7s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through'the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautiful
poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 14s.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
THE CELESTIAL TELEGRAPH, OR SECRETS OF THE
LIFE TO COME Proved by many years experiments by means of eight
ecstatic somnambulists. Cahagnet, 10s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. .By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music,
and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationallj’’through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR- GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. Gd.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An. inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten.' 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd. .   
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s rans-
lation.) 7s. 6d. *
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s., 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM
7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN-SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15s. • . '
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P.
Barkas
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
PSYCHOPATHY; OR, THE TRUE HEALING ART, by
Joseph Ashman, is.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By O. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hguh
Faruar, 17W. 2*. 64 .. _
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
», July 16, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOL0GY.—Continued.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
. philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 3s. 6d.
THE COMING MAN, By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “ Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations .......
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Hannonia
The Teacher. i, II- „ ...
The Seer. „ III, „
The Reformer. „ IV „
The Thinker. „ V „ . . ,
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis ....
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . .
Arahula, or Divine Guest .......
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology ....
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . . , ,
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .....
Death and the After-Life .......
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .
Harbinger of Health , . . .
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age.....
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memorander.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ......
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .... ,
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers ....
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse .....
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained ....
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings ....
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , . . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . ' . . ... j .
Morning Lectures , . . . . . I .
S. d.
16 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 ,6
7 6
4 0
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
4 0
4 0
7 6
4 0
7 6
3 0
4 0
8 0
6 6
7 6
7 6
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . .. .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper ,. . . . .
Keys of the Creeds . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism ......
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) ......
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ......
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ......
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ......
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 A.n. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trin, Coll., Cam. ' .
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts .....
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. .
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A.
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . .
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
■ Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion,byItobert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . ,
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the tTnited States of America at Constantinople
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . , . .
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . .
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools . _ . . . . . .
s. d.
2 6
6 0
14 0
6 0
18 0
16 0
16 0
7 6
10 6
16 0
10 6
10 6
6 0
2 0
12 0
3 6
18 0
10 6
1 0
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MED1UMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
r ORTHODOX, by) J. B. Angell. Judge!Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.,r 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS [OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Calby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conant. —
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each. .      _. •'
THE LIVERPOOL > PSYCHOLOGICAL SOC&TY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.,
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President,—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool..
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1876.
Experiences op hafed, prince of Persia:
Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The Subscriber, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last five
years, so soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted by
the Spiritual community.'
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 550 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contain,
besides the Experiences of Hafed, about 500 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the greatest interest; Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory informa •
tion, an account of the Mediumship of Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interesting
communications from Ruisdal and Steen, the old Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings in .Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English—and a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediumship.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fac¬
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe¬
cially appointed for their production. (For specimens of these see Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) Various facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also be given in the body of the work and in the copious
appendix.
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial stylo,
will be sent to subscribers free for 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive 7 copies for the price of 6.
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without delay to Mrs. Everitf, Lillian-villa, Hen¬
don, N.W.; or to Mr. T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
THE SOUL OF THINGS;
OR, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition.
By William and Elizabeth M. f. Denton.
“ We have here a marvellous book. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet it makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of anything
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these revelations, it would be
impossible to estimate the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geology as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“ In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar and intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state.”—Norfolk County Journal.
“ There is much extraordinary matter in these pages. It is a volume em¬
phatically deserving of the reader’s choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
“ Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of Action. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
fiction, written in the vivid style which is a part of Mr. Denton's remark¬
able power.”—American Spiritualist.
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-st., London, W.O,
WORKS BY THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
THE GREAT REPUBLIC: a Poem of the Sun. 6s.
THE BREATH OF GOD WITH MAN. Is. 6d.
ARCANA OF CHRISTIANITY; The Apocalypse. Vol. I. 6s. 6d.
THE MILLENNIAL AGE. 2s. 6d.
• LONDON SERIES OF SERMONS. Is.
Wholesale and Retail by John Thomson, 39, John-stfeet, Glasgow.
Sold also by Mrs. Connor, 15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.O.
