No. 16.—Vol. I. LONDON : THURSDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1870. ’OTjBlfrlriiflfiWl
THE SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
MESMERISM.
.On Sunday evening, November 1st, after the conclu¬
sion of the usual preparatory service, at the Cavendish-
rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, Mr. J. J.
Morse, medium, went into the trance-state, and through
his organism, his chief Spirit-guide gave an address
about Mesmeric Phenomena. Mr. Fabyan Daw presided,
and the hall was full.
The Spirit, in the course of his address, said that the
mesmerised person passes through many stages while
tinder the influence of the operator. After describing
the sleeping and healing stages, he said that the power
possessed by some clairvoyants of tracing diseases, and
intuitively exhibiting a knowledge of the nature of the
disease and its remedy, is the first stage of the liberation
of the spiritual faculties. When a clairvoyant describes
distant places, the freed spirit of the clairvoyant is
usually standing by his own insensible body, and by
his will-liower forcing his ideas through the material
body, which ideas the mouth speaks. This is often a
work of some difficulty, and the communications made
are not so reliable as those of “ conscious clairvoyance.”
Conscious clairvoyants have the power of remembering
what they have seen after they return to their normal
state, and then of telling what they have witnessed. In
trance-mediumship the controlling spirit stands near
the insensible body of the medium, and forces ideas
through the telegraphic instrument thus furnished;
while this is being done, sometimes the medium is
away, and sometimes he is helping the communicating
spirit.
THE PRODUCTION OE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
On Sunday, November 8th, the communications
through Mr. Morse were on the subject of the
method of producing Spiritual manifestations. The
controlling Spirit said that he desired to clear
away the mystery hanging over the method of the
production of Spiritual manifestations, for he maintained
Spiritualism to be an exact science, and saw no reason
why the principles governing some of the phenomena
should not in time be reduced to mathematical formulae.
The human body is a machine for the expression of
thought, and is governed by the man within, who is a
“ monachal existence.” This monadial existence gives
birth to ideas, which travel on a long journey before
they come out at the mouth.. As the outer world can-
pot come into connection with the pure idea, which is
spiritual, and not what is called “ natural,” that idea is
first clothed in thought, and after traversing the
mechanism of the body, produces speech. In spiritual
consciousness it is found that thought is dependent upon
the body for expression.
There is a material body and a spiritual body, united
by what, for want of a better term, he would call
“ vital electricity,” which is not ordinary electricity,
but is analogous thereto. The monadial existence is
united to the spiritual body by what he would call
“ vital magnetism,” which is analogous to terrestrial
magnetism, and of a more refined nature than vital
electricity. Thus link over link does the thought have
to travel to the outer body.
Material substances are composed of atoms, endowed
with life due to the action of the infinite spirit within
the atom, and this interior life causes it to move. All
things live, and he knew not of inertia. Each atom
surrounds itself with a sphere or aura, which science
has not yet been able to detect, and these atoms unite
to form trees, life, and the things we see; the atoms
unite by their several spheres, and the mass, or thing
seen, has then a general aura or atmosphere of its own,
which may be called its “ electric aura.”
Now, in causing tables to move, there must be union
between the mover and the thing moved. The spirit
body is so fine and material, that it cannot • touch
matter, or come into contact therewith, so the spirit
has to find something which will stick to the table, so
that a grip may be obtained, and this “ something ” is
emitted by the human body. The electrical aura
which surrounds the body is of a higher nature than
that which surrounds the table, and the much-abused
person known as a physical medium, is one whose
body is particularly rich in the required aura. The
controlling intelligence infuses a feeling of love into
the mind of the medium, whereby a spiritual relation¬
ship is established between them; the influence thus
infused gradually passes out into the material sphere
around the medium ; the spirit has then a power over
the external electric sphere, and can, if necessary,
actually lay hold of the table.
The influences and persons surrounding the medium
are often serious impediments to the operations just
mentioned, and then the spirit can sometimes bring his
influence to bear on the external sphere of the medium,
and this spirit who cannot effect complete assimilation
is usually of an earthy, material nature. His power
over the table is also not direct; he is in a position
analogous to that of a man who tries to tilt a chair
about at the end of a lever ; the accuracy with which
he performs his work depends upon his skill in using
the lever, and he usually produces confusion and dis¬
comfort. The using of this external atmosphere causes
many of the mistakes in spelling out names and mes¬
sages by means of articles of furniture, and much
depends upon the skill of the communicating spirit.
It is very necessary that mediums should live in
accordance with the laws of nature, and be in a har¬
monious state within and without, in order to get
manifestations of a high class.
Raps are produced by a positive electricity, controlled
by the spirit, which acts upon a negative atmosphere
surrounding the article which acts as a sounding-board.
Among other methods of communication are the
controlling of the vocal organs of the medium, the con¬
trolling of his hand to write, or the controlling of his
body as a whole without making him unconscious at
all. To control the arm of a medium, the spirit must
have more knowledge than one who can only move
furniture, because he has to deal with matter in a
higher condition, and he has to bring himself into
harmony with the external conditions of the organisa¬
tion; when completely master of this, he cuts off the
supply of positive vital force to the arm, which is then
under his control. Then it is possible to write with
great force and clearness. To control the speaking
organs, greater knowledge still is necessary.
In your atmosphere particles of life are ever floating;
every living thing gives forth emanations in streams;
an aura constantly rises from the rustling leaves of the
forest oak, as well as from the living man. The emana¬
tions which constitute the human plane have the
peculiarities of the organisation which throws them off;
spirits can separate the components ,of these auroral
emanations, trace them to the person who gave them
out, and at the same time tell his character. Thus
there is a sea of life all around us, and the particles
thrown off from human beings unfold themself afresh
in the Spiritual spheres, in a manner unknown to the
inhabitants of earth. When a spirit desires to make
you a flower, he first has to bring himself into harmony
with the medium, and his success in doing so is in pro¬
portion to his knowledge. He learns the constituents
of the rose, and searches for them first in the atmo¬
sphere around himself, and then in the atmosphere
surrounding the medium. He unites and controls them
by the positive action of his wiH. Now the rose being
formed in the if electrical ” sphere of the medium is,
seen, but is evanescent, so, as the power is withdrawn, it
melts into thin air.
No particles of matter actually touch each other, but
they are surrounded by a sphere. The walls of this
building are composed of little dark atoms, held together
by affinity; When we bring solid objects through walls,
we employ superior chemical forces to those which hold
the atoms together, and can thus make a passage. The
“ electrical ” sphere around the article often interferes
with the attempts to get it through the wall. That
spirits do sometimes carry substances through walls we
know, for we have seen it done.
The controlling of a speaking medium is more of a
soul union. Now it is no easy matter to infuse your
thoughts into other persons’ heads, especially when
those heads are thick; we do not mean when the skulls
are thick, but when there is a want of harmony between
the internal and external organs, so that the medium
is inharmoniously related to the natural world. A
thought is an idea in process of externalisation; to
make a medium speak for us, we act upon his thought-
sphere, and upon his spiritual body, which is the servant
of the mind. Our thoughts (not our ideas) assimilate
with his thoughts, and are by him thrown' out and given i
shape and form. To read 'thoughts, we have to bring
ourselves into harmony with a man interiorly. Some¬
times we can assimilate pure ideas, and then the medium
has impressions and foreknowledge.
Direct spirit-writing, so far as we can make you
understand it, is a species of electrical transferring, and
the materials used are taken into the electrical sphere
of the medium. Direct spirit painting is done in the
same way, and some phenomena of this kind will shortly
attract much attention. There are other new manifes¬
tations coming, yet, were I to tell you about them
to-night, but few of you would receive my statements.
Bodies are the servants of those who use them. This
medium, my present subject, is a sympathetic soul
capable of imbibing our ideas; before the communica¬
tions begin he feels a sense of coming control, whilst
thoughts strange and startling flash through his mind.
We gradually come into harmony with his monadial
existence, and being more positive than himself, we have
temporary control of his organism. Thus bridge by
bridge, and link by link, do we control the machinery,
till at last we can make our thoughts known to the
outer world; we do this by no mystical process, but by
working in strict conformity with the laws of nature.
While the subject is under our control, he is from us
receiving educational development, and he is now
receiving ideas infinitely above his own. His body is
now completely negative to us, and the union is com¬
plete between the natural and spiritual worlds. When
we cease to control him, as each wave of spiritual influx
recedes from his system, each atom in his body changes
its polarity again, and earthly consciousness returns to
him once more, but oblivion, blank and dark, rests over
what he has seen.
If the channel between the two worlds be narrow,
reason must in time provide a remedy; when our
mediums live in harmony with the laws of nature, they
can be more perfectly controlled. There is a still more
remote period of development, when mediums will be
controlled from a more internal portion of. their nature
than any of which I have spoken. Sometimes we can
utterly and completely reverse the polarity of the atoms
of the body of the medium; this sets the monadial
existence which previously governed the body free to
travel in the spirit world, and the body is practically
dead for the time being.
A REVIEW OE THE PROGRESS OE SPIRITUALISM.
On Sunday evening, December 2nd, Mrs. E. Har-
dinge occupied the platform at the Cavendish Rooms,
and gave a magnificent inspirational oration on the sub¬
ject of Spiritualism. In the course of her address she
said that in ancient times the conditions were more
favourable to the manifestation of this living principle
than they are now. All ancient dynasties were
theocratic; God was ever the King, spiritual force the
cause, and the people constantly thought and felt the
presence of spiritual beings. The aspirations of their
hearts, ever tending towards spiritual life, were answered
by inspiration. ALspiration is ever answered by inspira¬
tion. The outstretched arms of the human spirit are
ever filled by the form of the angel. This is the
meaning of invocation, this the true philosophy of
prayer. In the middle ages, when men were devoted
to physical science, and craved the substantial food of
material experiences, spiritual life waned, and men
satisfied themselves by paying certain officials to do
their thinking for them, until those who absorbed this
office at last thought it right to appropriate not only the
thinking part of their devotees, but the consciences,
the souls, and finally the purses. In the meantime,
why do these spirit people come to you in this most
material of all ages, when the Church so universally
usurps the right to think for you, to hold your con¬
science in its grasp, and to deal out passports for your
souls at so much a head ? Why is it that they come
in this age, when physical science is so ripe, and the
triumphs that it has acquired are so glorious ? The
spirits themselves, who own neither the authority of
priests nor the authenticity of one revelation alone, tell
you that life is continued hereafter from the point
where it closes here; that the germs of knowledge
sown in physical existence ultimate and blossom in
spirit, but that spiritual existences must comprehend
and embrace all knowledge; and if you have not
acquired it on earth, you must commence it there.
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1870.
Priestcraft, moreover, has stretched the cord a little too
tight. This is a utilitarian age, and suffering, starving,
labouring, dying people have at length begun to question
what is the use of ecclesiasticism, which in this in¬
quisitive, educational age has been brought to the bar of
justice and found wanting. Thus it is that the people
are ready for Spiritualism; that the masses, so many
of whom are dying for want of the Christian spirit, and
perishing because there is no merciful one to plead for
the common people, are ready for some new development
of religious truth, for some realisation of God who is a
Pather, for some actual demonstration that the angels
are not winged myths, but men and women with human
hearts and pity and sorrow for humanity, with some
realisation that there is another and a better world for
those to whom this world is but a' prison-house.
Mrs. Hardinge will occupy the platform at the
Cavendish-rooms next Sunday evening, also during
several successive Sundays, and the proceedings begin
at seven o’clock. ‘
The Earthward Pilgrimage, by Moncure D.
Conway. London: John Camden Hotten, 1870.—Mr.
Moncure D. Conway, the minister of Fox’s Finsbury
Chapel, and the successor to Theodore Parker in
America, is an inquiring intelligent man, always
searching after truth. His active penetrating mind
forces him into nearly all the haunts where advanced
knowledge is to be gained and diffused, therefore it is
no wonder that at one time he may be seen lecturing
before the lloyal Institution upon an almost forgotten
page in American history, at another giving Sunday
afternoon educational lectures at St. George’s Hall, at
another enlightening the Anthropological Society as to
the habits of a peculiar sect of religionists in Russia,
at another pushing his way to the seat of war, and at'
another speaking to a Spiritualistic meeting. This Mr.
Moncure D. Conway has on two occasions at least had
something to say publicly on the subject of Spiritualism,
and some of his opinions thereon are published in the
book now under notice.
• About a year ago, when Mr. J. M. Peebles arrivednn
England from America, Mr. Conway was present at the
public reception given to him at the Progressive Library,
and on that occasion he (Mr. Conway) said that he had
been recently travelling in Russia, and there, among
educated people, in the houses of count and baron,
wherever he mingled in intellectual society, he found
that one or more of the members of the family were
Spiritualists. Great numbers of people in America
were Spiritualists, and among his most intimate friends
were several who affirmed their knowledge of the truths
of Spiritualism. Such a mass of accumulated evidence,
he said, possesses very great weight, and although he
personally had not Seen enough of Spiritualism to be
convinced of its truth, he always, when opportunity
offered, said something to stem the utterances of those
who in conversation treated Spiritualism with ridicule
or contempt.
In his new book, The Earthward Pilgrimage, he
says:—•
“ It was not very far from where the Positivists met that
I found the ‘ Spiritualists ’ assembled. A speaker and medium
from America was engaging their attention; and their warmth,
their enthusiasm, their implicit faith that they were in com¬
munication with the World of Spirits, were sufficient, to
suggest the feeling that might have prevailed at some meeting
of the earliest disciples of Christ after the crucifixion, as they
listened for the sound of the trumpet and awaited the descent
of heavenly hosts. Amid these believers, their tongues touched
with pentecostal fire, their eyes radiant with invisible visions,
I sat among the blind unbelievers, and they prayed for our
conversion with a sincere sympathy. The tables they saw
floating to my eyes were still; their messages for me were
demonstrably false, their trance-revelations mere trash. Yet
when they appealed to the history of the world for the veracity
of their experiences, when they referred to the Witch of
Endor, to the angels that opened prison-doors for Paul and
Silas, to the dumb spirits, the possessed souls, the walking on
water, told of in the Bible, how could I but sympathise with
their indignation at the contempt heaped upon them by
Christians ? Here are multitudes of living witnesses to events
exactly similar to those which Christendom claims as its cre¬
dentials. Here are unimpeached men and women, living in
an age of scepticism and science, open to our tests and cross-
examinations: are we to give them less credence than we give
to people who lived in crude, unscientific, universally super¬
stitious ages, and who cannot be examined at all? What
explanation can be given of the aversion of believers in
Christian super naturalism from these contemporary miracles ?
Spiritism is only the appearance of their own mythology in a
form detached from their associations and interests; it is
legendary Christianity brought for the first time to a point
where it can receive their own impartial verdict; and we
know now what the human mind in this age really thinks
of it.
“ There is a story told on the Mississippi of a man of that
region who, being on a steamer for the first time, saw an in¬
dividual in the saloon, whom he addressed civilly, but received
no answer. Bepeating his question, he still obtained no
reply; whereupon he uttered very decided and not compli¬
mentary opinions upon the personal appearance of his silent
fellow-passenger. This individual, as it turned out, was un¬
accustomed to the brilliant mirrors of the American steamers,
and he went off in happy unconsciousness that his con¬
temptuous criticisms had been all upon himself.”
If, in a plain straightforward way, Mr. Conway bad
stated when and where the above seance was held, it
would be easier to bring to light the facts of the case in
detail, and to answer the few unfavourable assertions
made in the above extract. It is very likely that an
enquirer who carelessly attends one or two seances, may
receive some hazy inconclusive messages, of no value at
all, through half-developed trance mediums ; real know¬
ledge about Spiritualism can be obtained only by patient
hard work, and an examination of the whole range of
the phenomena. We therefore only draw special atten¬
tion to this one phrase, “ The tables they saw -floating,
to my eyes were still,” because it is so improbable that
this could have been so, that the statement will hardly
be received as accurate by any of the Spiritualistic
readers of these pages, unless Mr. Conway gives the
names of those present, the place, and the date, so that
all sides of the question may be heard, and not his
assertion alone. Attendance at a very few seances
quickly satisfies scientific enquirers that the only ques¬
tion as to the reality of the table movements is the pos¬
sibility that a mental change may take place in the
observers, so that they believe they see that which they
do not see. A little more experience proves this very
rational objection to be without real foundation ; furni¬
ture is often broken when the manifestations are violent,
and no mental change in the head of a man can break a
leg off a table.
Ho argument can be brought against the reality of
modern Spiritual manifestations, which does not tell
with tenfold force against the miracles narrated in the
Bible, and in the foregoing extract Mr. Conway puts
this argument with very great force.
How for a few words about the book itself. The whole
of it is clearly and forcibly written in a lively style, so
that the interest of the reader never flags. Hearly all
the great questions of the day are considered; there i s
much about labour, land, churches, the opening of
places of amusement and instruction on Sundays,
woman’s rights, and subjects of a kindred nature. John
Bunyan told how he made a pilgrimage to heaven;
Moncure D. Conway tells’ how he travelled from heaven
to earth, and why he had the bad taste to adopt this
course of action. In the narrative he says that at last
he grew tired of blowing a trumpet, and of informing
the Prince of the city of Otherworldliness how much
reason he had to be satisfied with himself. Hay more,
when he was expected to rejoice because many pilgrims
fell into a fiery pit, the more he reflected, the more did
it seem to be a questionable source of majesty to his
sovereign. He continues thus:—
“ As time waxed on, I perceived that our city was not only
growing in size, but altering its character. Going one day to
the city gate, I found that it had been removed to make way
for a much broader entrance, and I met a very miscellaneous
crowd coming in. Seeing that they were much fresher in
their looks than I had been after the same journey, I conversed
with some of them, and learned for the first time that the Celes¬
tial Railway had been opened, and that this had led to a tide
of immigration. The pilgrim could now travel in a first-class
carriage, and his pack be checked through. A pilgrim has
since made the world familiar with this result of the enter¬
prise of Mr. Smopth-it-away. His account, however, is, as
I have learned, not entirely accurate; for instance, the
Slough of Despond was not filled up by volumes of
French and German philosophy, but by enormous editions
of an English work showing the safest way of investing in
Both Worlds. Moreover, it is but just to say that the en¬
gineering feat by which the Hill Difficulty was tunnelled is
due to Professor Moonshine, whose works, showing that the
six days of creation mean six geological periods, and that
miracles are due to the accelerated workings of natural law,
also furnished the material of a patent' key, by which many
pilgrims are enabled to pass with ease through Doubting
Castle. The new pilgrim's informed me that most of them
had been for some time residing in Vanity Fair, but that, by
various measures of conciliation, that fascinating and fashion¬
able resort had become a suburb of the Celestial City, and
was incorporated with the domain of Otherworldiness.
Having read in Mr. Bunyan’s Guide-Book that our city was
of pure gold, they had some thoughts of settling in it. Many
of them having thus established themselves in our realm, it
began to show startling changes. There had been, for in¬
stance, no part of my old road along which I had passed more
shudderingly than the Plain Ease and Lucr Hill, where I
heard the groans of those who had fallen through its
treacherous sward into the silver-mines. What was my
astonishment now to see a beautiful park of just the same
kind, a hill the very image of Lucre Hill, made in the very
centre of our city ! This place became the fashionable prome¬
nade and place of resort. Ladies there displayed the cross as a
golden ornament, and all around it was a bazaar, where the
pearl of price was dealt in by tradesmen, who rejoiced in the
inscription over the park-gates—‘ Godliness is Gain.’
1 There gradually grew within me a deep misgiving, and I
began to dwell on memories of the so-called City of Destruc¬
tion, on which, as I was surprised to learn, fire had not yet
been rained down. One day I got hold of a journal printed in
that city. From it I learned that there were things going on
there which seemed, strangely inconsistent with the bad
character I had always heard given tto it. Men and women
there, so I read, were devoting their energies to the education
of the ignorant, the help of the poor; they were searching
reverently into the laws of nature ; they were celebrating in
beautiful poems a Euler of their city whose name was Love,
who sent his rain and sunshine on the evil and the good.
There were innocent children passing with laughter and
dance into the healthy vigour of maturity. Reason, Liberty,
Justice, Wealth, were there advancing, and Science was
clearing from the sky of Faith every cloud of fear and
superstition.
“ As I pondered these reports, the purpose grew within me
to make an excursion, at least, [to that city, which I had left
too early m life to know much of personally ; and so one day
I went to the station and asked for a ticket to the City of
Destruction. Amazed at my request, the station-master
informed me that there were no trains running that way for
passengers,—they had only arrangements for bringing people
away from that accursed place; and he further advised me to
be cautious lest I should be put under restraint as a fit subject
for the lunatic asylum : there was a flourishing institution of
that character in the city.
“ After this I kept quiet for a'time, and tried to be contented
with my purple cloud and trumpet; but in vain. I confided
to my parents my desire to return for a time to my native
place, but they wept at the bare mention of the project, and
evidently feared that my wits were going. Again I waited,
and sought to believe that it was best to remain where I was.
At length, however, there came to me one who spoke with a
voice not to be disobeyed. He laid on me a burden, and gave
me a shield called Truth, and said : ‘ Henceforth thou shalt be
a pilgrim. From a world believing the incredible, adoring
where it should abhor, thou shalt depart, never to return.
Whither, shall be opened to thee as thou shalt journey;
whence, is already plain.”
“ Then I turned my face toward the old world I had so
painfully left. As I drew near the border of our Prince’s
domain, I was met by one of his officers, who informed me that
I should find a bad road, and that the country was almost im¬
passable. ‘ In building the railway by which pilgrims to . the
Celestial City now travel so comfortably,’he said, ‘all the
disagreeables and dangers they once had to encounter have
been heaped on the path you propose to undertake. The dirt
taken from the tunnel of the Hill Difficulty you will now find
piled across your road. The Slough of Despond, displaced on
our line, has settled in the way by which you must go. All
the sorrows and pains once besetting the path of Christian now
waylay him who would fly in the face of what has become the
respectable and popular religion.’
“ Nevertheless, I went on. But before I had reached the
verge of the Prince's dominions a large number of his liveried
servants ran after me,, and began pelting me, crying : ‘ In¬
fidel 1 Atheist! Neologist! Pantheist! Madman !’
Somewhat bruised, I hastened onward. Soon, however,
there stood before me, preparing his darts, a monster, whom I
at once recognised. ‘ Why, how is this, Apollyon V I cried :
‘when last I encountered you, you were trying to prevent
pilgrims from reaching the Celestial City : surely you do not
oppose their return ?’ ‘ Times are changed,’ he replied, ‘ since
the railway has been opened, I have been taken into the em¬
ployment of the Prince of Otherworldliness.’ Thereupon he
let fly his darts, on each of which was written its name :
‘ Popularity,’ ‘ Parsonage,’ ‘Patronage,’ ‘Promotion,’ and the
like. But with the aid of my shield I managed to pass him ;
and though afterward I had a dreary imprisonment in Doubt-
ing Castle, its lock yielded to the key of Trust, which some
former pilgrim had dropped on the floor, and I arrived at last
within sight of the great city.”
When speaking of the career of Shelley, Mr. Conway
fires the following shot at Oxford University for its
neglect of physical science, and its worship of dead
languages in the place of more useful knowledge
“ Oxford consists at the time of a number of professors who
are busy milking a veteran and barren cow for students who
assiduously hold a sieve for pail. Their labours are suspended
for a moment by the apparition of a young gentleman, son of
a Member of Parliament, who goes about cursing the King,
denying the existence of God, and predicting the extraction of
food for the millions from air and water, the instantaneous
communication of thoughts over any distances, and the uni¬
versal travelling by air. It is not, of course, a long work to
put this wild creature on a stage-coach, and send him off,
before proceeding to work with the heifer and the sieve
again.”
In another part of the hook, Mr. Conway says:—
“ There is a story of the Holy Grail which the Laureate has
passed by, but which we may remember. In the days when
men wandered through the world seeking that cup, made of a
single precious stone, holding the real blood of Christ, a
Knight left England to search for the same in distant lands.
As he passed from his door, a poor sufEerer cried to him for
help. Absorbed in his grand hope, the Knight heeded him
not, but went on. He wandered to the Holy Land, fought in
many wars, endured much, but found not the precious cup;
and at last, disappointed and dejected, he returned home. As
he neared his own house, the same poor sufferer cried to him
for help. ‘ What dost thou require ? ’ asked the Knight. The
aged man said, ‘ Lo, I am perishing with thirst.’ The Knight
dismounted and hastened to fetch a cup of water. He held the
half-clad sufferer in his arms, raised his head, and proffered
the water to his parched lips. Even as he did so the cup
sparkled into a gem, and the knight saw in his hand the Holy
Grail, flushed with the true blood of Christ. And you, my
brothers, may wander far, and traverse many realms of philo¬
sophy and theology, to find the truth which represents the
true life-blood of the noblest soul; but you shall find it only
when and where you love and serve as he did. If you can but
give to the fainting soul at your door a cup of water from the
wells of truth, it shall flash back on you the radiance of God.
As you can save, so shall you be saved. And be you sure that
when you are really moved by the outcries of famished hearts
and brains, as by the wailings of helpless babes,—when you
deeply long to bear light and hope to men,—the ways of doing
so will open before you, even as undreamed energies to fill
them full shall be born within you.”
We strongly recommend Mr. Conway’s new book; it
is of a most interesting and varied character, sure to set
all its readers thinking more deeply than before upon
many subjects of vital interest to the welfare of humanity.
Even those who do not like some of the opinions will
admit the book to be a most valuable addition to English
and American literature.
The new Spiritual Society in Kilburn starts with plenty
of strength, as it has some energetic men and women at
the helm, and Mr. Morse, being now free from engagements at
the Cavendish Rooms, his highly useful phase of mediumship
will probably be much exercised in the Kilburn district.
The Meetings at the Cavendish Rooms.—In con¬
sequence of the Cavendish Rooms being too small to accommo¬
date those who wish to hear Mrs. Hardinge, there is a proba¬
bility that a larger building will shortly be engaged. It
would be well if a list of the names of the committee of
managers of these services were printed, also the constitutional
rules on which their election is based, because subscribers
should be entitled to a vote in the election of officers, and
not be asked to support an undertaking in which they have
no voice or control whatever.
Dec. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
THE ZOUA.YE JACOB.
We have been favoured with the following particulars about
the celebrated healing medium, popularly known as “ The
Zouave Jacob,” who is now in London, driven here as a
refugee by the present diabolical war
“ The first;time I saw M. Jacob was on Friday, the 13th of
November, 1868. I shall always look back upon that (to me)
memorable day with deep gratitude, for it proved to be the
turning point in my life, from leading the secluded life of a
confirmed invalid, to that of recovered powers and consequent
enjoyment of social life.
“ I was very ill, and had been for five years or more. Medical
skill had been exerted in vain. Kind attention and continued
residence in the genial soft air of St. Leonard’s-on-Sea were
only alleviative. I was suffering from a lingering but hopeless
form of consfimption, and was frequently so prostrate as to
feel it a painful exertion to walk across my room. The, two
months before I went to Paris I had spent with kind friends
at Swindon, who had done all in their power for me. Mr.
Young was most kind and attentive, and had the mill anything
to do in commanding powers of mediumship, assuredly his
healing power would have restored me. At first it did benefit
me, decidedly ; but the climate of the place was far too cold,
and unwillingly we were at last obliged to see that the'good
that was done by the healing power was counteracted by the
cold, and it became evident that a return to St. Leonards was
necessary. I felt depressed—nay, I am sorry to acknowledge
that I felt despairing, and most unwilling to live on helpless.
One slender hope remained for me, that was, that if I could
but get to the “ Zouave Jacob ” I might be restored. The
difficulty was to get to him at Paris. I could not go alone, but
this was1 removed by my kind friend S. W., who, on my
expressing my desire, at once volunteered to accompany me.
To attempt the journey seemed madness, and only as a last
resource could I have done it. Two other friends, Mrs. G-.,
and her friend and companion, L. C., joined us, and on the
10th of November we left Swindon for Paris.
“ Mrs. G. (who had been an invalid for many years) and I
were of course obliged to lie down the whole distance. We
reached Boulogne at eleven o’clock that evening, stayed the
night at an hotel, and taking the half-past one o’clock train on
to Paris the next day, reached our destination by seven
o’clock in the evening. We went direct to the “ Hotel
Britannique,” Rue Rivoli.
“ The next morning Mrs. G., L. B., and S. W., sallied forth to
find out M. Jacob. I did not accompany them, being glad to
rest, and, as we had always understood that it was necessary
to obtain' tickets some days before admission could be
gained, I did not suppose I was losing any time. About four
o’clock, they returned, in high glee, having seen M. Jacob,
and attended that day’s stance. Mrs. G., who had not been
able to walk without assistance for some years, came actively
up the two flights of stairs, and running into the room to 1
exhibit the benefit she had received. I am sorry to say that
this was not lasting, although I believe she never relapsed
entirely to her former condition, and has such confidence in
his power as to gladly avail herself of his presence in London
to attend some of his seances. But I will hasten on, and
feeling persuaded of the interest' all Spiritualists at least (if
not also, many who are not Spiritualists) must feel in any
details concerning one of whom much has been said, but very
little known, I will venture to give in detail the account of
my first interview with M. Jacob.
“ After half an hour’s drive in a cab we reached his little
house at Passy. It was close to Avenue 1’Empereur. It is,
indeed, painful to have to speak of all the beauties of this
lovely suburb as a thing of - the past. Adjoining the ‘ Bois
de Boulogne,’ and the sweet shady ‘ Park de la Muette,’
Passy always delighted me far more than any other part of
Paris that I visited. In the summer months, in the road
opposite M. Jacob’s house, was a miniature plantation, lovely
trees were growing, and there were beds of flowers carefully
tended. Seats were placed about, and at the end of the
plantation .were the fountains of the Artesian Wells playing.
Groups of invalids were always wandering about, or sitting
on these seats, during the hours previous to M. Jacob’s healing
seance. But, on my first visit, in November, the scene was
different. It was a gloomy, sad day. I- found crowds of poor
people lurking about, and filling the room in which the
stances for healing were held. It was a small room, in which
fifty could sit round, closely together. It had plain painted
walls and a tiled floor. The only furniture consisted of the
cheap rush-bottomed chairs so common in France, and in the
centre of the room was a close stove. M. Jacob received us
in the most genial manner, and called us into his study to
talk with him. This was almost as bare of furniture as the
other room. There were but two chairs and a long common
table on which were placed likenesses and books, which
could be purchased by any who wished in this way to give a
little remuneration for the privilege of attending the seance.
There was no stove or grate, but in the fireplace burnt a
bright fire, hedged about, by a few common bricks. These
details I give, to show the extremely frugal and inexpensive
way in which M. Jacob preferred to live, rather than accept
the money that was continually offered to him by rich
people who had'been cured by him. He entirely repudiates
all merit of his own as a healer. He says it is God’s power,
not his ; that his presence as a medium only establishes the
rappoH between each patient, and their own guardian or
healing spirits.
“ A little time before the seance, we were all assembled in our
places, and told to ! rest quietly, in perfect silence, and pray
to God to send his healing power.’
“ In about ten minutes M. Jacob quietly entered, and standing
in the centre of the room, slowly and gradually fixed his
piercing eyes on each individual present. During this silence
it is, that his clairvoyant eyes can see the nature of the illness
afflicting each one, and also whether the rapport between the
spirits and the patient is established or no. If it is, he expects
a perfect recovery; if not, no benefit can arise.
“ After standing thus for some ten minutes or quarter of an
hour, he takes each one in succession, places his hand over the
affected part, sometimes asks-some simple question, and, in the
case of complaints of the limbs, makes them move them about,
and bend in different positions, such as had appeared to them
utterly impossible to do for a long time. One man I saw
threw his arm over his head in such a way as he had been
unable to do for twenty-five years. Space will not permit me
to enter into any particulars of the marvellous cures that he
has been permitted to effect. Suffice it to say that cripples
and paralytics have been, carried in to him on sofas, and have
left walking. But he tells all that they must not expect entire
freedom from all illness at once. The more serious the illness
has been, the worse will be the reaction caused by the healing
fluid acting in the system, and overcoming all latent mischief.
For myself, as I sat en seance each of those two November
days (for I went on the 13th and 14th in succession), I was
conscious of a strong thrill of some unknown power, running
as in streams all over me, but there was no immediate change
on the very day. He told me no more good could be done by
remaining in Paris ; that the cure had commenced, and would
go on ; that it would be months before there could be entire
recovery. This all proved true; but as I was not expecting
any rapid change, I was agreeably surprised on the following
Monday (the 17th), whilst on my journey homewards, to find
myself possessed of fresh power, and such a capability of
walking about as I had not felt for years.
“ M. Jacob is now in London; his rooms are at 38, Somerset-
street, Orchard-street, W. From half-past two to six o’clock
he may be seen daily, and is glad to give his healing power to
all who like to go. His disinterestedness is as great as ever;
it is his desire that all should go, whether they can pay him
or no ; but as Ips living now entirely depends upon the volun¬
tary fees of his patients, we may, I hope, be sure that the pro¬
verbial generosity of the English people will not be found
wanting, in this his time of real need. From pecuniary con¬
siderations, he is unable to hire rooms to receive the suffering
poor, as Dr. Newton did; and thus, also, he is, as it were,
incog. The thousands who would gladly go to him know not
of his presence in our midst. As his power is stronger, the
more there are present, it would be well if any Spiritualists
willing to form a stance of invalids, rich or poor, at theit own
houses (if at too great a distance to be able to assemble at
Mi Jacob’s rooms) would do so, M. Jacob will gladly go any¬
where for this purpose. I hope to form two or three such
sea/nces in my own rooms, for the help of the poor in my
immediate neighbourhood. If this plan could be carried out
in various parts of London or the country, much good might
quietly be done, not only to the sufferers, but also to the
healer, who could surely thus soon become sufficiently known,
and receive a sufficient accumulation of small fees as to
relieve his mind from the pressure of pecuniary difficulties.
Let us always remember Christ’s ow7n words, “ The labourer
is worthy of his hire.”
Before very long I hope details of his interesting career
will be given to the public from his own pen.
Hendon. F. J. Theobald.
SPIRITUALISM IN KILBURN.
Last Friday night, the first public meeting of “ The Kilburn
Association for Investigating the Truthfulness of Spiritualism ’’
was held at the Carlton-hali, Kilburn, and Mr. Bassett was
unanimously invited to take the chair. There was a very fair
attendance, considering that the weather was bad, and the
snow lying thick on the ground.
Mr. Bassett said that the Society had been formed for the
investigation of facts. He had recently attended a seance, at
which he witnessed some astonishing things which were said
to be facts, and he, as a Christian man, was not in a position
to say they were false, unless, after investigation, he could
prove them to be so. In order that such investigation might
be made as public as possible, a meeting had been called, and
he, for one, was determined that the alleged facts of Spiri¬
tualism should be proved either to be true or false. He had
much pleasure in introducing Mr. C. W. Pearce, the president
of the new Kilburn Society.
Mr. Pearce then gave the following opening address ^
Mr. Chairman and Friends—We have met this evening to
inaugurate the Society we have formed in Kilburn, for the
purpose of investigating the truthfulness of “ Spiritualism.”
What “ Spiritualism ” is many of us know by hearsay only.
Some present have investigated it partially, and affirm that
the statements made by the Spiritualists are, in their judg¬
ment, not made without foundation. And there .are probably
others present who have determined, without investigation,
that these same statements are made whilst under the influ¬
ence of what they term “ imagination but who, neverthe¬
less, cannot rid themselves of the knowledge that these same
men and women, their neighbours, are in every other respect
very plain matter of fact persons; and therefore there may
be something in “ Spiritualism ” after all, and they intend to
find out for themselves whether there be “something” or
“ nothing ” in it.
It behoves every body of men, who unite for a specific
purpose, strictly to define their object. We therefore shortly
state our purpose to be—“ The investigating the truthfulness
of Spiritualismand we interpret the term “ Spiritualism,”
used in the sense in which we here use it, to be—“ The present
power mankind is said to possess to communicate intelli¬
gently with their brethren who have departed this life.”
How this communication is effected, what means are employed,
and under what conditions, it is not our purpose at this stage
of our address to consider, but simply to ask this question—
Is there any apparent necessity for such intercourse between
the spiritual and physical worlds ? If we can answer this
question in the affirmative, it follows, as a matter of course,
that the statements of the Spiritualists have a probability of
truth about them, and we have a reasonable reason to induce
us to investigate.
Ere we can advance a step in the enquiry, we are met by
Job, who asks—“ If a man die, shall he live again ?” This
prevents further progress; the immortality of the soul is
questioned, and it would be absurd to discuss “ whether it be
possible for immortals and mortals to hold communion ”
before we know whether there is an immortal soul with whom
to have communication.
Remember, my friends, that because you know, or believe
you do, that the soul is immortal, your belief is only of value
to you; you cannot believe for others. Nor must you con¬
clude because Job afterwards said,'“I know that my Re¬
deemer liveth, . .. and though after my skin worpas destroy
this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God,” therefore the
question was settled. Jesus Christ had to contend with it ;
the Sadducees believed in annihilation. Paul also had to
contend against it; and his strong argument in favour of it
is found in first Corinthians, fifteenth chapter, commencing
at the twelfth verse, to which argument all who call them¬
selves Christians (in the orthodox sense) triumphantly refer.
The subject is so important that I shall quote the text—“ Now
if Christ be preached, that he rose from the dead, how say
some among you that there is no resurrection from the dead ?
But if there be no resurrection from the dead, then is not
Christ risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also
vain.”
These words, or rather the idea of a futwre conscious intel¬
ligent life, which life in its surroundings is to be the out¬
growth of this present one, to be either joyous, if it have been
modelled after the pattern of the great Exemplar, or full of
sorrow,if self have been the god worshipped—is, to the majority
of believers in the Bible, the incentive to a life of brotherly
kindness, for, were not the belief that by following in the
footsteps of Jesus Christ, a future life of conscious happiness
would be the portion of His followers—a belief in a probable
fact—then would the self-denials to which some of His pro¬
fessed followers submit* to fit themselves for it, make them,
in the same writer’s words—“ Of all then, the most miserable.''
For the glorious immortality, which will be the portion of all
who follow in the footsteps of Jesus, would be a delusion.
Therefore the fact of the ascension of Jesus Christ is the
foundation stone upon which believers in the Bible build their
belief of immortality. Consequently all who, in the language
of Christianity, profess to be followers of the Man of Nazareth,
believe that, if a man die, he sliall live again.
This has not, however;, settled the question. There are
many to whom the great problem is still an unsolved one :
many earnest workers in the great field of human redemption
from ignorance and error many patient searchers into the
hidden things of God in science; many who have tried to
believe in the simple record of the life, death, and ascension
of Jesus, as it stands in the Gospels, in the longing hope that
their yearning for light might be satisfied, but who have
been driven back by the mysteries with which man has
hedged about the touching tale of a noble life, and a still
nobler death, and resurrection therefrom. These, and many
more of God’s children, who want the knowledge, who are
dying for it, turn to each other and ask the question with
bitter anguish of heart—“ If a man die, Shall he live again?”
and the reply which comes back to them is a helpless, hope¬
less, mournful repetition of it.
Standing between these two classes is another. One, how¬
ever, with which earnest minds can have but little sympathy;
“ they don’t know, and don’t much care; perhaps they may
live again, and perhaps not ; anyway they mean to enjoy
themselves whilst they have the chance.” Sensuous wallowers
in the mire of sensualism, they must eat the husks upon
which thif swine feed ere they will return to their Father.
These we \vill leave for the time.
Of the two opposite divisions to which I have referred—
one affirms a future conscious life ; the other negatives it. Of
this latter, little can be said, except that their lives are without
the sunshine in which the knowledge of im mortality enables
the former to rejoice. Of the former, conscious of immortality
though they be, also but little can be said. When they have
made their affirmation, they have, as a class, said all they
can. The surroundings, occupations, and government of the
“ life beyond the veil,” they are utterly ignorant of ; in which
ignorance they confirm themselves, by living in the belief
that it is not lawful to pry into what they call “ the hidden,
things of God.”
These, my friends, are the platforms upon which humanity
stands at this time.
The fact that there are minds to whom the records of the
Bible, full as they are to us of the evidences of immortality,
convey no proof of an immortal life sufficiently strong to
enable them to have confidence in such an existence, is
probably to be accounted for by one or both of the following
theories: either they do not believe the records, or they are
of that special class, typified by Thomas, who need sensuous
demonstration ere they can accept as fact any statement, no
matter by whom made. And let it be remembered that such
minds are of God’s making, and Jesus Christ recognised and
admitted their right to this kind of proof when he said to
Thomas, “ reach hither thy finger and behold My hands.”
. Minds of this class could not be satisfied with the Bible
records. But what are we to say of that other class, who, not
needing sensuous demonstration, can satisfy their desire for
knowledge by logical reasoning based upon sound premises,
and who nevertheless do not accept the facts of immortality,
although they have access to the Bible records. Evidently
they have no confidence in them. In reply to our question,
Why they have no confidence in them ? they answer—and, it
behoves those who love the Bible carefully to consider their
reasons—
1st.—That those who expound the Bible prove from it—or say they do,
which amounts to the same thing—propositions diametrically opposed to
each other, as, for instance, the three Gods of the Trinitarians—God
the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost; this doctrine being
opposed by the Unitarians, who affirm that the Bible teaches the existence
of one God only, that God being God the Father; Jesus Christ, or God the
Son of the Trinitarians, being but a man. And with each of these do the
Swedenborgians join issue; for whilst they assert that there is but one God,
they teach that He is Jesus Christ himself, and that Jehovah and Jesus
Christ are but two names for one and the same person, whom they designate
“ The Lord.”
2nd.—That one class of expounders say, God has selected a portion of
humanity to live with Him in happiness; these he calls “His elect; ” whilst
the remainder, who are not elected, He damns. Another class say, God
damns no one, it being mankind who damns itself by turning away from
goodness, and voluntarily 'choosing evil. Another section says that no
person ever was damned, nor can be; all will be dwellers in eternal
happiness.
3rd.—That these same expounders do not, after all, agree that man is
immortal. Some teach that he is bom with immortality inherent in his
nature; others deny this, and assert that immortality is a special gift
conferred by God on those (and only on those) who believe in the dogmas
taught by these same teachers, those who do not believe being annihilated.
4th.—That all these contradictory teachings are dogmatically taught by
men who say they are ambassadors between God and man,—and therefore
Araow,—"further asserting that the Bible authorises their teachings, and that
it is divinely inspired.
These, my friends, are a few of the reasons why the latter
class of minds (otherwise open to conviction) are unable to
accept upon Bible testimony the immortality of the soul. I
endorse as true their conclusion that teachings based upon
such contradictory assertions are unreliable and I throw upon
these teachers the heavy responsibility which the wrecking of
millions of immortal souls entails. The infidelity and atheism
now rampant in England are attributable to their having
hidden God’s truth under a lie, and made void the Word of
God by their traditions. Fear not, however, for the truths of
the Bible ; not one jot nor tittle shall pass away till all be
fulfilled.
We have passed in review -two distinct classes of minds,
and every unprejudiced person must admit that there is
ground for the question—“ If a man die, shall he live again ?”
And further, that the Bible testimony has been so seriously
interfered with, by man at various times, that for purposes of
conviction it has, to those minds just considered, very little
influence.
The other class needs sensuous demonstration; and their
right to sensuous demonstration has been recognised and
admitted by Jetsus Christ Himself, as evidenced by the
manner in which He dealt with Thomas.
There is, therefore, an apparent necessity for intercourse
between those who have departed this life, and those who
remain ; and, to be honest, the necessity is more than ap¬
parent—it is real. We are, therefore, justified in admitting
the probability of “ Spiritualism.”
It may, however, be urged by some that many of the
modem manifestations are trivial. I shall not say either
aye or nay to this assertion, simply reminding such objectors
that if the end to be attained be good, the means employed
must also be good. It must also be borne in mind that when
124
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1870.
God (as the Bible says) selected Gideon to be one of the
Saviours of Israel, Gideon was only content to accept the
leadership of the people, provided God would consent to pre¬
serve a pidce of a fleece of wool from the dew which fell
during the night—and contrariwise pour dew upon the same
fleece, the ground itself being dry. You will also remember
that Gideon was directed by God to choose his fighting men,
by simply causing the army to drink at a river, and all who
“lapped water like a dog ” were selected. Very trivial we
might consider were the means employed to bring about such
mighty results ; nevertheless such mere the means employed.
Some object to “ mediums V being paid for the exercise of
their mediumship ; these forget that Samuel, the prophet of
the Lord, was paid S^d. by Saul (before he was anoihted king)
to induce him to tell him where his father’s cattle had strayed.
I now leave the subject in your hands. If you are as noble
as the men of Berea, spoken of in the Acts of the Apostles,
you will, one and all, determine to investigate for yourselves
whether these things be so.
A brief discussion then took place ; it was begun by
Mr. Bonfield, who argued that modem Spiritualistic manifes¬
tations were real, but the work of demoniacal spirits. The
arguments for and against this view were much the same as
those which are printed in full in No. 13 of The Spiritualist.
The Chairman, in summing up, said that the meeting
seemed to have unanimously acknowledged the reality of
Spiritual manifestations, and to have raised a new question,
namely, whether Spiritualism is good or evil. As regards the
few manifestations which he had seen, there whs nothing in
them to lead to the conclusion that they were produced' by
the Devil. (Hear, hear.)
The meeting then broke up. Mr. A. C. Swinton, 5, Cam-
bridge-road, Kilburn, is the Secretary to the Society.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
On Monday evening, December 5th, Mrs.' Emma Hardinge
delivered an inspirational address on “ Spiritualism and its
Relations to Science,” at the Beethoven Rooms, Harley-street,
Cavendish-square. Mr. Benjamin Coleman presided. Whilst
delivering these addresses, Mrs. Hardinge is either uncon¬
scious, or has a dreamy idea of what she is saying. When
the hall is small, and crowded with listeners near the plat¬
form, she is quite unconscious. While speaking when the plat¬
form is large, and the listeners not too close, she has a dreamy
idea of the nature of her address. These addresses are always
given extemporaneously, and questions put by the listeners
are answered in language and ideas equal to those of the.
addresses themselves. The following is the address she de¬
livered at the Beethoven Rooms :—
SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND SPIRITUALISM. '
The question has been constantly raised by those who are
unacquainted with the details of Spiritual phenomena—“ Why
have these rapping spirits revealed to us' nothing new ? Why
have they thrown no light upon science ? In what respect, if
any, can their communion with earth, granted it be true,
afEord light to science or reveal to the world aught that may
be considered utilitarian or beneficial ?” It is not in view of
these questions alone that our subject is selected to-night.
We do not require to defend Spiritualism from the remarks of
those who know it not; we only desire to offer you an exposi¬
tion of its truths, for its exposition is its defence, and there¬
fore it is to a brief exposition of some of the relations
which some of its phenomena sustain to well-known phases
of a science, that we ask your attention this night. Science,
as defined by those who prefer a practical analysis to a
lexicographical definition, means the system by which the
universe is ruled and governed, all the various methods,
all the laws by which the wonderful arcana of being are
inaugurated and conducted. In general terms, then, science
is the exposition of the laws of being. In special senses the
various methods of creation may be understood by science.
Now, up to the last century, all that scientists have gained of
knowledge concerning these vast, stupendous, and occult laws
of being, has concerned the visible universe only. Within
the last century the discovery of gas and electricity has turned
a new page in science, and revealed the astounding fact that
the visible universe is the subject of the invisible, that force
moves upon, if not calls matter into being; that force, as far
at least as it has been examined or observed, is the real
essence of being. There is no being without force, and force
is invisible. And to these stupendous discoveries science has
added laurel wreaths of triumph until at last the whole of
the visible universe, and the invisible forces that move it,
seem to have become open pages to the eye of the scientist.
Who can number up the vast wealth of knowledge that
science has given to mankind? Who can begin to define
the almost boundless realms of power that science has afforded
to mankind ? Yet there is a point where science has utterly
failed—at that point where the scientist himself enters upon
the field of observation. All around him is an open page on
which the illuminating beams of the sun have written “ Know¬
ledge,” and where they were insufficient man has learned to
decompose them by keen analysis, to determine how to use
them and turn them to practical account. But the sunbeams
of the physical universe have never yet pierced the veil that
conceals the Isis of his own soul; there before the solemn
mystery of life, there before the eternal throb df the great
heart of humanity, science has become speechless; there before
the solemn mystery of the grave science fails, there before
the equally solemn mystery of fyirth science is blind. That
which science has attempted to reveal to the world in the
form of metaphysics is but a term wholly unworthy of the
consideration of the man who, by an accumulation of facts, has
learned to comprehend the universe. There are no facts in
that which has hitherto been called metaphysics, or the world
of power beyond physics. An attempt to define how the
human mind might act under certain circumstances is all that
the metaphysician has ever been able to achieve. To tell us
of the essence, to give us a physiological account of the soul,
to pretend to analyse its functions, powers, possibilities, its
advent into being and its exit into the mighty mystery of the
beyond, what metaphysician has ever attempted to write the
page that could offer an illuminating beam upon these mighty
mysteries ? Here, then, science has been alike blind, and dumb,
and in its proud egotism—oh, forgive the term, scientist;
still we repeat, for there is no other word that can explain the
action of science towards this magnificent field of observa¬
tion—in its proud egotism unable to explain or advance into
the field of observation beyond the mere effects of mind,
science has assumed that the cause is less than the effect, and
that the atoms which the mind controls, the dust that forms
its mere mould, the clay which it spurns, controls, and masters,
is the cause of and has generated the wonderful and supreme
glory of spirit. This is all that science has been able to do ;
and the world, baffled by the absurdity of attempting thus to
account for the existence of force by pointing to the matter
which makes it an existence at all, has wistfully turned to
religion and demanded of religion “What answer?” And re¬
ligion, unable to follow in the track of science, and it may be,
unwilling to pervert the sacred and awful mystery of spirit
by so childish and absurd an explanation, has deepened the
mystery by reversing all the experiences of science, and declar¬
ing that, at certain times and under certain circumstances, and in
certain places, the arm of the Great Spirit was shortened, His
power failed, His masterful and omniscient eye became blind,
and unable to contrive a scheme whose permanence and power
should endure from one eternity to another, He succeeded
in repairing an imperfect scheme by the suspension of law,
and enacted a miracle. These are the only explanations that
are given us of the mighty problems of immortality, spiritual
existence, and the soul’s birth and destiny ; and it is in such
moments of blindness and darkness as these that the gates
are opened, and through the science of sciences, through the
mighty revelation of a spiritual science, that the Infinite Mind
Himself has become our teacher, and that we now sit at the
feet of the Heavenly One, of the mighty and the infinite
Architect of Being, and learn of Him that, though the laws of
physics can never explain the laws of spirit, there are a set
of higher laws which come into operation when we enter upon
the grand and hitherto untrodden fields of spiritual existence.
We need not remind you that this revelation has come like all
our Father’s works from a germ seed; from the simplest, hum¬
blest, and apparently most insignificant of sources; from one
not less potential, not less momentous than the little acorn
from which originates the mighty giant of the forest; not
mightier than the nucleated cell which forms the embryotic
germ of the mightiest man that ever trod the earth; not more
organic or splendid than the nebulous matter which floats in
the skies, and at last becomes aggregated now into the comet,
now into the satellite, and it may be into the nucleus of suns
and systems. Such is God’s method. “ Be still and know that I
am God,” speaks every voiceless atom when we attempt to
call it too insignificant to be worthy the action of the Infinite
Mind. And so by these little germ seeds of the tiny raps
have we been permitted to enter into the adytum of the
temple of Spiritual existence.
It is now my purpose to follow out the results that they
have laid before you, and to speak, as we have promised, of
what new laws, new forces, and new possibilities, are revealed
to us through the phenomena of modern Spiritualism. To
those who have- neither observed them nor condescended to
acknowledge their existence, if any such be present, we have
no word to say, no more than we should offer colour to the
blind, or the anthem of the Creation to the deaf. It is only
to those who have followed us through the alphabet that we
speak this night. You know that the phenomena of Spiritual¬
ism, or the external signs of the presence of a spirit, may now,
as in olden times, be classified. We do not know that there is
much difference between this nineteenth century and the first
in regard to the possibility of classifying Spiritual gifts. We
have heard for 1870 years the charge of the wise ancients, that
we should not be ignorant concerning Spiritual gifts, but we
are so profoundly ignorant, whilst our ears have drunk in the
charge for eighteen centuries, that there are thousands and
tens of thousands at this day who do not know that there are
any Spiritual gifts at all. You will therefore pardon us for
reciting some of those forms of phenomena. They consist in
the rappings, the movement of ponderable bodies, the produc¬
tion of lights, manifestation of hands and forms, the appari¬
tion of Spiritual beings, the production of voices, and various
other sounds and other motions. Feats of physical strength
have been exhibited, chemical combinations have been pro¬
duced,- bodies have been carried through the air, and a world
of influence acting upon the minds of those called the media,
has been evolved, proving that there are two classes of mani¬
festation : the one which acts through a force that emanates,
in all probability, from the person of the medium, an invisible
unknown force, and the other a power which. psychologically
impresses the mind and compels the action of the medium. It
is chiefly of the first class of phenomena that we shall speak
to-night, and 'show you, at least, five phases of novelty, and
very scientific novelty.
a blot upon your forehead, until you can explain that which
constitutes the force by which these spirit people can manifest
themselves in presence of an uninstructed andimpassive medium,
close your books. Your physiology does not advance one step
beyond the earth on which you tread, the mighty problems of
the before and the hereafter are a sealed book to you, and the
most ignorant Spiritualist, whom ye affect to despise, knows
more of causation and effect than all the physiologists that
ever wrote. This is a page of new science. You may ignore
it by bald denial. It is far easier to assume that millions of
your fellow-creatures are fools—such, fools as not to know
their right hand from their left, or such knaves as to be in an
universal system of collusion—than that you can be wrong.
Nevertheless, the millions still persist in reiterating the facts
of this Spiritual physiology, and you are left behind ; and in
the game of Spiritual science you cannot advance one foot
until you have explained what is the force, what is the essence,
what is the function, organ, or power, by which these marvels
are effected in the presence of the unlettered medium.
SPIRITUALISM AND PHYSIOLOGY.
You know—those who are familiar with the methods of
evolving phenomena—that the presence of certain exceptional
persons seems to be always demanded. Now, as in ancient
times, when these spirit people can manifest their presence,
it is always through an aura, or through some force connected
with special individuals. What is this speciality ? We will
ask physiology. Physiology is a science, which, added to
anatomy, undertakes to explain the living structure. Physio¬
logy not only takes from anatomy a classification of the various
parts and organs of that structure, but follows out their
motions through the living tissue. A grand science is physio¬
logy. It informs us, even to the innermost, to the most
secret chambers of life; it informs us of the various modes
and methods by which all the. wonderful machinery of life is
conducted. It has never yet told us a word of what life is,
but doubtless it will, for that seems to be the speciality and
aim of physiology. Now we must ask the physiologist what
sort of force or function is that which enables a young child,—
a frail, perhaps ignorant, rustic, with no motion, no action, no
will of his own,—to furnish the means by which the inhabitants
of an unknown world can manifest their presence? So long
as that individual is present, the most marvellous and startling
evidences of an invisible intelligence are rendered; remove
that individual, and all is silent; the phenomena end: we
stand with nought but memory to give us the assurance that
there is a spirit-world at all, or that the missionaries from this
vast and hitherto unknown continent have been in our midst.
What kind of force is this ? It is not matter, for we carefully
watch him or her that we call the medium. Perfect passivity
is all that seems to be demanded. It is not mind, for we
know that will cannot effect the motion of a rose-leaf. We
may will from now until the crack of doom that this object
shall move, and it shall remain motionless, until the action of
time shall disintegrate every fragment, and it shall become
dust and ashes, and never a living fabric instinct with motion.
And yet the presence of this child, this rustic, this ignorant
and impassive being, shall cause that object to be a thing of
life, and it shall telegraph words and messages, and shall
speak of the things of immortality; it shall sound out mes¬
sages from the corridors of eternity; it shall proclaim the
existence of the Great Spirit, and shall sound the oratorio of
creation from one eternity to another. Physiology—what
sort of force is this ? Where does it reside ? In what order ?
What kind of function is this? Speak, or for ever be dis¬
graced ! The spirit medium stands in your path, physiologists,
SPIRITUALISM AND MECHANICS.
There is a portion of physics which we call mechanics, and
this portion of physics undertakes to explain the various
motions. We may not use the technical terms, but you under¬
stand what we mean. We Say that the various motions of the
universe—that is, of that portion of it that we call our planet—
are explained and defined by mechanics. Mechanics under¬
takes to show us how we can procure motion. The last
discovery that has been made of. motive powers is vaguely
called electricity or galvanism ; but the various motions that
we can' procure for ourselves, such as animal power or
mechanical power, man-power, or any, other chemical power;
for instance, all these are defined in the realm of physics, and
may commonly be called mechanics, the mechanics of the
universe. Now there is one form of motion that as yet we do
not find recorded in any pages of the physicist.. None that
he has ever written attempts to define by what power a table
floats in space, or bodies are removed from one point to
another without any visible or known cause. Again we find
denial resorted to. Whilst tables and floating bodies and
erratic things are perpetually gyrating and rotating and
moving generally through space, they tell a tale more poten¬
tial than all the denials of the ignorant. They continue to
move, they insist upon moving, and not all the bold, blank,
and presumptuous assertions of those who do not know of
what they speak have ever been sufficient to prevent these
erratic motions. We know that the last resort of antagonism,
when it is no longer able to deny the fact, is to question the
use of it. “ Granted that your tables dance, and your chairs
move, and your furniture generally behaves as furniture is not
accustomed to do—granted that all this be true—of what use is
it ? ’’ Of what use are the sands by the sea shore ? Of what
use are the grains of dust beneath our feet ? Of what use are
noxious insects ? Of what use are the humble flowers that
bloom in the desert ? Of what use are the non-producers and
idlers that lounge about our city streets ? We may follow out
these questionings until at last we arraign the Infinite Wisdom,
and question wherefore He created anything which we cannot
tell the use of, or coin into wealth. The whole question is
answered by the movement of a single roseleaf. Unless we
are in a position to determine that there exists an inherent
force in that leaf which enables it to move of itself, that one
leaf is sufficient to suggest the opening of the gates of a new
science, a new form of motion. Should you now go forth into
the city streets and behold any object moving itself, no matter
whether intelligently or usefully, but manifesting the power
of motion, and neither wind, nor wave, nor galvanism, nor
magnetism, nor animal, nor man power, was at work to cause
that motion, would you not rally round the marvel, and would
you not exhaust all the resources and all the acumen of
scientific power and observation to determine what form of
motion it was ? and until you could explain it, it is a motion
that baffles you, though it should be nothing but a roseleaf.
A rose-leaf is mightier than £ou ; a roseleaf possesses a secret
which you cannot spell out; a roseleaf is one of the unfinished
problems of creation until you can solve the power by which
it moves. And so our dancing tables and vibrating furniture
are the evidence that there is a new motive power which
neither mechanic, nor operative, nor scientist has yet classified,
has yet defined, and which he is only able to deal with by
shielding his ignorance by bald denial.
SPIRITUALISM AND OPTICS.
There is a science called Optics. We do not undertake now
to speak to the line and measure of scientific phrase ; we are
simply speaking to the comprehension of the multitude. We
know that, with all the vast area of essays and treatises that
have been written on the science of optics—with all the vast
amount of tomes, even to the filling of libraries, that have
been written on this subject—we may condense the whole of
the learning and information which they render by saying
that optics, or the science of vision, if you please, which
undertakes to explain how the human eye informs the soul
of certain objects, may be defined in a few words, thus:—
In order to perceive by human sight, it first requires that
there should be a curious collection of lenses, an admirable
and wonderful arrangement, a telescopic object, which we call
the human eye, and that this should be in perfect integrity.
Next, that there shall be a material object to observe ; next,
that the object shall be in space, that is to say, in a certain
relation in the world to the eye which perceives ; next, that
the object shall be in time, that is, time present; not time
past, that is but memory; not time future, that is but dream¬
ing, or clairvoyance, or any other term by which you may de¬
fine that which is not perceived. These are the conditions of
human sight—a material eye, a material object, time, and
space. Now, learned opticians, scientists, who have flooded
the world with treatises on this occult subject, do you know
that there is a kind of sight that exists, independent of the
human eye, which does not require for perception a material
object, which does not need the conditions of time or the'
limitations of space? Again, denial will not serve your pur¬
pose, for the facts of clairvoyance are stronger and more
potential than the loud rude tongue of denial. Clairvoyance
is a description of sight which never demands the aid of the
human eye. To the sleeper, to the dreamer, to the eye care¬
fully protected from the light, and obscured by all the methods
and tests that you can possibly adopt, sight ist just as perfect.
The object perceived is sometimes the spirit of the dead, a
thing that has no material existence ; a being, the material
portion of which is dust and ashes beneath your feet; and
yet that the object is perceived, ten thousand and twice told
ten thousand vivid descriptions have proved. Clairvoyance
does not always need to observe the form or image of a per¬
son ; clairvoyance takes note of distant scenes, and places,
and objects: it perceives the distant past—not only the gar-
Continued on page 127.
Dec. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
125
CHARGES FOB ADVERTISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Salf-a-guinea per sixth of a
column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a column, or
portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates will be “ displayed" so as
to occupy the full space paid for, but advertisements at the following rates
will be in closely set type:—
3. General Advertisements, FLalf-n-crown per first five lines or portion of
five lines, and Fourpence for every line in addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling per first four
lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or initial letters count
■ as one word.
When five or more insertions .of the same advertisement are paid for,
twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertisement.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the Publisher, Mr.
E. W. ALLEN, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London, F.C.
All leters should be brief and to the point, as the amount of space avail¬
able for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by letter only, ad¬
dressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St.
Paul's Church-yard, London, E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in Eng¬
land, together with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with the literary
work o/The Spiritualist, but all letters will meet with careful considera¬
tion.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great freedom of ex¬
pression to all the different shades of opinion to be found among Spiri¬
tualists. There will therefore be very little uniformity in the ideas pro¬
mulgated in this journal, more especially in the correspondence columns.
Under these circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the right of reply
remains. This freedom of thought given to others, the Editor claims for
himself, and those who do not like the contents of leading articles can write
against them in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a pale weak mediocrity,
by inserting only those contributions which please everybody. The preceding
remarks are not intended to imply that those viho have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them here, for none
but those letters which are considered worth publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism should be
sent to the office several days in advance.
Ho Subscribers.
The first eighteen numbers of The Spiritualist will be forwarded regu¬
larly by halfpenny post to subscribers, who remit five shillings and three¬
pence in payment to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher, Ave Maria-lane, St.
Paul's-chxirchyard, E. G. No notice will be taken of orders received unac¬
companied by a remittance.
When the day of issue chances to fall upon a Sunday, this journal will
be printed on the preceding Saturday, and published on the following
Monday.
“ THE SPIKITUAL NEWS.”
“ The Spiritual News,” published on the first of every month,-
PRICE ONE PENNY, IS ISSUED IN CONNECTION WITH “ THE SPIRITUALIST,”
PUBLISHED ON THE FIFTEENTH OF EVERY MONTH, PRICE THREEPENCE.
There is therefore a fortniohtly supply of news, at fourpence per
month. Eight copies of each of the first twelve numbers of “ The
Spiritual News ” will be sent free by the halfpenny post to those
WHO REMIT NINE SHILLINGS IN PAYMENT TO THE PUBLISHER, E. W. ALLEN,
Ave Maria Lane, London, E.O.
The Spiritualist is registered for transmission abroad.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1870.
SPECULATIONS ABOUT SPIRIT NAMES.
Spiritualistic investigators soon find out that much
mist and perplexity hangs over the subject of the names
given by spirits. Through some mediums proper names
can very rarely be given at all; through others the
names giveji are symbolical; through others they are
untrue; and through others again, names and addresses
are true to the letter. All mediumship, and all
intelligence conveyed from one person to another, are
but processes of the externalisation of thought; link
over link does the thought travel through the interior
mechanism of the brain and body, before the tongue
causes the air to vibrate, to convey knowledge to the
listener by means of blows struck upon the drum of
his ear.
How the spirits often say that thoughts are real
things, and material to them; so, if we suppose, simply
for the purpose of illustration, that spirits can see a
thought traversing a channel which to them may be,
say two yards long, before it is externalised in air¬
waves, then a rational hypothesis may be formed to
explain some of the confusion caused by spirit names.
The proper names in common use among men con¬
vey no thought; the word “ Jenkins ” has no meaning
of its own. How suppose an advanced spirit to be able
to originate ideas in the mind of a medium, but to
have no power over the lower or material part of the
organism of the mediumistic instrument he uses, he
can only attempt to transmit the name of “ Jenkins,”
by suggesting some thought connected with the indi¬
vidual just mentioned. He might thus put the idea,
say, “of a good man,” into the higher or interior
portion of the mind of the medium; as this thought
passes outwards, beyond the control of the spirit, the
mind of the medium translates the idea, till finally,
instead of the word “Jenkins,” the word “ Jesus,” or
the name of some deceased local preacher, say “ Jones,”
whom the medium believes to be a pattern of goodness,
comes out of the mouth. This must be very aggra¬
vating to the spirit who started the message, supposing
him to know how his efforts had been warped by the
telegraphic instrument partially under his control.
If this be true, it is plain that those spirits who can
act only upon the higher portions of the mind, are likely
to be able to give higher and better teachings than
spirits who can give proper names with ease, because
the latter act upon the more material and external parts
of the human organism. Observation, we think, will
prove this to be a fact, and will establish the principle
that high and great teachings are rarely received
through “ test ” mediums, who give with accuracy the
names of deceased persons they never knew, as well as
dates and places. On the other hand, probably, obser¬
vation will prove that inspirational mediums, through
whom high and grand thoughts are given, are very
rarely mediums for the transmission of proper names.
In those very rare and exceptional cases where both
these classes of mediumship are united in one person,
perhaps he has a great band of high and low spirits
about him, working under the superintendence of a
skilful, guiding intelligence, and perhaps all of them work
in turn, and pilot the original thought safely along the
whole channel. Another point in favour of these ideas
is, that the lower spirits have more direct power than
the higher ones over common matter. Those who
cause disturbances in haunted houses are invariably of
a low order, relatively to the average state of advance¬
ment of civilised men.
When credulous people who have a weak reverence
for what are commonly considered to be great names,
hold spirit circles without having any useful object in
view, they are very commonly deceived by the idle and
vagabond order of spirits who give them great names
to their hearts content, from Alexander the Great, the
Khan of Tartary, and the Duke of Wellington, down to
the Thirsty Woman of Tutbury. Among the spiritual
gentry who thus feed the vanity of deluded listeners,
Faraday’s and Livingstone’s abound, and the very
foolish and contradictory messages they give are some¬
times posted straight off to the Koyal Institution, the
Royal Geographical Society, or the local paper, so
that outsiders are furnished with data which give them
anything but a flattering opinion of the alleged spirits
who give, and of the mortals who receive, the messages
aforesaid. On the other hand, some of the finest philo¬
sophical and religious teachings given in London from
the spirit-world have been uttered through the lips
of Mr. Morse by one who calls himself “ The Strolling
Player,” but who refuses to give any name at all,
“ Because it would serve no useful 'purpose.”
There are many spirits acting through many
mediums, who employ themselves in developing
mediums, and in healing diseases by mesmerism;
many of these call themselves “ Mesmer,” because
the name conveys a useful idea, but they acknowledge,
for the most part, that in earth-life they were some¬
body else. Then, again, “ John King” is a name very
commonly given in England and America, by the
presiding spirit at voice-circles, where the spirits
speak audibly. These have sometimes said that the
name “ John King ” is symbolical of “ power.” The
name “ Jesus,” again, is often used in spiritual com¬
munications to symbolise “ love.”
One very useful result springs from the fact that
the higher teachings received from the spirits, often
come from those who either refuse to give any name
at all, or who give names unknown to fame. The
practical lesson is thus taught that the worship of
great names is a foolish thing, and that the value
of a man or spirit should be judged, not by his name
or titles, but by that which he does for the good of his
fellow creatures. Empty words, in the shape of names
and titles, have a strong influence yet in England:
the said names often command political and other
power, because the people worship the name, and do
not rationally estimate the actual value of the man or
the institution which they so blindly reverence. Sup¬
pose a nation were governed by a trades-union of land-
owners and lawyers, if such a legislature chose for
itself a high-sounding name, and drilled reverence for
the empty name into the heads of the populace from
their youth upwards, these people will mistake the
name for the thing itself, and be pauperised because
they cannot trace out the cause of their poverty, or see
why it is that they are severed from the land and
the wealth of the nation.
These ideas about the names given by spirits are
here suggested merely as speculations, which may or
may not be, by general observation, established as
proved truths. Too much belief is prevalent among
Spiritualists that the messages as received by us are
the same as when they left the spiritual source,
whereas there is plenty of evidence that they are often
forced into the material world by complicated and
difficult processes. When a seeing-medium, in pitch-
darkness told our reporter that a spirit was going to
touch his hand with her finger, as narrated in the
October number of The Spiritualist, his hand, which
was beneath the table, was instantly tapped in its
centre with a roll of paper. Yet the medium saw
a finger. Probably a spirit was acting by thought upon
her organs of vision, whilst other spirits were by other
processes moving the roll of paper, so that the evidence
given of spirit-action and intelligence was the result
of complicated processes of which the observers had no
conception.
CHILD-LIFE IN THE SPIRIT WORLD.
A very interesting little book, called Heaven Opened,* has
just been published, and it contains messages from children
in the higher world, to their little brothers and sisters on
earth, which messages were given through writing medium-
ship. The authoress of the book is very well known among
Spiritualists, but her name is not appended to her work,
which is rather to be regretted, since this is a time when al.
Spiritual manifestations placed on record ought to be fully
authenticated. It is a most interesting little book, as the
following extracts will show :—
January 3rd, 1870,
“(Present—F. J. T., E.T., and the four children—Teddy,
Ernest, Franky, and Nellie, ages varying from eleven to
six years).
I We asked, ‘ Is Horace here ? ’
“ ‘ Yes.’ ✓
“ Teddy—‘ What is it like up there ? ’
“ ‘ Little Horace’s love to his dear little brothers and sisters
and he says tell them it’s so pretty here. It is prettier than
with them. And we have such pretty flowers, and I sit in
the flowers, like a chair that rocks; it is such nice fun ! ’
“ Ernest—‘ Did you suffer much when you were here ? ’
“ ‘ I don’t know about earth, because our good God does
not let me suffer. He kept me free from pain. It was a
dream of sadness; for it was sad, what little I did think,
because of my bad head. It’s well now, and none of the
little children are ill here ! I’m so happy. I want you all
to be very good boys and girl, and then I can often come and
see you. But when you are naughty, then you have very bad
spirits near you. Don’t do so, for it’s bad for me, and you
love little Horace. My name now is Buttercup. Is not that
very funny? It’s because I like to sit in the buttercups best of
all; they dance about and look so lovely. I wish you were
all here, but be good where you are, and then you will come ;
only not yet. I love you all very, very much. We all love
each other here, never feel angry or naughty, because God
keeps the naughty spirits away from us. I must go now.
When you are going to be naughty, you must say, “ Please,
God the Father, take care of me, and take the naughtiness
away,” and then He will, and I can see you then. Dear little
Horace told your loving mother what to say.’
“ Teddy—‘ Have you seen Jesus 1 ’
“‘Yes, dearest Teddy; I will tell] you of Him another
time.’
“E. T.—‘ Have] you heen your little cousins who died in
America 1 ’
“ ‘ Yes. We are together, because you are all bound together
by a bright string of flowers. It reaches all over the world,
where all you love are together.’
“ Ernest—‘ I wonder whose name is Daisy ? ’
. “ ‘ Louisa, my sister and yours, is Daisy.’ ”
January 4th.
“ (Present, the same as before, and also M.T.).
“ f Are you here to-night ? ’ we asked.
I ‘ Yes.’
“ Ernest—‘ Ask Horace if he has wings.’
“‘Louisa is here, with all your little spirits, such a pretty
group. We are standing around you, over your heads, because
then we breathe down upon you all, and love you much.
We have no wings, such as you think we have ; but we can
use our limbs much better than you can ; and when we wish
to rise up, we can do so, but we don’t want to fly, as you
think we do. You like to think of flying high ; but we have
such beautiful grass to roll on, and such lovely flowers to sit
in, we don’t want wings, and have not got them.’
“ M. T.—‘ How can you sit in the flowers ? ’
“ I Our flowers are so large, many of them we sit in;
we are little spirits; and then the big, clever spirits
spirits can form all sorts of couches and carriages of the
flowers, in which we are carried about. You would be so very
happy here, as we are. I, Louisa, am writing, and dear little
Horace is holding my hands, and he says, i Let me love them
all, because I was with them a little before I came here.’ He
is not very wise yet, but we are teaching him, and we all live
together. And Uncle E ’s little ones are here with us,
and we go to see them often.’
“ Ernest—‘ Have you any dahlias ? ’
No ; but lots of roses, and flowers, more lovely in form
and scent than you can think of ; and they sing ! When the
air moves they sing.'
“ M. T. —1 Can you tell us under what conditions, if any, we
shall be able to see you 1 ’
“ ‘ I don’t know what you can do, as it looks to me as if you
did see us all. It’s only the strange hard body you are in
you can’t see through. We don’t see your bodies much, only
♦ London, James Boms, 15, Southampton-row, W.O.
126
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1870.
your spirits. Some people look at us, and when we speak,
they don’t answer. I don’t know why ; but I see that Aunt
3? says it’s because they have not got their spirit eyes
open. You must ask clever spirits that. Ask dear grand¬
mamma, whom we love. She knows so much, and is so
good.’
‘ * L. T.—‘ Can’t you tell us more ? ’
| (Written very joyfully and largely)—4 No; good-night.
Not any more now. We all kiss you. Don’t you feel it?
We go.’
“ M. T.—‘ Will mamma answer my question? ’
“1 Dearest M , I am hoping as the time goes on, and
the blessed truth of Spiritualism extends, that the materiality
that divides us from your sight will be removed. I can’t tell
whether you might have the power of seeing, but I’m sure you
might have the writing very soon, if you would but trustfully
let us guide you, not thinking it is your own writing. This
is often a hindrance to beginners. My precious boys, we are
as near as we can be, for we live in one complete magnetic
circle. Leave off.’ ”
January 7th.
“ (Present, the same as before).
“ Franky—‘ What is God’s throne like ? ’
“ ‘ You want to know of God’s throne. I don’t know quite
what you mean by this, my dearest Franky. God is every¬
where. We know Christ, but not God.’
“E.T.—1 Is Christ God?’
“ ‘ Fes.’
P$ E. T.—‘ Is there any difference ? ’
f ‘ No difference. Christ is our God, our Brother, our
Teacher. God is in the higher and wiser heavens. We little
spirits go to Christ, and He nurses us, and loves us very
much : and so He does you. He is very sad if he thinks you
are naughty, because He told me so.’
P E. T.—‘ Who writes.?
“ ‘ Little Horace partly, but not alone, he is so very young.’
“ Ernest—‘ Do you have any lessons.’
“1 Yes, We all do ; but little Horace only plays yet. But
in play we learn. God is our good Father, and He sends
Christ to come to us. We have lots of music, and sing always,
and all we love come to see us. Dearest Ernest, you do try
to be a good boy, and I do want you all to be very loving to
each other, for you should remember what Christ said, “ Do to
others as you would be done by.” This is what He teaches
us all, and we always love each othor. Do so too, and then
you will be happier.’
Franky—‘ Do you learn Latin ? ’
“ ‘ We may come and help you to learn your lessons ; but
we don’t learn any languages here, as you do. We learn to
talk by looking at each other ; and our talk is not like your
talk on earth. Little Horace has to be taught to speak through
Aunt F .’
“ Ernest—‘ Can you help us at school ? ’
“1 Yes ; if you are good; and do all of you pray God’s
prayer He sent you by me. You must be kind to all. Not
tease, because then God keeps me from you.’
“ F. J. T.—‘ Won’t you give Franky a message : he is so
wanting one ? ’
“ ‘ Yes, we love little Franky, and tell him we all want to
help him. Sometimes he won’t let us! But we all try, and
he’U soon be a good boy. Leave off now.’ ”
January 8th.
“ Ernest—f Who is called Primrose ? ’
None of us.’
“ Teddy—‘ What do you see there ? ’
“‘Very lovely trees, and fields, and birds, and flowers, and
pretty horses and dogs, and all that is very pretty.’
| Ernest—“ Who is writing now ? ’
“ ‘ Little Horace. We should like to see you all here very
much, but you must be all very good children, and then you
can do good on earth, and prepare to come and live with us
all. We are so happy, and live in such a pretty house, in a
very lovely garden. We all play and sing music. Pretty
songs about God’s great love to us little ones, and His good¬
ness to all the whole lot of worlds He has made.’
“ Teddy—‘ How does Jesus look ? |
“ ‘ Teddy asks me to tell him how Jesus looks. I can’t at
all find any way of telling you how very pretty His sweet
loving face is to us all. We do love Him very much; and
by Him we grow good and wise. He is our God. He comes
to teach us all we want to learn, and then we may teach you
by talking into your little hearts. When you are going to be
naughty, please, dear brothers and little Nellie, remember
that that will keep our voice from being heard. We want to
whisper in your ears, and tell you all beautiful thoughts that
we see here. For we see things here that you can only think ;
but we may tell you the thoughts that come, and that teaches
you, and if you are good, you will go on so happily, and so
shall we.’
“ Teddy—‘ What sort of place is the moon ?’
We little spirits don’t know.’”
b The Spiritual News.”—The last number of The
Spiritual JVem contains an account of some marvellous
Spiritual manifestations, obtained through the mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, and authenticated by the publication of the
names and addresses of seventeen witnesses. Fruits asked
for by those present were brought by the spirits in many
cases instantaneously. One lady asked for a melon, and re¬
ceived one which weighed four pounds. Mr. T. Shorter
asked for a cocoa-nut, and received one weighing a pound and
a half. Other phenomena, of a most extraordinary character,
were witnessed.
A Test Medium:.—For a long time the want has been felt
in London of a good “ test ” medium—that is to say, a medium
developed for the special purpose of furnishing proofs of spirit-
identity to strangers, and proving that they are those whom
they profess to be, by giving the enquirer names, places, dates,
and other evidence. Symptoms of this kind of mediumship
have begun to appear' in connexion with Mr. E. Bird, of
98, Lothian-road, North Brixton, S.W. At present he gets
feeble table-motions and writing manifestations, and in
several instances, when comparative strangers to him have
sat with him, the proofs of personal identity given by the
spirits to the enquirers were so overwhelming as to thoroughly
frighten them in those cases where the investigators were
previously ignorant of the facts of Spiritualism. At a large
circle, as is usually the case, inaccuracies and interruptions
mar the communications, and the most reliable messages
through Mr. Bird are usually obtained when he and the en¬
quirer alone sit at the table. In the probable event of his
developing into a good test-medium, we hope he will become
a professional medium, since so many of the public wish for a
means of quickly obtaining unquestionable proof of the identity
of their-spirit friends.
IPoetrs.
THE PRINTER.
He stood there alone at that shadowy hour,
By the swinging lamp dimly burning;
All silent within save the ticking type,
All without, save the night-watch turning:
And heavily echoed the solemn sound,
As slowly he paced o’er the frozen ground.
And dark were the mansions so lately that shone.
With the joy of festivity gleaming;
And hearts that were beating in sympathy then,
Were now living it o’er in their-dreaming.
Yet the printer still worked at his lonely post,
As slowly he gathered his mighty host.
And there lay the merchant all pillowed in down,
And building bright hopes for the morrow:
Nor dreamed he that fate was then weaving a wand
That would bring him to fear and sorrow.
Yet the printer was there in his shadowy room,
And he set in his framework that rich man's doom.
The young wife was sleeping whom lately had bound
The ties that death only can sever;
And dreaming she started, yet woke with a smile,
For she thought they were parted for ever.
But the printer was clicking the types that would tell,
'On the morrow, the truth of that midnight spell.
And there lay the statesman, whose feverish brow.
And restless, the pillow was pressing,
For he felt through the shadowy mists of his dream.
His loftiest hopes now possessing.
Yet the printer worked on ’mid silence and gloom,
And dug for ambition its lowliest tomb.
And slowly that workman went gathering up
His budget of grief and of gladness;
A wreath for the noble, a grave for the low,
For the happy a cup full of sadness;
Strange stories of wonder to ravish the ear,
And dark ones of terror to curdle with fear.
Full strange are the tales which that dark host shall bear
To palace and cot on the morrow;
Oh, welcome, thrice welcome, to many a heart!
To many a bearer of sorrow.
It shall go like the wild and wandering air,
For life and its changes are impressed there.
' Weekly Dispatch, 1845.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—In The Spiritualist of November 15tb I read an
account, by a lady highly esteemed by a very large circle of
friends, of a sSanee at Mr. Guppy’s and Mrs. Guppy’s residence.
I read Miss Houghton’s account with great interest, and hope
to see more narratives of such sSances from the same clear
pen. The phenomena detailed by Miss H. are calculated to
quicken the curiosity of your scientific readers, seeing that
they demonstrate the natural possibility of events which most
scientific writers have declared to be out of the range of pos¬
sibility. Is the scientific mind to be swayed by words or by
facts ? If the masters in science will not come out from their
lecture-rooms and studies to examine and report upon these
alleged Spiritual facts, it is pleasant to lovers of truth to
know that their scholars are gradually coming away to in¬
quire for themselves.
Allow me to give another instance of violation of the “scien¬
tifically impossible,” also occurring at Mr. Guppy’s house, at
a seance, some days prior to the date of Miss Houghton’s. On
the occasion I speak of, the party consisted of Mr. and Mrs.
Guppy, Miss Neyland, Mrs. Morris of Hammersmith, a lady
well known in the botanical world, Mrs. Dixon, Mr. Nicholl,
sculptor, and myself. Mr. Guppy has studied the subject for
some years, under that most favourable condition of his wife
being a highly-gifted medium, and his observations bring him
to the conclusion that complete absence of physical light at a
circle, or siance, as it is called, is a condition for clear and
strong results of the action of spirits in the physical sphere.
Therefore it is that his means for excluding light are particu¬
larly adjusted : and therefore it is that he is particular as to
whom he admits to a seance. Into the seance room so pre¬
pared, but lighted with a gasalier, we went at eight in the
evening. Perhaps I might say the floor is carpeted, and there
was only the ordinary furniture of a parlour besides. On the
loo table; in the centre of the room, were a lute, a banjo, a set
of Turkish bells on a stick or handle, with its hammer, a box
of paints, paper, pencils, and tumbler of water. Before we
sat down, the table moved about freely in our midst, and
when the light was turned off, shot up three feet, maintaining
its level, then gently and evenly descended. Then the lute
and bells were played, sounding here and th6re over our heads,
the table keeping accompaniment, by movements sometimes
rhythmical, sometimes eccentric, emitting raps of every
degree of intensity ; now and then we were playfully struck
with the bell-hammer. With the rocking of the table we
heard the water splashing from the tumbler, and some was
flecked into all our faces. Then our faces and hands were
sprinkled with a fine odoriferous spray quite freely, over and
over again. Mrs'. M. said something was placed in her hand,
then Mrs. D., then I. We found afterwards that an apple had
been thus divided among us ; it had been cut in a most in¬
comprehensible manner. Our conversation had not been
interrupted all this time, all being more or less familiar with
phenomena of the kifld ; but now we heard something placed
heavily upon the table. On getting a light, behold, it was a I
small circular table, which had been standing in the corner
of the room, covered with its antimacassar. With this table
extraordinary pranks were played by the invisibles. Mrs.
Guppy, on a light being struck, lifted the table off the larger
one, and placed it aside, and immediately it seemed to leap
back to us, evidently struggling in the light of the gas to get
to its former position, making use of Mrs. G.’s lap as a step
to climb up. This was finally done by Mrs. G. and Miss N.
placing the tips of their fingers upon it. There was then
another distribution of apples; but what was singular with
this distribution, Miss Neyland, who has a wonderfully proved
faculty of spirit-light, described personally, and gave names
of, the spirits who gave the fruit, which descriptions were
exact of Mrs. M.’s deceased husband, and of my son; her
perception of his placing the fruit in my hand lying in my
lap was synchronous with my feeling it. So also with
Mrs. M.; Miss Neyland announced when and where the
spirit was touching her, Mrs. M. recognising the touch,
“patting and caressing her hand, her shoulder, her back,” she
said, “in an old familiar way.’’
Time getting on, Mr. Guppy said he should like Mrs. M. to
take with her a memento of this her first visit, and asked
Katey—for so he calls the acting spirit of his circle—if she
could not bring a few flowers. We continued talking, and
after a very short time, we heard something fall upon the
table. I said, “ There are flowers,” for I perceived some
strong aromatic odour. On alight being produced, there was
seen standing on the table an old southernwood tree, from two
to three feet in the diameter of its bush, standing there, up¬
right in a pile of about half-a-peck of earth, and, as the light
settled upon" it, it tottered and fell on its side. After we had
admired and exclaimed, and had examined the carpet, and
found not the slightest sprinkle of earth upon it, Mr. G.
asked if it should be cleared away. By the raps, “No!”
On turning off the light again, all sorts of tricks were played
—handfuls of earth were thrown over us, to the great dismay
of the ladies (fortunately the earth was half dry), and the
root having been used as a gigantic powder-puff to Mr. Guppy’s
head and face, to his great amusement; he said, “ Oh, let them
do what they like, they won’t hurt; ” the tree was thrown into
my lap. Still we were not to clear away; and, after restoring
darkness, we heard the root separated, and, at our request,
portions were thrown to Mrs. M. and to me, and which we
brought away for our own gardens, as a memorial of the seance,
at the conclusion of which we resolved to explore the garden
at the back of the house, for Mrs. G. said she thought she
recognised it as belonging there, and we found the spot from
whence it had been wrenched, there still remaining a fragment
of loose root and a small branch, as if to enable us to identify
the spot. To get into the garden, we had to pass through two
closed doors, and there was not a vestige of loose earth to be
found on the newly-formed paths of the garden, nor in the
approaches to the room where the seance had been held.
I ought to say that, after the root had been removed from
the table, and we were proposing to say adieu to the invisible
friends, we heard something again deposited upon the table,
which we found, on striking a light, to be a large plaster cast
of Milton, removed from the chimney-piece. And thus our
sectnce ended.
Whether gentlemen who pique themselves upon being truly
scientific men like such facts as these, I know not. I wish to
say that these that I have here related are facts, and that, to
my personal knowledge, many more can be adduced of a
similar sort. J. Dixon, L.B.C.P.
8, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
Nov. 16, 1870.
Sir,—At a private seance, a few days ago, the party con¬
sisting of five, including the medium, Mr. Herne, the moment
the gas was turned off the voice was heard, sonorous as our
own voices. All recognised it as that of the spirit calling
himself “ Bluff Harry,” at the Monday evening stances, at
Southampton-row, having the same peculiar tone, and his
little speeches being of the same complimentary and flattering
character, intermingled, on the present occasion, with good-
natured allusions to our failings, and, in this particular,
showing least favour to the medium. Some of my unex¬
pressed thoughts were commented upon or answered by the
spirit, and other tests were given. Spontaneous automatic
writing has recently come through my hand, and, on this
occasion, the Spiritual origin of this writing was, I think,
demonstrated. Some of this spontaneous writing had the sig¬
nature of “ Harry,” and this evening, through the voice, it
was correctly stated how often “Harry’’ had so written, as
additional evidence of Spirituality. The voice also com¬
mented on the room in which the writing had come, saying
that it only wanted flowers to make a nice conservatory. It
is my father’s photographic printing room. To me, as well as
to the rest of the circle, “ Harry’’ made his presence the more
unmistakeable by slight blows and taps with the tube, as he
spoke to each, as if to give point to what he said. The tests
he gives spontaneously are sometimes striking. On my asking
whether he saw spirits around me, he said, “ There’s one using
your hand now.” The name of “ Piper ” was actually being
written through my hand at the moment. I asked the name
of the spirit. His answer was, “ What a Scotchman plays,
and an Englishman smokes.”
Upon “ Harry’s ” voice ceasing, strong manifestations of the
table took place. It shot up above our heads, then descended
half way, and there remained for some time, swaying about
in our midst, resisting our downward pressure. Suddenly it
went to the floor, at the same moment that we heard another
voice—that which “ Harry ” has said belongs to the boat¬
swain’s mate of the Captain, the ship that went down off
Cape Finisterre, and about which so much interest has been
felt. This voice was very loud, and alarmed the medium, who
exclaimed, “ I can’t stand, this ! ” but upon our requesting the
spirit to moderate his voice, and only whisper, it became
tolerable. He spoke kindly to us, a few words to each, and
then gave us “ Good night.”
While we talked about the improvement in this voice, we
suddenly were addressed by that of “ John King,” to the great
satisfaction of the medium, who said, “ I am glad you have
come and that he has gone.” Mr. Herne says that when the
“ boatswain’s mate ’’ speaks the voice seems to rise from the
ground in front of him, taking his breath away, while
Harry’s ” voice comes from round his head, and “ John
King’s” from the level of his chest. The voice of “John
King’’began by greeting one of the circle, and alluded to
circumstances and conversations had with him a long time ago
at Mrs. Marshall’s, where “John King,” I am told, once
excited much attention, “John” was quite as personal as
“ Harry ” in his observations, sharper and less complimentary.
He also, in a rougher way, gave some advice to each of us, not
forgetting the medium. “ Harry” had told us that my cousin
Kobert, deceased twelve years, would try to make his voice
audible ; and I now asked “John King” if he could suggest
how I might succeed in taking my cousin’s spirit-portrait pho¬
tographically. “ John” said, “ My dear', I think Robert is too
high, but you might, perhaps, take a rough fellow like me. I
would not mind giving you a sitting if you would put my por¬
trait in the exhibition.” I asked, “ What exhibition ? ” He
said, “ The photographic, to be sure.” “ Do you mean to say
you’ve been there ? ” “ Why not ? I like public life ; I go
everywhere.” Alice Dixon.
112, Albany-street, N.W.
THE MATERIAL SUBSTANCES TEMPORARILY FORMED
BY SPIRITS.
Sir,—I am a Spiritualist, and much interested in your
paper, and especially in the “ Remarkable Spiritual Mani¬
festations ” described in the diary of Mr. Livermore. But I
am so perplexed at a point in the third portion of the extracts,
that I venture to ask an explanation of it.
The passage! s from “Wednesday evening, Nov. 21st, 1861.”
In describing the appearance of his wife’s hand, Mr. Liver¬
more says :—
“ I took each finger separately in my hand, and could dis¬
cern no difference between it and a human hand, except in
Dec. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
127
temperature, the spirit-hand being cold at first and growing
warm. I wore a glove, however, and, could not, perhaps, judge
accurately in all respects.'’
Now, why did Mr. Livermore wear a glove, on an occ asion
when to have been' without one would have been more satis¬
factory and natural ? Further, on Friday evening, Nov. 29th,
1861, he says, “ A spirit-light arose from the floor, I put on
my glove and my brother did the same." Why did they put
on gloves ?
If it will not be too much trouble to give a brief reply to my
question you will greatly oblige
r A Reader of “ The Spiritualist.”
[There are many cases on record of the interposition of some fabric be¬
tween the hands or other objects temporarily formed by spirits, and the
hands of mortals who grasp the said objects. Why this is so, we do not
know, and very frequently, no such fabric is interposed. The Cornhill
Magazine, for August, 1860, then under the editorship of Thackeray, contains
an article written by Mr. Robert Bell, who says of one manifestation he
witnessed:—“ What seemed to be a large hand came under the table cover,
and with the fingers clustered to a point, raised it betweenme and the table.
I seized it, felt it very sensibly, but it went out like air in my grasp.” Mr.
W. M. Wilkinson, solicitor, of Lincoln’s Inn Fields, once published a letter
from a friend qf his which among other things stated—“ With several of us
a sheet of paper was spread over the face, and through it we distinctly felt
the pressure of a hand.” There is also an authenticated case on record, of
a spirit who appeared bodily to a friend, and asked him to cover his hand
with a handkerchief before he shook hands, otherwise he (the mortal)
would be injured by the contact. We are not quite sure where this is pub¬
lished, but possibly it is in “ The Seeress of Prevorst -/’.the incident occurred
on the continent. When'spirit hands are formed at dark circles, they
rarely touch the flesh of the sitters; it is usually part protected by the dress
which they grasp, and the head where it is covered with hair. Mr. T.
Shorter, who is well up in the history of Spiritualism, can probably give you
more such examples, if you write to him. Mr. Livermore was 'probably
told to use gloves you had better write and ask him. You might also
inquire of the intelligent spirits who communicate at Mr. Morse’s stances as
to the reason why these things are so, and then let us know the result.—Ed.]
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—In the last issue of your valuable paper you were good
enough to insert a paragraph announcing the formation of the
above Association, for which the Committee have to thank
you. And to meet the contingency of any of your numerous
readers desiring fuller particulars, we request the favour of
your kindly giving publicity to the following explanation of
our purposes, &c.:—
Our chief objects are to prosecute and encourage gene¬
ral inquiry into the nature of Spiritualism ; for which purpose
we hold weekly seances (on Thursday), at which we hope to
demonstrate among ourselves the genuineness of the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism. By careful observation and recording
the results of our seances, as well as by perusing Spiritualistic
literature, it is anticipated to comprehend the philosophy
involved in the phenomena.
For the purpose of offering facilities to honest enquirers
desirous of witnessing our mode of working prior to becoming
members of the Association, we invite a limited number of
such individuals as visitors to our stances. But in consequence
of the increasing number of members, and our accommodation
being limited, the Committee found it absolutely necessary,
for the general comfort, to restrict the number of visitors
admissible to a stance to three. Intending visitors are respect¬
fully requested to give a week’s notice of their wish, as in the
case of many requisitions coming to hand, their visits have to
be arranged for in the priority of applications,
A proposition to form an agency in connection with the
Association, for the sale of Spiritual publications and kindred
works, &c., is about to be considered. Efforts will be made,
from time to time, to form branch circles in our vicinity,
particulars of which, it is suggested, shall be recorded in our
books, so as to enable investigators and enquirers to obtain
information on the subject without any unnecessary trouble.
With reference to the results of our sittings, I may observe
that we have been so far successful as to obtain powerful
movements of the table, with intelligent responses. Several of
our members have been influenced to discern spirit friends,
and to write, which have been tested with satisfactory results,
although, at the same time, we would mention that, in some
instances, incongruities have arisen, but possibly from our not
understanding the proper course to pursue. The results, up to
the present time, taken as a whole, have, however, been suffi¬
ciently satisfactory as to incite us to closer application to our
purpose of inquiry.
In conclusion, permit me to add, that we shall be glad to
receive the co-operation of any earnest souls who sympathise
with our work ; and any communications addressed to us will
receive every reasonable attention.
Thomas Blyton, Secretary, &c.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
1st November, 1870.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
Continued from page 123.
ments that have perished, the city that is not, the forms that
have no longer a material existence, the events that have long
since transpired—it also perceives the untried future. The
prophetic eye of the seer beholds objects that have not yet
come before the eye of mortality, scenes that have not yet
been enacted, even beings that have no physical existence, the
things, the beings and events that shall be. What kind of
sight is this? We all may remember that questions similar
to these were put by the learned St. Augustine to his pupil
ages ago—ages in time, but there is no time in truth, and the
perception of truth to the learned saint induced him to ques¬
tion one who could not realise the existence or power of a
spirit apart from matter. “ With what eyes did he perceive
in dreaming ? With what ears did he take cognizance of in¬
telligence. With what organs did he touch ? ” If this be the
case in dreaming, how much more in the open clear lucidity
of the spirit medium, who, day by day, for the last twenty-two
years, has heaped up, one after the other, evidences that
thousands, aye, millions, of such phenomena occur.
SPIRITUALISM AND CHEMISTRY.
There is a science called chemistry, one of the grandest, one
of the most glorious forms of definition by which we learn to
comprehend the working of the “I AM.” Through chemistry
it is that we understand how He laid down the ancient rocks,
how He aggregated the nebulous matter of vast and unknown
realms of void into form and order, and fashioned worlds. It
is by the science of chemistry that the processes of creation
throughout the universe may be explained. But we invite
your attention to one special portion of chemistry. Take, for,
instance, a small, almost invisible point of matter, a nucleated
cell. Examine it with your glass, for it is so fine, so far
removed into microscopic littleness from the ordinary monads
of matter, that it is necessary you should observe it with your
glass. As you gaze upon it, you perceive that it is apparently
structureless. Give it the conditions of life, surround it with
those living tissues by which it can chemically gather the
materials to build up life, and you will find presently that this
little cell expands, and bursts, and elaborates other cells like
unto itself. Each cell repeats the story of the parent cell,
until a mass of tissue is formed that takes the shape of the
rudiment of a brain, then of a spine ; then elaborating itself
through the same process of chemical growth and assimilation,
we have at last the'living creature, with all its marvellous
variety of organs, its wonderful structure, its various forces and
functions. We can scarcely number up the variety of wonder¬
ful forms of tissue which the living creature exhibits. But we
return to the period when it was but a nucleated cell, and all
this marvellous process of growth and life has been the work
of chemistry, such a chemistry that the single grain of wheat
which we convert into bread, when it enters into the lips,
will pass throughout the whole frame, and be secreted in
every portion of the organism, until that grain of wheat shall
be divided into blood, and bone, and tissue, and serum, and
brain matter; and in the lustre of the eye and the ruby of the
lip, and the rose of the cheek, shall be found a portion of
that grain of wheat. It is but a process of chemistry. Pass
on a little further, and now the mighty man, the master of the
destiny of millions, the being that shakes the world, that
creates, and invents, afad re-creates the forms that we gaze
upon—the mighty, the wonderful, the masterful—shall lie at
our feet a clod of dust. It is but a process of chemistry. Pass
on a few years more, and that clod of clay shall have dis¬
appeared ; there shall not be a handful of dust, there shall not
be a single grain of matter left; it shall be nothing, its place
shall know it no more, and none of the elements shall give up
even a single grain as large as the nucleated cell from which
the whole mystery of its existence sprang. It is but a process
of chemistry, and so marvellous is this kind of chemistry, that
it has been truly called Divine, and those who have contem¬
plated it with reverent minds, those who have regarded it as
a performance far far beyond the power of man to imitate,
have bent low the knee, and declared that the mystery of life
and creation belonged alone to God. Is it so ? Is not God our
Father ? And has He hidden from His children aught of his
work, of his power, of his majesty; has he not revealed to the
aspiring mind of the creature all that He has done? The
works of his hands are an open page, a grand and everlasting
Bible upon which the eye of the creature needs but to gaze to
comprehend all the works of the Creator ; and where we fail,
the spirit takes up the tale, and finishes it for us, for we will
show you a page of Spiritual chemistry. There are some of us
that even in the midst of the gloom, not necessarily the thick
darkness, not necessarily with the screen that may favour impos¬
ture or deception, but even in the gloom where every motion can
be detected, where every action can be scrutinised; there are
some of us that have seen in the midst, of the aerial nothing¬
ness of the atmosphere at first the dim outline of a mass of
matter : now it advances, crystallizes, forms, takes shape,
flutters towards us, and becomes a human hand ! It is laid in
ours, it manifests all the attributes of life, it is warm and soft,
it returns the tender pressure of affection. Some of us there
are that have examined its tissues, and found them correspond
so marvellously with all the appearance of human life, that we
have wondered whether it was possible that we were dream¬
ing, or whether it could be a reality, when lo ! as we
clasp it, it becomes nothing, melts in our grasp, and it is
gone ! What kind of chemistry is this ? We do not see the
nucleated, the living tissue that builds it up ; we do not count
the processes of growth; we do not number up the years, months,
days, hours it has taken to form; it is but the work of a single
moment. We do not watch the slow process of decay ; we do
not number up the years that it may take to distintegrate the
atoms, but it is gone in a single moment. What kind
of chemistry is this ? * O scientists, ye that i undertake to
decompose the sunbeams, and to examine even by the power
of your mind the composition of the distant planets, ye that
have gathered up the rays of light passing through millions
and billions of miles, and harnessed it to your table, and made
it speak, and give up the mystery of its composition, are ye
baffled by the tricks and legerdemain of a low, undeveloped
spirit ? The soul of a clown passing into the beyond performs
a feat of chemistry that baffles all your science to discover.
SPIRITUALISM AND ACOUSTICS.
We can speak of but one more phase. There is a science
called acoustics, the science of sound. Once again we do not
pretend to use scientific phrase, or to define this form of science
by any of the ordinary expressions which, no doubt, would be
far more regarded than their meaning amongst some of you.
For the production of sound it seems to be absolutely neces¬
sary that there shall be two bodies that shall come into
collision. They may be in any of the three conditions of
matter—gaseous, solid, or liquid, we grant—but there must be
two ; one or both must be in motion, and that motion must
produce a collision, and the vibration in the atmosphere im¬
pinging on the ear is that which we call “sound.” Now the
Spiritualists will tell you that there are certain sounds pro¬
duced, and but one object, one material body, which gives
account of their production—the table,- the chair, the wall, or
any sounding-board you please to find. But where is the other
moving body ? Where is the other form of matter that pro¬
duces the spirit raps ? Yet not all the cry, not all the spirit of
reprobation that has exhibited itself in the cry of “ humbug ”
or “ imposture ” has sufficed to silence these obstinate rappers :
the sounds rap on, and till you can explain them close the
page of acoustics. The science of acoustics is imperfect; there
is a sound in your midst, a tone in your world, a voice pro¬
claiming in the city streets the song of'immortality which has
never yet been explained by any of the forms of physical
science.
SUMMARY.
And now for our resumt. You ask for something new; you
ask what relation Spiritualism bears to science. It opens be¬
fore you a new page in physiology, a new page in mechanics,
a new page in optics, a new page in chemistry, and a new
page in acoustics. There are many others. We are only
embarrassed with the multitude of our riches, and not with the
answer to the demand, “ Give us something new,” or to the
question, “ What relation does Spiritualism bear to science ? ”
The Spiritual is the only true exponent of science, for the
Spiritual alone can lead you into the realm of causation. Until
you realise Spiritual science you walk through a panorama of
which the first page is concealed and the last is unknown to
you. When you stand in this glorious temple of Spiritual
science you realise the cause of causes. When we speak of
science as explaining the various laws and principles that
underlie creation, we do not speak of that which scientists
know ; there are many forms and methods and modes in the
universe not known to man : they are still sciences, and these
forms of science which they do not know they should not
repudiate because they do not understand. If, indeed, there
be law for all creation—if, indeed, the Architect of the Uni¬
verse be adequate to the production of tall the grand and
glorious phenomena of the universe, then must law, immutable
and eternal law, prevail in spirit as in matter, and then must
the science of spirit be the only solution to the problem of
material being. We do not undertake to show you how these
phenomena are wrought; it is enough to point to the fact that
they exist, and that they all and each involve the grandest and
the most stupendous scientific problems, problems which will
remain and point the finger of scorn against all the assump¬
tions of those who by science pretend to teach the people
knowledge until they can include in that realm of knowledge
a definition of Spiritual science.
At the close of the foregoing address Mrs. Hardinge sat
down amid loud applause.
Before the proceedings closed, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, the
president, said that he had hoped to have seen Professor
Tyndall at the meeting that evening ; he had been invited to
come with Mr. Crookes, Mr. Huggins, and other members of
the Royal Society. He (Mr. Coleman) had recently met
Professor Tyndall under accidental circumstances, a conversa¬
tion on the subject of Spiritualism took place, and when he
described some of the manifestations he had seen, Professor
Tyndall said that he would give a thousand guineas could he
see the same. Some men of science who would have been
present were absent in consequence of the starting of the
Eclipse expedition on that day. He, however, thought it
would not be very long before Spiritual phenomena came
under the examination of the Royal Society.
Spiritualism is spreading with much rapidity in Pem¬
brokeshire, South Wales.
Mrs. Emma Hardinue, of 6, Vassal-terrace, Kensington,
is at home from two till five on Thursdays to receive visitors.
There is no truth in the rumour that the Dialectical
Society will not print its report on Spiritualism. The book
will probably be out in about a month.
Next Monday evening another of the Harley-street
meetings will be held, and Mrs. Hardinge will occupy the
platform. There will afterwards be an adjournment for about
three weeks. We have heard that Mr. Benjamin Coleman
has generously been carrying on these excellent meetings
irrespective of financial considerations; it is therefore to be
hoped that those who attend will support him well with sub¬
scriptions to clear the rest of the expenses throughout the
winter. His address is 1, Bernard Villas, Upper Norwood, S.E.
The Total Eclipse of the Sun.—On the 21st of last
month, Lord Lindsay left the Thames in the steamship
London, for Cadiz, taking with him a large reflecting teles¬
cope, and other apparatus, to photograph the total eclipse of
the sun, which will be visible there this day week (Dec. 22nd).
Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Mr. William Huggins, F.R.S.,
and Professor Tyndall, were among the astronomers who left
Portsmouth in H.M.S. Urgent last Tuesday, on their way to
Oran, in Africa, where they will observe the eclipse with
polariscopic apparatus. Mr. W. H. Harrison was appointed
to go out with this expedition, and to aid in the astronomical
work required to be done at Gibralter ; at the last moment he
was unable to go, and Mr. John Spiller, F.C.S., of Woolwich
Arsenal, Secretary to the Photographic Society of London, was
appointed in his place. Lord Lindsay is not connected
with the Government expedition; he left England in the
London as a private observer, and as the ship does not
ordinarily stop at Cadiz, he had to pay the owners to put in there
to land him and his apparatus. Mr. C. F. Varley, who has been
for some time in the Mediterranean, did not stop there to see
the total phase of the eclipse, and he yesterday arrived
in London. The eclipse will be visible, but not total, in
England.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—The first general meeting
of the members of the Dalston Association of Enquirers into
Spiritualism was held on Thursday, 8th inst., at the usual
place of meeting, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E., Captain
James Watts was re-elected President; Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Vice-President; Mr. G. R. Tapp, Recorder; and Mr. Thomas
Blyton, Secretary and Treasurer. A committee of five, con¬
sisting of Mr. John Jackson, Mr. E. Newton, Mr. W. Pawley,
Mr. J. Sparey, and Mrs. M. A. Sparey, was appointed to
manage the affairs of the Association. The report states that
“the receipts amount to £3 10s. Id., as against an expendi¬
ture of £3 4s. 3d., leaving a credit balance of 5s. lOd. to be
carried forward to the ensuing term. Eleven weekly seances
have been held, with an average attendance of fourteen
members. Mr. James J. Morse, the celebrated trance-medium,
has twice rendered his services, and thus given considerable
aid in explaining the subject of Spiritualism. The principal
features of the seances have been the demonstration of
genuine table movements, accompanied by intelligent re¬
sponses claiming a Spiritual origin; the development of
media for trance-speaking, writing, impression, and discerning
of Spiritual beings.” A vote of thanks was proposed,
seconded, and carried unanimously, to Captain James
Watts, for presiding on the occasion; after which the
meeting was made ordinary, and the usual circle formed.
Mrs. M. Richmond discerned ■ a spirit acting upon Mr.
Jackson, who was entranced, and a few words spoken
through him. Mrs. Richmond described the spirit mi¬
nutely, and the spirit was thus recognised by Captain
Watts and Mr. Jackson as that of a Mr. Willsden. The
same lady discerned a spirit (female) near another member
of the circle, but the gentleman failed to recognise her, as the
spirit asserted she had not been observed by him when in
earth-life, although the same description has been previously
given to him from other sources. The Association is anxious
to form a library, for the use of enquirers in its vicinity,
and the members desire to receive the aid of any who sym¬
pathise with their purposes, by the voluntary contribution of
books on Spiritualism or kindred subjects.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J—Your letter crowded out this month.
T., 14, Oornhill—The manuscript for The Spiritualist, which you
sent in error a fortnight ago to 15, Southampton-row, Holborn,
has not yet been received by us.
The correspondent who proffered another version of the authenti¬
cated Cornish ghost story once printed in these pages is informed
that we have not space for it. Should there be any essential
difference in the two narratives, the points at issue might be
stated in a very brief letter, not more than a quarter of a column
long. The said correspondent should have enclosed his address
with his letter.
We do not require and shall not have room to print long reports of
common-place manifestations which may be sent us by cor¬
respondents. All letters about seances should describe the more
important manifestations only, an,d can only be published when
the narrative is authenticated by the printing of the names and
addresses of several of the witnesses, including the writer. None
of the manifestations which have been recorded in this journal
rest upon an anonymons foundation.
128
THE SPIRITUALIST
Dec. 15, 1870.
FACTS FOB, NOtf-SHBITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SErRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. P. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. 0. P. Yarley,
C.E., P.R.G.S., M.R.I.:—
“ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy : for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me?
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
. French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:--
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, R.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Grosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;;
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
•D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfield, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, P.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor j Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. Thau book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movernents of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed , was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal of
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870:—
“ 20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
; July ISth, 1870.
“Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th hast., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points, to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
Si crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
“ I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men^of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the good
friends I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours,
William Crookes.”
A work entitled The Boole of Nature, by 0. O.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No; for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words :—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
’ first, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in. the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury,to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the vlrdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
- “ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the' stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“ The result of these Challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. DAMIANI.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol’ v,ill always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepwoi ih Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics,, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FOBM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing, for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of •
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, d,amp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, , but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature.. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means. “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every-
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question Should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle.
THE PBOGBESSIVE LIBBARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Leading-Room supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World: a Drawing-
Room for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Rooms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s.per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Planchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“Home for Spiritualism” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise.' Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C
The spiritual magazine, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C.
The only Cheap Weekly Horticultural Journal.
2d. Weekly; and in Monthly Parts, lOd.
THE GARDENER’S MAGAZINE for
Amateur Cultivators, Collectors, and Exhibitors
of Plants, Flowers and Fruits; for Gentlemen’s Gar¬
deners, Florists, Nurserymen, and Seedsmen; for Na¬
turalists, Botanists, Bee-keepers, and Lovers of the
Country. Conducted by Shirley’ Hibberd, Esq.,
F.R.H.S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
And by Order of all Booksellers and Newsagents in
Town and Country.
Lectures on the “religion of
LIFE.” By Edward N. Dennys. Author of
“Alpha." Complete in Nine Parts; Three Lectures in
each Part. These Lectures are not “Religious ” in the
TheologicaT sense, but in the practical sense taught in
the Philosophy, and exemplified in the life of the Man
Jesus Christ. Contents of Part IV.: Self-Trust.—What
is Christianity ?—Thy Kingdom Come. Price 4d., in paper
covers. Also, by same Author, “ Two Lectures to Eng¬
land’s Working Population; oniheir Oppressors’Oppres¬
sions, and How to Avoid them.” These Lectures are a
picture of present society. Earnest workers for human
redemption should read and circulate them largely.
Price 4d; or'in quantities for distribution, at cost price.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury,
W.C.
Heaven opened; or, messages
for the BEREAVED from our LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Through the mediumship of F. J. T. With
observations by Mrs. De Morgan. In neat cloth, Is. In
enamel wrapper, 6d. London: J. Burns, 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE SPIRITUAL NEWS. —The last
number of The Spiritual News contains the Open¬
ing Address to its Readers.—Extraordinary Spiritual
Manifestations through Mrs. Guppy’s Mediumship; the
facts attested by seventeen witnesses. The Dalston
Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism.—The Dis¬
cussion on Mr. Wallace’s paper on Miracles at the Bee¬
thoven Rooms.—Valentine Greatrakes, the Healing
Medium.—Mrs. Hardinge’s Reception—Life in the Spirit
World.—St. John’s Association of Spiritualists.—The
Control of Mediums. — The Future of Murderers.—
Jocular Spirits.—Matter and Spirit—Theological Ques¬
tions answered by a Spirit.—Spiritual Manifestations.—
The American Year-Book of Spiritualism. Price One
Penny. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
NEW SPIRITUALIST PERIODICAL.
16 Pages, crown 4tb, price 2d.
fJIHE “CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST.”
“ Built upon the foundation of the Apostles and Pro¬
phets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief corner-stone—
that in all things He might have the pre-eminence.”—St.
Paul.
Editor and Proprietor, Rev. F. R. Young, Rose Cottage,
Swindon, Wiltshire; to whom all contributions of Arti¬
cles, Books, &c., for Review, and Advertisements, must
be sent, not later than the 15th of each month. On Jan¬
uary 1, 1871, the first number of the above Monthly
Periodical will be issued. It will aim to show that Spirit¬
ualism and Christianity, rightly interpreted, are mutual
friends; while apart from communications in the “Open
Council,” and for the opinions in which the Editor will
not hold himself responsible, no line will be permitted to
appear that calls in question the supreme authority of
Christ in all matters of faith and duty. No anonymous
contributions will, under any circumstances whatever, be
permitted to appear. Contributors must append their
names and addresses for publication.
London: William Freeman, Publisher, 102, Fleet-
street, E.C., and all Booksellers in Town and Country.
N.B.—The Trade supplied on Thursday, the 22nd inst.,
and similarly each month.
HUMAN NATURE: A Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular An¬
thropology. The philosophical and scientific character
of this magazine, and the marked originality of thought
displayed by its chief contributors have given it a stand¬
ing throughout the world. It is eminently unsectarian,
and free from creedal bias; its object being the dis¬
covery of Truth. Price 6d. monthly, or 7s. per annum,
post, free. London: J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15,
Southampton-row, Bloomsjmry-square, Holborn, W.C. (j{J
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Trlibner and Co., 60, Paternoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Hey wood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
MADAME DE SIEVERS (refugee from
Paris) the Celebrated Italian Composer, and
talented performer, wishes to give lessons in SINGING,
or on the PIANOFORTE or ORGAN. A Class for Part-
singingmeets at her Rooms, 38, Somerset-street, Orchard-
street, W., once a week. Terms: One Guinea the Month.
SPIRITUAL SEANCES are held every
Friday evening, at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C., at eight o’clock. Mr. J. J. Morse, Medium. Ad¬
mission One Shilling.
Aaron franklin, preserver of
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847.
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
MAGAZINES for SALE, besides several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND CO., 335, STRAND, W.C.
Where also may be obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, and the Spiritualist on day of
Publication, Wholesale and Retail.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF SPIRI¬
TUALISTS will in future meet at 98, Lothian-
road. North BrixtonV The next Meeting of the Society
will take place on Thursday, December 22nd, at half-past
Seven o’Clock.
A Highly Respectable YOUTH would like
to ATTEND a PATIENT in Town or Country';
to live ip the House, -and to Mesmerise. He is son of
the great mesmerist and clairvoyant, A. G. Squires.
Address A. G. Squires, Mesmeric Infirmary, 34, Wey-
mouth-street, Portland-place, London.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of a bed-room and sitting-room. An
enquirer into Spiritualism preferred as a tenant. Terms
10s. per week, including lighting and attendance. Apply
to T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
0. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be¬
ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that the facts of Spiritualism are true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
Society by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to .place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first,
and should be ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
the possession of the early friends of the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Coyers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. W. Allen, sAve Maria-lane, E.O.; or J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
©aments.
The Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—Mesmerism
—The Production of Spiritual Manifestations—A
Review of the Progress of Spiritualism 121
Review :—The Earthward Pilgrimage  122
The Zouave Jacob    12&
Spiritualism in Kilburn   ... 123
Spiritualism and Science.;—Science, Religion, and
Spiritualism—Spiritualism and Physiology—Spiri¬
tualism and Mechanics—Spiritualism and Optics—
Spiritualism and Chemistry—Spiritualism and
Acoustics—Summary ...    ... ...    124,
Leader :—Speculations about Spirit Names  125-
Child-Life in the Spirit World  125-
Poetry:—The Printer ...;  ... ...  126
Correspondence !—Spiritual Manifestations—The
Material Substances Temporarily Formed by
Spirits—The Dalston Association of Enquirers
into Spiritualism  126:
PARAGRAPHS:—The Meetings at the Cavendish
Rooms, 122; The Spiritual News, 126; A Test
Medium, 126; The Total Eclipse of the Sun, 127;
Spiritualism in Dalston, 157.
Answers to Correspondents     ... 127
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and,
St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E.,
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
