Registered as a Newspaper.]
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : <J, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 221.—(Vol. IX.—No. 16.) LONDON : FRIDA-Yj NOVEMBER. 17j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
*Le Comte De Bullet's Experiments. By the Editor 181
Spiritualism in India .:. ... ... ...  181
Dr. Monck... ... ... ... ...   ... ... .;. 182
On the Tise of Fluorescent Bays and the Light from
v Vacuum Tubes at Materialisation Seances. By Le
Comte De Bullet ... ..,   ... ...   183
Spiritualists’ Defence Fund:—Special Appeal  184
Dr. Forbes 'Winslow on Lunatic.Spiritualists  184
Spiritualism at Edinburgh University:—Professor Calder-
wood on “ Science and Spiritualism ”—Professor
Fraser on Philosophical Systems ... '  ...185
The Slade Prosecution... ... ...•   186
The Queen’s Attention Invited to Spiritual Phenomena ... 186
Mr. Blackburn's Seances ' ...   ... ..." ... 187
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Council—The Legal Besponsibilities Connected with
Mediumship—The Prosecution of Dr. Monek 187
■Original Besearches in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas,
F.G.S.:— H armonics — Optics—Music —The Organ—
Optics—The Eye—Colour and Optics—Electricity—
Heat—Sound—The Brain—Personal—Heat—Conclud¬
ing Bemarks    ...  188
Aid for Mrs. Cogman ... ...  190
Dr. Slade at a Test Seance. ■ By C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci. 191
Correspondence:—A Seance with Dr. Slade—The Late
Mr. Cogman—Professional Mediums—The East End
Spiritual Meetings ...    ...      192
The Price of Coals     ...192
Answers to Correspondents   ...  192
Paragraphs: —Spiritualist Discussion Meetings, 182;
Maskeylyne and-Cooke, 186; Mr. J. J. Morse in the
Provinces, 186; Marriage, 191; Reception at Mrs.
Gregory’s ...      191
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Oflobe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
'Of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.B.S. ; Mr. William
Urookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Bight Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leucktenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.;! Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale OwenTformerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, E.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent! (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
•dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) : the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M- Dunphy,
TSarrister-at-Law; 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JolmE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W.‘ Stock, B.A. (Oxen); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Eabyan Dawe ; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
■the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ” ; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. -H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
imry: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. E. Showers; Mr. J. N. x.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles iUnited States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United.Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States,'4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
.Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.   
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LOHGHBOUOtrGH-ROAD, NORTH BlXTON,
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.'
For information as to rules of membership, &c , &c , apply
to—
H. E. FRANCIS, Hon. Sec.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moial,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
T>e obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is.ljd.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn Street.)
Agenda for November, 1876.
Wednesday, 1st.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell Street, at
6.30 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Friday, 3rd.—Seance Committee at 6 p m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 6th.—Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m. Admis¬
sion free to members and friends.
Friday, 10th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 14tft.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting at 6 30 p.m.
Wednesday, loth.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, Mr. Williams,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, VUh.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.80
p.m.
Monday, ‘10th.—House and Offices Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Soiree Committee at 6.30 p.m.
- „ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Thursday, 13rd.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, Mr. W. Eglinton,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, Uth.—Library Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.S0
p.m.
Thursday, 30th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance. Mr. W. Eglinton,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must he
reccmmended by a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. As there is a great demand for tickets, and the numbers
are strictly limited, it is necessary to apply some time in
advance.
PRIZE ESSAYS OP THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OP SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £2©; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should he open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and E.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publica'ion, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. Hd., post free.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 1th, 8th, and 9th of Fehuary, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received :—
1. The Best Tests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World ?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means cf Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religions Influence.
AH papers to bo sent to the Secretary, 38. Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain ihe property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37.
0 PUBLISHERS’ ASSISTANTS.—Wanted,
An intelligent ASSISTANT, aged about 15, experienced
in publishing work, and quick at accounts. Apply, stating
terms, and in own handwriting, to W. H. Harrison, 38, Groat
Russell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
SPECIAL APPEAL.
Dr. Slade, a strauger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a-criminal is meted out to him. This
highly gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “ hard labour,” and will, tir January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals. Unless wa
adopt some effectual meahs, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity!
■The affair is not individual, hut relates to aH. The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before as. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts'occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle ?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to he right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support so will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability for action. -
Donations wiU he thankfully received by the joint treasurers.
The Executive Committee.
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-
square.
rJ. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Honorary Treasurers, j q^Wyls, M.D., 12, Great Cum-
v. berland-place, W.
SUBSCRIPTIONS.
£ s. d.
Miss Douglas      25 0 0
Mr. G. C. Joad       25 0 0
„ Alexander Calder  10 10 0
„ Charles Blackburn  10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon   10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith       10 10 0
Miss H      10 0 0
Sir O. Isham, BarG      10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod      10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel    10 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze   7 0 0
Prince Emile von Wittgenstein    6 0 0
Mr. W. Tebb   5 5 0
„ J. Enmore Jones       5 0 0
,, C. C. Massey    5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley....'.      5 0 0
S. T. Speer, M.D.        5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman   6 0 0
Dr. George Wyld   5 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood  5 0 0
„ T. E. Partridge    5 0 0
„ P. B. J  5 0 0
„ A. Joy      H 3 0 0
„ H. Withall      2 2 0
Captain James     2 2 0
Mr. J. B. Stones  2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon      2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe   2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Craustoun   2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Stones   110
Mr. J. Mould     lio
Dr. K. Cook   110
K. G i    110
J.R. W   110
Mrs. Maltby  1 1 0
Major Menars    1 1 o
„ W. P. Adshead   110
Mr. J. O. Ward   110
„ E. D. Rogers   110
„ Morell Theobald   110
William Theobald   110
„ R. M. Theobald, M.A   110
„ H. N ;  110
„ J. Andrfe    110
„ James Brown   110
The Misses Withall   110
Mr. Tucker   10 0
Mrs. S. Parker    10 0
Smaller sums    2 8 0
BIRKBECK BANK—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Noy. 17, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.  
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sqnare, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitehman, WiUlam, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool. ■„ _
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsxmth-bmld-
ings, E.C.  
Massey, C. C., Barrlster-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
llamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward '1'., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, Ll.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, 1, Cornwall Residences, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, X. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S:W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T,, Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T.,3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs.. 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AY. D., 20, Tredegar-road. Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.AV.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa, S.E,
Etrawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood. ,
Stock, St. George AY., M. A,, St. Paul's College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, MorCIT, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-parkJBlackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. VY.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Oavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. Johu’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
AYithall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
■ London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg^ Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Aray, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan,New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. AVittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.'
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq ,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clintou-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson,Esq.,M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Yernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Atlienee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80,Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W. - i •
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honors, Paris.
W. S. Godbe,.Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Uuion Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot,
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. -Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876. .
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays..
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, hut Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND-
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free-
for 6d.
Good chambers
APARTMENTS to LET.
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
or FURNISHEU
Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry ^
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6J
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to:
Rail and Omnibus. C.P., 102, Clarendon-road, Netting hill, W.
TAKEN AWAY BY MISTAKE from the
Ladies’ Cloak Room, at 38, Great Russell-street, on
Wednesday Evening, October 4th, a DOUBLE-GLASS SMEL¬
LING-BOTTLE, with Gilt Stoppers, much valued by the
Owner. If found, it is requested that the same may he left in
charge of the Secretary, at the Reading Room, 38, Great
Russell-street
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14 th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-honse-yard, Patemoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Birmey.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALIS St EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
AHMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, J franc. Published by the Socidt&
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable-
to M. Leymarie.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newt paper
branch office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the-
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects’; editorial department;
spirit-massage department; contributions by the mast talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
% laj# ^ isF % aitb of jljropttraBsmt.
V OLUJVIE KlJME. Dumber iSlXTEEJ^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17th, 1876.
LE COMTE DE BULLET’S EXPERIMENTS.
BT THE EDITOR.
In another column will be found a record of some experi¬
ments tried in Paris by Count Bullet, setting forth the value
of fluorescent rays, and of the electrical discharge in a
nitrogen vacuum, in aid of the evolution of materialisation
manifestations. The fluorescent rays used by him might be
obtained in a cheaper and simpler manner by fixing a plate
of uranium glass in the door, or in one of the walls, or in
the roof of the room, and in projecting upon it from the
outside some blue or violet light from a common bull’s-eye
lantern, with a sheet of glass of the requisite colour placed
in front of the lens. The source of light might be a
paraffin lamp for such feeble resultant illumination as Count
Bullet requires, but the oxy-hydrogen light would give him
rays in greater quantity, although, as compared with the
electric light, the actinic portion of the spectrum thrown by it
is feeble. The wave length, consequently the colour of the
fluorescent rays, will vary with the colour of the glass screen
employed, and the interposed glass stratum which would give
the nearest approach to the light already obtained by Count
Bullet, in Paris, would be a sheet of glass coloured violet by
oxide of manganese. This glass is rare in the commercial
world ; he will best succeed in obtaining it by applying to
the manufacturers of stained glass for the rich purples of
the windows of cathedrals. Common blue cobalt glass
when placed in the front of the lens will also produce rich
fluorescent effects if the rays afterwards fall upon uranium
glass, but the said effects will not so closely resemble those
produced by Count Bullet’s Geissler’s vacuum tubes de¬
scribed in another column. In my early days of experi¬
mental research in Spiritualism I tried many experiments,
some of which were recorded in these pages at the
time, in the endeavour to abolish dark seances by
filling the room with those rays which, considered
from a physical point of view, were least removed from the
condition of absolute darkness. The results, if any, were
slight in the extreme, and were the reverse of those towards
which the few experiments of Count Bullet point. The
general tendency of the experiments was to show that the
red and yellow rays of the spectrum gave the best results,
and that such rays as would be emitted by an electrical
discharge in a nitrogen vacuum produced the worst. The
light given by fluorescent substances having less chemical
power would produce effects more in accordance with my
results.
Since those days I have discovered that psychical con¬
ditions have far more influence over the results at all seances
than almost anything of a physical nature. If the medium
is thoroughly happy and comfortable; if he is confident that
he is among friends who will bear with him through a pro¬
portion of suspicious conditions; who will sit patiently
waiting for that residuum of phenomena which they can
then separate from the doubtful majority, as beyond the
power of mortal man to produce, then are the mani¬
festations obtained in the greatest perfection. In
the presence of those with whom the medium feels
happy, manifestations go on in broad daylight which
ordinarily take place only in darkness. The late Mr. Guppy
frequently told me that when he was alone with Mrs. Guppy
in daylight, flowers and other objects would fall around
them, or become suddenly visible on the table before them ;
and I have occasionally seen such things. There is scarcely
a manifestation of any kind which I have not on rare occa¬
sions seen in broad daylight, and could not have seen with¬
out possessing the friendship of the mediums, or without
sacrificing that large amount of time which must be given
to efficiently and incessantly follow up this subject. Count
Bullet is a good friend to mediums, consequently, in a fugi¬
tive and evanescent kind of way, he, in their presence, occa-
| sionally witnesses phenomena which rough and coarse in-
| vestigators would give their ears to behold, and do not
| believe to occur. At the same time, this surrounding of
! mediums with easy conditions may be carried too far,
j because if neither the medium nor the spirits have any
| incentive to develope better manifestations, the same phe¬
nomena will occur day after day with no improvement.
Hence, all friends and protectors of mediums should make
such support as they give them dependent to some extent
| upon the results ; and if no development takes place while
the sensitives are surrounded by kindly conditions, the
| spirits and the mediums should be told that such idle
stagnation is not the result for which the seances are held,
and that if they do not exercise their mental or moral
i powers to further develope the manifestations, the seances
\ will be broken up, and no further observations made.
SPIRITUALISM IN INDIA.
The Pioneer, a first class daily newspaper, printed at
| Allahabad, contains in its issue of the 17th of October, an
! article on Spiritualism, and the following quotation exhi¬
bits the stand-point taken by the journal in question :—
u The Spiritualists win converts to an extent which the
outside world does not fully realise, but they advance no
step further towards establishing any articles of their faith,
| even the simplest, on a sure foundation. People, on the
I other hand, who hate the sound of the word Spiritualism
and all belonging to it, stick fast just as hopelessly. They
go on abusing the objects of their dislike in the same old
way, satisfied themselves with the weakest explanations of
| occurrences, so long as these involve the accusation of im¬
posture against the medium. ‘ Trash, nonsense, done by
! jugglery! ’ is still held by the anti-spiritual partisans as a
sufficient thing to say of Spiritualism generally, even in
| these days when cultivated Englishmen by the hundred,
| commonplace people all over the world by tens of thousands,
I and some dozen or score of really distinguished men in
literature and science are avowed believers in the absolutely
j supernatural character of spiritualistic phenomena. As we
write, the Saturday Review comes in with an article on
| Spiritualism at the British Association, which might have
been sufficient for the knowledge people had on the subject
| fifteen years ago, but is ludicrously inapplicable now, to the
! extent even of being stupid, which is a fault one can very
I rarely urge against the Saturday Review.”
Spiritualists do not believe in the manifestations being
11 supernatural; ” but the phenomena are at present to all
appearance so far removed in degree and in kind from those
of an ordinary nature as to almost warrant the use of the
term. Still the various descriptions of Spiritual phenomena
can be correlated ; they also develope in obedience to fixed
| laws belonging perhaps more to another state of existence
than to our own.
In another part of the Allahabad article it is said :—
“ The supernatural, as we say, is very interesting. The
world would be a much more entertaining place than it is if
| one were once persuaded beyond doubt that invisible intel-
| ligences were around us capable of taking part in the drama
I of life. We have found out most that there can be to know
I about the earth’s surface : its natural laws are not perhaps
| exhaustively understood, but so much is known of them that
| we cannot hope for a great and stirring excitement in that
] department of knowledge. Bat if the supernatural is found
to be a fact, there would be no end to the possibilities of dis-
|. covery in that direction. No matter if its first manifestations
j are of a sordid, unromantic character. If it comes to be
182
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 17, 1876.
proved beyond the assaults of incredulity, established as an j (
irresistible fact, that tables do move sometimes in a super- |j
natural manner, that raps not made by human means signal | j
out supernatural messages from minds which are outside ||
humanity, and living about us in some non-material shape : j
these facts are of tremendous import, no matter what non- |
sense may . be said, for the present. So then it is a great |
pity that—inasmuch as one can hardly deny in presence of j
available testimony on the subject, that supernatural occur- j
rences of this nature have sometimes taken place—no one j
with opportunities seems to be engaged, in a methodical, j
scientific spirit, in working out the conditions under which j
they occur, l Spiritualists may say that they do watch condi- !
tions, but none of them can tell what mediumship consists j
in, assuming the medium hypothesis, and even that is a |
mere guess. There is not even a supernatural society in j
existence to be the centre of any system of methodical j
records.”
From what has been quoted, it will be seen that the j
writer displays more absence of prejudice, and more know- j
ledge of scientific law than is at all common with those who j
have to do with daily newspapers; l)ut, in consequence of |
insufficient acquaintance with the subject, he has drawn i
wrong conclusions. For instance, the statement that there is j
no society in existence to be a centre for the filing of !
methodical records, is inaccurate. The National Association j
of Spiritualists is not only a large and powerful society, but has |
a scientific research committee, which systematically files j
accurate records, and carries on an expensive and painstaking j
system of original experimental research. It does it in as j
efficient a manner as any of the older societies, and obtains |
wide publicity for its proceedings, for but a minority of the j
learned societies of London have weekly newspapers devoted |
to the subjects with which they deal. Another error of the |
writer is that no Spiritualists watch conditions, or can tell |
much about mediumship; there are some few persons to j
whom this remark is inapplicable. The reason that the few |
who possess advanced knowledge on the subject do not j
bring it forward is, that while the public are howling against )
the facts, and persecuting the mediums, it is quite useless to j
attempt to furnish them with any philosophy, consequently j
those who are able to do so hold their tongues. Mob in- j
fluence prevails for the present, and it would be merely j
waste of energy to give conclusions to persons who are in a f
rabid state of antagonism to the facts. j)
As the Allahabad Pioneer recognises that observation and |
research are necessary, can it explain why something is not j
done to put its ideas in force in India? Among the fakirs, |;
and among several of the native races of India, occult j
powers are possessed in perfection. The manifestations in j
the presence of some of the natives of India take place in j
broad daylight, in the open air, and far exceed anything ever |
seen in this country. So much is this the case that the idea |
has been broached of importing a fakir, that his powers j
may be examined in England. If anybody—like the writer is
of the article now under review—who understands scientific j
methods, were to take the work in hand of observing and j
recording the said phenomena on the spot, his labours would j
be greatly appreciated in this country. There is scarcely a j(
Spiritualist of education or intelligence in England who has j
not longed for an opportunity of closely studying the mani- j
festations observable in the presence of the Indian fakirs, j
Not only should the manifestations be accurately described, j
but the history of the individual be recorded, his mode of |
life, his physical, moral, physiological, and other character- I
istics. The onl}7' approach to any comprehensive informa- jl
tion of this kind which has been accessible in England was j)
published some twenty years ago in the Dublin University K
Magazine, and in a recent French work by Jacolliot.
The President of the Spanish Society of Spiritualists (Madrid),
Viscount de Torres Solanot, is expected in London in a few days.
Spiritualist Discussion Meetings.—On Monday next, the 20th
inst,, the second fortnightly meeting of the members of the National
Association of Spiritualists will be held at 38, Great Russell-street,
London. The subject will be “The best Tests to be applied to the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism,” and will be opened by a paper
by Mr. J. W. Gray, C.E., Member of the Experimental Research
Committee of the Association.
DR. MONCK.
Last week, Dr. Monck—a medium who obtains strong
manifestations, which have been observed chiefly by
Spiritualists and by disbelievers in the provinces—was
convicted at Huddersfield Police-court, when charged with
imposture, under the Vagrancy Act. Those who gave evi¬
dence against him were Spiritualists and mesmerists, con¬
sequently they must have had what they believed to be good
evidence for the step which they took.
We know nothing of the case beyond that which has been
printed in the newspapers, and are not aware that Dr. Monck
has given a seance in London for nearly two years. That
strong genuine manifestations have taken place in his pre¬
sence is beyond all question ; for instance, the published records
of his recent seances show that in the presence of Spiritualists
and disbelievers it has been a common thing for a chair, in a
good light, and far removed from him, to jump upon the top
of the table when nobody was near it or touching it, and
this too in strange houses to which Dr. Monck had been in¬
vited to give sittings. In the presence of the editor of the
Malvern News, and other disbelievers, a pencil was recently
seen to stand on end at one of his stances ; a disbeliever pre¬
sent supposed that it was sticking into the table-cover, so
Dr. Monck asked him to examine it. He did so, then laid
it down upon the table ; the pencil then rose on end by it¬
self and wrote out a message before the eyes of all present.
The editor of one of the Isle of Wight newspapers once
recorded in The Spiritualist, how powerful manifestations
took place at a hotel dinner table in broad daylight while Dr.
Monck was present. The guest could not understand why
the wine-glasses were moving about with nobody touching
them, or why the furniture displayed freaks to which it was
unaccustomed. At last the information that Dr. Monck, the
celebrated medium, was present, was the only explanation
which the observers could obtain of the circumstances, and
with that explanation they were obliged to be satisfied.
So much for one side of the picture. Now for the other.
When Dr. Monck was taken into custody at Huddersfield
he gave the information that he possessed a yacht and a
carriage at Bristol, which statement on inquiry proved not
to be true as regards the yacht; the carriage was worth
£14. When the statement about the yacht was discovered
to be false, he gave the information that he could prove that
he once had two yachts and two carriages; whether he had
or had not was in no way relevant to the issue, and the
police, after the experience they had gained in inquiring
into the first irrelevant statement, probably have not wasted
their energies in giving attention to the second.
At the trial those who gave evidence against him were
Mr. George Henry Hepplestone and family, and a Mr.
Lodge. Mr. Hepplestone is described in the newspapers as
a general dealer, residing at Arthur-street, Huddersfield.
The evidence of the Hepplestone family, critically examined,
amounted merely to this—that they had a feeble stance, at
which several occurrences were witnessed under more or less
suspicious conditions, but presenting no absolute proof of
imposture. A worse fact was that in Dr. Monck’s baggage
some stuffed gloves and conjuring apparatus were found, but
according to the Daily Telegraph the witnesses for the
defence showed that Dr. Monck was a respectable man, and
that he had been using things similar to those in his pro¬
fession to expose the performances of Herr Dobler. It will
be remembered that some time since Dr. Monck lectured in
various parts of the country against conjurers, and showed
how their tricks were done. Dr. Sexton lent him for the
purpose the apparatus he had constructed to show up Maske-
lyne and Cooke’s tricks. In fact, after we had printed in
these pages how every trick shown by Messrs. Maskelyno
and Cooke at the Crystal Palace was performed, Dr. Sexton
(who at first did not believe our explanation) made appara¬
tus on the principles we had published, and reproduced and
exposed the whole of the said tricks before large audiences.
Now comes the worst part of the evidence against Dr.
Monck. A mesmerist and a conjurer, described'in the news¬
papers as Henry Bedford Lodge, woollen salesman, deposed
to the following conversation as having taken place a few
days after the stance at Mr. Hepplestone's:—
Nov. 17, 1876. THE SPIBITU ALIST. 183
A few days later I saw the doctor, who asked to he allowed to speak
to me; I agreed; the doctor pushed the door to, fell on his knees and
said, “For God’s sake, Mr. Lodge, save me.” I said, “ I can’t tell what
to make of you, doctor, you will say anything against me when others
are present, and I don’t know what to make of it.” He told me, “ I’ll
give you all, and tell you how the tricks are done if you will only give
me those things that will criminate me.”\ He began to cry, and said he
would appeal to my better nature, that he had a mother and two sisters
to support. His mother is dead. (Laughter.) I had made up my
mind that I would thoroughly expose hiin. He said something about
my being a business man, and asked what would satisfy me. I replied,
“If you mean money, don’t talk about that.” I said also, “ Just speak
the truth for a short time. If there is such a thing as a real medium,
or such a thing as real materialisation, I should very much like to know
where they are to be seen.” He said, “ I believe, Mr. Lodge, there is
one in Liverpool, and I will get you his address.” I answered, “Is
there not one amongst the mediums in London? ” (Mentioning Herne,
Williams, Bastian, Taylor, and Holmes.) He said, “I believe in my
ii^most soul that it is right.” I said, “ This must be a dreadful life for
you, to be wondering every day whether you will be found out.” He
replied, “ Mr. Lodge, it’s hell upon earth; it’s hell upon earth.” I said,
“You are a man of ability; you might earn a living.” That was after
he had asked me what he was to do, and he said in reply that the
mediums were in a measure forced to do this, as the Spiritualists were
such a selfish lot that if the spirits did come they humbugged them a
great deal. I said to him, “ I suppose you put up these hands when
the other ones don’t come? ” I asked him how he came to do all this,
and he told me he was at Bristol, and his wife came to him there and
answered ten test questions, and he was sure that no mortal knew any¬
thing about this but his wife and himself. He asked-me if I believed
him capable of not speaking the truth, and I told him I did not think
him incapable of anything. He told me that he would lead an honest
life in the future; that he would go to America, or anywhere I liked.
What is the interpretation of this ? A little examination
may perhaps furnish the key. In another portion of Mr.
Lodge’s, evidence we find that before Dr. Monck gave his
stance, Mr. Lodge had been mesmerising a Mr. Johnson,
and had succeeded in influencing him, also that soon after
Dr. Monck’s entrance he found out that Dr. Monck knew
something about mesmerism. Mr. Lodge also told Dr.
Monck that he did not believe in spirits. This witness then
was one of those half-informed people, a practical mesmer¬
ist, with no experience in Spiritualism or its phenomena,
and he had a theory to support. Mr. Lodge further de¬
posed that while Mr. Johnson was in a comatose state, “ Dr.
Monck made a pass, and I saw that it was not the first he
had made. He is very clever.”
Over and over again have we published in these pages
that strong mediums are mesmeric sensitives. They are
not the mesmerists which Mr. Lodge implies them to be.
In those instructions for forming spirit circles which we
once published in our advertising columns for years together,
was the statement that one of the chief characteristics of
strong mediums was their susceptibility to mesmeric influ¬
ence. But Mr. Lodge, from his want of acquaintance with
the subject, liad built up a theory that Dr. Monck was a
mesmerist capable of influencing others, instead of a subject
liable to come under the control of a stronger will than his
own, and to be governed by abnormal influences. This
mesmeric sensitive, who had first had some things seized,
which he certainly had no business to carry about with him
except upon one of his lecturing tours for the exposure of
conjurors, calls upon a mesmerist, Mr. Lodge, and the two
of them are by themselves in a room with no other witness
present. Assuming, for the sake of argument, the accuracy
of all the statements of Mr. Lodge, it seems to us he had
in the room with him a sensitive more or less under his
influence, and more or less in an abnormal state, and who,
like Topsy, was ready to confess anything, or to do anything
to get out of trouble, but who, by saying what was not true,
succeeded in plunging himself deeper into the mire. He
told the palpable untruth that he had his mother to support,
whereas the said mother had long since entered the spirit
world, so that the statement belonged to the same category
as that of the yachts and carriages. It will be noticed how
all these facts fit in with the statement which Mr. Jencken,
with his large experience in mediumship, made at one of
the public meetings of the National Association of Spirit-
nalists, when he spoke of the great mass of communications
given through physical mediums being objectless lies,” a
statement in which Mr. Jencken was supported by Mr.
Harrison. The law is, that, the lower the spirit, the
greater is its power over common matter ; ” consequently, if
powerful physical manifestations are demanded—if it is
requested that spirits shall do the mechanical work of
hauling chairs and tables about, the lower beings in the next
world are very properly deputed to perform such offices,
perhaps because they alone possess the requisite direct power
over material things.
In Dr. Monck, the medium, we appear to have a mes¬
meric sensitive, scarcely more responsible for his acts than
a biologised youth on the public platform of a mes¬
merist, who can make the boy eat a raw cabbage, under
the firm conviction that it is an apple. In addition to this,
Dr. Monck finds himself in the presence of a man who
understands mesmerism, he then, consequently, makes state¬
ments which coincide with that man’s will and opinions.
Further, Dr. Monck may at the time have been more or less
under the influence of those beings who habitually utter so
many objectless lies. Altogether, it is a pitiable case of a
person subject to abnormal influences, being surrounded by
ignorant but well-meaning persons, who know nothing
whatever about psychological conditions, but judge him by
the rule of their own ordinary experiences. Such mesmeric
sensitives should not travel about the country friendless and
alone, but should have some business manager, some guide
and protector, who would not only help to ward off the attacks
of the ignorant, but to protect them from themselves, like¬
wise from the impish unseen beings who sometimes control
their actions, and who not unfrequently claim to be the
spirits of savages; and savages, even when in the flesh, are
not always noted for veracity, although, in exceptional cases,
they may in this respect be superior to their civilised
neighbours.
ON THE USE OF FLUORESCENT RAYS AND THE
LIGHT FROM VACUUM TUBES' AT MATERIALISA¬
TION SEANCES.
BY LB COMTE DE BULLET.
Allow me to write to you upon a subject which I con¬
sider important to those who hold regular seances, or who
are interested in the wonderful phenomena of Spiritualism.
I will be brief as possible.
The ordinary lights employed at materialisation seances
have always, in my experience, been a drawback to com¬
plete manifestations. This must also be the experience of
Spiritualistic investigators in' general, except in cases of
extraordinary and concentrated medial power. To over¬
come the difficulty, I have been constantly searching for
an appropriate light. I have used every description
of ordinary light, having had lamps made expressly of
all conceivable shapes, sizes, and colours, together with
appliances for subduing and softening the rays emitted, but
ever with the same unsatisfactory results. It would seem
that all light produced by combustion is objectionable, and
the philosophy of this I have not yet solved. But about
two months ago the idea crossed my mind of trying the
electrical light by the induction spark in an approximate
vacuum, t Accordingly I ordered one of Ruhmkorff’s coils,
giving a spark of 0*05 centimetre, and two cells of a bi¬
chromate of potash battery, each cell of the capacity of
5 litres, or a little over a gallon. The zinc and carbon
plates were attached to a rod, for the purpose of raising
them out of the acid, or of depressing them, and the spark
was given in a G-eissler’s tube, with a globe containing a
concentric spiral tube of about 00*9 centimetre in dia¬
meter. A nitrogen vacuum was contained in the spiral,
and the globe enclosing the spiral was filled with a solution
of sulphate of quinine. The tube is about 15 inches long,
and is fixed upon a pedestal, about 10 inches high.
After a series of experiments, I have succeeded in pro¬
ducing a beautiful pink and blue light to completely illumi¬
nate the room, so as to make the smallest objects clearly
visible. The illumination may be compared to that given
by a bright full moon. The success has been most satis¬
factory, and I may well say this, as I have used the light
every day now for six weeks. The spirits face it and stare
at it, without the least shripking. I may add that my
experiments are made in a small room about 15 ft. by 10 ft.
in dimensions. I have also used a similar globe, with the
spiral made of uranium glass, whilst the globe was filled
with nitrate of uranium or some other fluorescent liquid,
184 THE SPIRITUALIST.
a
Nov. 17, 1876.
DR. FORBES WINSLOW ON LUNATIC SPIRITUALISTS.
and the light produced answered admirably. The whole
apparatus is placed upon a table, with the tubes in a verti¬
cal position in relation to the curtain in front of the
opening from which the spirits emerge. The entire appa¬
ratus can be made here in Paris at a very reasonable price,
especially the tubes, which require to be constructed with
great care.
Those acquainted with electricity understand and can easily
fit up and manage the apparatus, but the uninitiated should
consult an electrician, who will readily instruct them how to
proceed, and how to avoid the powerful shocks given by a
RuhmkorfPs coil of the size required. To guard against all
such danger, I have had the poles of my coil covered with a
glass cap, and the wires with a good insulating substance. I
use the bichromate of potash battery because of its simplicity
and cleanliness, and particularly as it gives no nitrous acid
or other noxious emanations whatever. The intensity of the
light is increased or diminished as required, by turning a
commutator.
Since I have used this light, our seances have improved
in a wonderful manner in all respects. Before starting the
light it is best to remain a few minutes in darkness; by so
doing the power to see all objects in the room is gained at once
by the dilatation of the pupil of the eye ; otherwise from ten
to fifteen minutes are necessary for the eye to see clearly by
the subdued light.
Reflecting a few days back on the similarity in appearance
of this light to that sometimes brought by the spirits them¬
selves, I thought that perhaps, I might make use of mine in
the dark seances, when spirits materialise around the table,
and upon asking the question of them, the answer was that
it might be used with success to make them visible under
such conditions. I have, therefore, ordered a small coil
battery and tube to be fixed in a light case of about 6 by 3
by 4 inches, with a handle, so that the spirit may hold the
case and start the light when he is ready for it. In a few
days I will make a trial of this light, and if the result is
satisfactory I will communicate it to you. If by any means
we can be enabled to suddenly illuminate a room during a
dark seance (the spirits permitting it), and to show several
spirits at the time around the table, it would be a grand point
gained against scepticism.
Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
SPECIAL APPEAL OF THE COMMITTEE.
u Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence
of a magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment; and
punishment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him.
This highly-gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day
in England, is condemned to 4 hard labour/ and will, in
January, 1877, become the forced associate of criminals.
Unless we adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent
this outrageous calamity!
44 The affair is not individual, but relates to all. The
struggle raised before the nation is between Materialism
and Spiritualism. A more important issue was never
before us. Spiritualism demonstrates, through facts occur¬
ring around us, the reality of a future life; while
Materialism would deprive humanity of the precious doc¬
trine of Immortality.
“When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they
without appeal suffer him whom they consider innocent
to be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a
struggle? Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness,
let us perform what we know to be right
“The question is before us! According to the measure of
support so will be the power of the Committee, and their ability
for action.
“ Donations will be received by the Joint Treasurers.
THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-square.
Honorary f J. Enmore Jones, Enmore Park, S.E.
Treasurers. (Geo. Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Cmnberland-place, W.”
i|| Some days ago a letter from Dr. Forbes Winslow, on
: | Spiritualism, appeared in the Standard; it was full of
| statistical and other errors, and the substance of it was that
j Spiritualism was filling American and English madhouses;
| with lunatics.
We do not know of a single Spiritualist or medium con-
I fined at the present time in any British lunatic asylum, and
I] Dr. Forbes Winslow’s statistics are certainly destitute of all
; j foundation in fact. In his pamphlet on Spiritualism just
;|j published, Dr. Winslow describes Andrew Jackson Davis as
j the “ originator ” of modern Spiritualism in 1848—which he
! was not, and is never supposed to have been ; and on page 6:
: j he says, u The spirit-faith in America possesses over twenty
j thousand so-called media, who have a believing congregation'
j of two millions.” If he had said five hundred instead of'
j twenty thousand media he would have been nearly right hr
j his figures. On page 8 he states, “ Before Spiritualism had
j been in existence five years, there were thirty thousand
! media,” or according to his own figures five thousand more
| than to-day—twenty years later.
! His figures are wholly based upon imagination, and bear
j no approximation to accuracy; he seems to know of no-
j Spiritualist or medium in an English lunatic asylum; he
! therefore falls back entirely upon some French anecdotes
| about Spiritualist lunatics, which he appears to have culled
j from a book published at Lyons, but he does not acknow-
j ledge the source of his information.
One medium once was in a lunatic asylum—Mrs. Lowe,
j the wife of a clergyman. She soon made the place too hot
j to hold her, and the Commissioners in Lunacy let her out
I after some delay. She then brought an action against them
) in the Court of Queen’s Bench, started the Lunacy Law
jj Reform Association, and has been a thorn in their sides ever
j since. She is a pleasing, well-educated public speaker, and
; [ has addressed large meetings in all parts of the kingdom,
! stirring up strong feeling against such abuses as are to be
j found in the lunacy system.
:|| There is no doubt that doctors unintentionally drive a
(I great many people mad because of their want of knowledge
j of the facts of mediumship. For instance, Mrs. Guppy once
[i saw spirits in broad daylight; she and her father concealed
| the fact from the doctors, lest she should be imprisoned on
j the certificate of two medical men like others similarly cir-
j cumstanced. Afterwards she sat for the first time in a spirit-
j circle; the objective phenomena such as the movement of
j solid objects, then began in her presence, and the subjective
j phenomena, if such the visions were, ceased. This substitu-
(: tion of the one order of phenomena for the other has been
j noticed in other persons, who would have certainly been
j driven mad had the lunacy doctors sent them to be sur-
| rounded by the adverse influences of an asylum. Such per-
| sons are mesmeric sensitives, and require careful treatment.
Dr. Forbes Winslow does not appear to have ever been at
|| a’ seance, to have ever seen a medium, to know anything
[I about the spiritual movement or its origin, or to be at all
!j acquainted with its literature or phenomena. He may,
|! perhaps, have seen a paragraph in an encyclopedia which
•I has given him some vague ideas about Spiritualism, but
II from his writings it is difficult to believe that he has ever
|! read even one elementary book on the subject. We have
[| read his pamphlet, and have thereby been conscientiously
11 convinced that he knows no more about Spiritualism or
'j Spiritualists than a Fiji Islander does about the nature and
jj details of the work of the Royal Observatory at Greenwich,
j His figures bear no approach to accuracy. If all the
jj mediums in Great Britain were put into a lunatic asylum
jj to-morrow, they would number but 200 or 250 altogether;
about ten of them are professionals, and the rest private
I individuals who display their powers in private life.
I Spiritualists are mostly critical and scientific people,
| which accounts for the absence among them of the
jj religious mania, which Dr. Winslow truly says does so much
)! to fill our lunatic asylums. The author of the pamphlet
I would have done more to win the respect of readers had he
jj displayed the knowledge and accuracy which characterised
J] his learned father when dealing with public questions.
Nov. 17, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 185
SPIRITUALISM AT EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY.
Most of the classes in the Faculties of Arts, Law, and Medicine were
^opened on‘Wednesday, Nov. 1st, at Edinburgh University, by presi¬
dential addresses. The following are extracts from the reports of them
in The Scotsman ;—
PROFESSOR CALDERWOOD ON “ SCIENCE AND SPIRITUALISM.”
To a numerous audience Professor Calderwood delivered his opening
lecture in the Moral Philosophy class-room, taking as his subject,
<< Spiritualism and Science.” The appearance of so-called Spiritualism
in a section of the British Association 'at its last meeting was, he said,
-certainly a surprise to the non-scientific public. (Laughter and
applause.) It might be that our scientific men were weary of sober
investigation and had taken to burlesque as variety—(laughter)—or
that there was some recoil from extreme materialism, and that the
recoil itself had become utterly extreme. (Applause.) Some scientific
Inquirers, however, taking a grimmer view of what should be done,
had resorted to judicial tests of scientific evidence, and our criminal
courts had become the resort of scientific investigators—(laughter) —
and Spiritualistic mediums were being prosecuted under the Vagrant
Act. (Renewed laughter.) This test of Spiritualism was the newest
application of the observational method, and the country was having it
•convincingly illustrated how potent this method was in leading men to
the discovery of truth. (Laughter.) After pointing out that the fact
that there were certain phenomena to be accounted for should not be
confounded with the assumption of the Spiritualistic theory, he re¬
marked that the first thing to be noted in connection with Spiritualistic
manifestations was that they were all connected with the presence of
some one specially fitted for being a medium. The admitted necessity
for such a medium as this was a thing to be tested ; and, primd facie,
the fact was unfavourable to the pretensions put forward. The neces¬
sity for such a resort subjected all observations to unusual risks of
imposture, for it was to be observed that wherever a charge of wilful
deception had been brought home it had always been to the condemna¬
tion of the medium—in no case had it seemed warrantable to charge
•deception on the spirits said to be in attendance. (Laughter.) There
was always, too, the presence of certain nervous influences, consequent
upon the attendance of the medium, so that it remained a reasonable
subject for inquiry whether the whole phenomena be not connected
with latent possibilities of our nervous organisms quite apart from a
distinct order of spiritual beings. Referring to the nature of the mani¬
festations placed before the public, the Professor pointed out that in the
first class of these there was met an alleged Spiritualistic action upon
material objects, as shown in table rapping and turning. He was not
aware, he said, that there was any reason for doubting the reality of
these facts of table turning—(applause)—but the theory offered in their
explanation was that invisible spirits, attracted to the place by the
presence of the medium, were occupying themselves in causing a disturb¬
ance amongst the articles of furniture in the room. (Laughter.) The
suggestion was eminently ridiculous. (Laughter and applause.) It
seemed reasonable to ask why spirits should occupy themselves in such
an unreasonable way—if they were present they might surely do some¬
thing to more purpose than uselessly knock about chairs—(laughter)—
and lift tables into the air only to set them down again. (Renewed
laughter.) When, however, such suggestions were made they were re¬
minded that these were founded only upon reason and not upon obser¬
vation, whereas it was granted by all scientific men that the observa¬
tional method was the only reliable test of truth, and that the day for
d priori reasoning was over and gone. Suppose they confined themselves
to observation, then the fact of excitement in the medium must be
familiar to all who had glanced at the evidence given in the case now
ignominiously but suitably enough ended. (Applause.) In whatever
way the agitation was -produced, there was evidently sufficient physical
exertion to account for a plentiful amount of noise. The phenomena,
indeed, seemed to depend upon nerve energy transmuted into muscular
activity; and the question arose, might not this energy or force pass
from the body in which it was generated, and as an invisible agent
passing through the ether, act upon material bodies as electricity or
mesmerism did ? (Applause.) They would notice that from beginning
to end this theory dealt with a physical problem ; it did not even touch
a mental problem. (Applause.) With regard to the experiments made
by Mr. Crookes some years ago with a view to prove the existence of
psychic force, he submitted that this force should rather be termed
nervous; and proceeding then to treat of the second class of Spirit¬
ualistic manifestations, such as the appearance of spirits in bodily form,
he submitted that on the surface of it it seemed unreasonable to suppose
that spirits became visible. The medium at the time of these appear¬
ances was, he reminded his hearers, commonly in a state of trance. In
dealing with such manifestations the proper test was afforded by the
conversation of the alleged spirits; and when this test was applied the
result was utterly unfavourable. The words of the spirits were so few,
their thoughts so poor, so far beneath the elevated converse of this
world, that one could only conclude that Spiritualists had wandered
into a quagmire, misled by a will-o’-the-wisp. (Laughter.) As an
evidence of this failure in conversation, the Professor narrated what j
had occurred at a seance he had attended. He had, he stated, been so
far favoured by the spirits that he was asked to call any one he pleased,
and naturally wishing te speak with one whose thoughts he would
understand, he had asked for Dugald Stewart, adding that he should
like to hear this spirit’s ideas on the philosophy with which he was j
connected. After this spirit had conversed with him for sometime, I
during which he wrote down what was said, he desired it to stop, finding
that what was being spoken was rubbish—was merely the haphazard |
answering of a man who did not know much about the subject.
(Laughter.) Considering the causes of these manifestations, Professor
Calderwood pointed out that new and important facts had been estab- 1
Mi lished concerning nervous force. There was much, he thought, to
ill warrant the conclusion that this force was in many circumstances
| ( | passing unconsciously froin the body, and producing effects of which
i > j we were unobservant. There was evidence, too, that this force might
|| be developed in an abnormal way, inducing a condition of body un-
Ki favourable to health, and a Condition of mind unfavourable to the main-
jlj tenance of will-power, and so adverse to the moral character. One of
j/| the most striking results ascertained in connection with mesmeric and
is I so-called Spiritualistic phenomena was the undoubted evidence of a
j;; possible communication between mind and mind, by a channel distinct
| (I from the ordinary methods of communication, and somehow connected
jvi with our nervous organisms. (Applause.) After further maintaining
j/j that there was hardly any evidence in support of the Spiritualistic
j(j hypotheses, he concluded by enforcing these propositions—first, that
jvj the distinction between mind and body rested upon evidence clear and
j) | ample, without any reference to a state of existence beyond the present;
|(j and, secondly, that observational science when taken alone was not a
Hj sufficient or satisfactory method of training the mind for the discovery
I) j of truth, it being warrantable to reason deductively in a line adverse to
K j many applications of this method. (Applause.)
PROFESSOR FRASER ON PHILOSOPHICAL SYSTEMS.
I j j In the class of Logic and Metaphysics there was a good attendance of
j( ! students, and Professor Fraser, on entering the class-room, was loudly
j | ] cheered. He began his introductory lecture by welcoming the students
m to his class, and trusting that his retrospect of the present session might
I be as satisfactory as that of the past. There was, he said, room for a
||I fresh review of the historical development of philosophy in the past in
j) j the orderly connection of its facts. The historian of philosophy had to
i(j show by what methods, and with what different sorts of results,
!) I thoughtful minds had tried to reach the ultimate inferences that could
! j be drawn about the origin and meaning of the actual universe of matter
| (| and mind, and about our personal destiny in it—the ultimate inferences,
|)| in short, about God, physical and moral government, and the immor-
jjj tality of men. He had to trace the gradual philosophical education of
| (i our moral certainty of a Divine origin and order of things, and of our
m own unending connection with that order—an education conducted
|) | through means of the two contrary tendencies towards pure materialism
| | and pure idealism, corrected, as the extremes had been at intervals, by
|;| scepticism or agnosticism. These elements had constituted the past of
|j philosophy, and might be expected to dominate in its future. The
|\| history of philosophy involved, and was touched by the universal
| j | history of mankind, and its scientific character was becoming more re¬
in cognised as they found that the chronological evolution of its facts
Ml expressed rational oi’der, and issued in a deepening insight at each
j)| successive epoch. The discord and contradictoriness of the systems
I (| which arose in this orderly evolution were apt, indeed, in the superficial
M | observer of them, to induce a feeling of sceptical indifference about the
|)| whole subject. But we had conflicting sects and systems of thought in
|(| the most important spheres of human life—for instance, in politics and
m in religion—and eclectic endeavours to induce unity of thought had
)| ended in failure. This failure, more deeply considered, did not teach
i(| the lesson of indifference regarding these subjects, or regarding belief
||| and knowledge generally. We might be one in practical life, and in
)j the constituent elements of common reason on which our lives are un-
|( consciously based, while we differed in our solutions of the infinite pro-
|i blems of philosophy, and still more in the formulas of language we
|) | employed to express these solutions. There was an individuality of
j (| intellectual habit and point of view among men which forbade unity on
1)1 questions of this sort, and determined such contrasts as that by which
!the Platonist was distinguished from the Aristotelian—the ontological
I rationalist from him who was satisfied to resolve all human knowledge
I into probability, and who found the highest criterion of actual truth in
| moral certainty and a balance of likelihoods. Philosophy was reflection
I) upon our ordinary experience, in order to determine whether this rested
!|! on the one or the other of these foundations, or on a mixture of both,
i j | Those who were content with their ordinary unreflected experience
!}! could have it without disturbing themselves about the principles of
m common reason that were embedded in it, but if all men were to do so
||| their common experience itself would retrograde, and decline into the
|) | animal life of the savage. The constituent principles of the common
111 and moral sense became dormant when they were not reflected on, and
! <1 any one of them lost its force when the mind of the age. was withdrawn
jjj from it. These principles were potentially rather than consciously
| | necessary. Thus our sense of ourselves as free, and therefore morally
u obligated, might become weak; and so, too, might our moral certainty
111 of the existence of God, or supreme moral order and immortality, which
v thus occasionally lost their influence in. an age during a temporary #
11 i eclipse. The dreamy recluse weakened his ordinary sense of external
11 reality, and the materialist philosopher and exclusive devotee of the
) | sciepces of external nature lost his very power of apprehending facts of
11 moral experience. In failing to recognise, for instance, the deep mean-
|| ing wrapped up in the personal pronoun “I,” the whole metaphysical
| i or supernatural world became illusory, along with all that did not from
) i its nature admit of verification by external experiments. The history
11 of epochs in the opposite directions of materialism or sensationalism, or
11 of idealism and ontological rationalism, each extreme issuing in a
11 scepticism from which recovery was always made through the spon-
jj taneous influences of common sense, improved by the philosophical
< j experience to which it had thus been subjected, was what we had to
11 follow out in detail, in ancient, mediaeval, and modern history.
I Mr. E. W. "Wallis, trance medium, is about to take the house at 3,
| St.- Peter’s-road, Mile End, London, and to carry on the work at the
East-end so long continued by the late Mr. Cogman. Mrs, Cogman
•i will leave the locality.
186
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Nov. 17, 1876.
THE SLADE PROSECUTION.
Dr. Slade’s case will be carried before the Court of
Queen’s Bench, where the appeal for the quashing of the
magisterial sentence will most likely be successful, not much
to the regret of Mr. Flowers, if we may judge from his re¬
marks at the trial.
One of the many scientific mistakes of Messrs. Lankester
and Donkin has not yet, we believe, been publicly pointed
out. They assumed that the writing must come after the
slate was 11 in position” under the table, whereas directly
any portion of it goes into the shade, writing often enough
comes upon it in an instant. There were witnesses at Bow-
street who were not called because of the limitation of evi¬
dence for the defence, but who had seen writing upon the
slate when the slate had been pushed but half under the
table, and was then withdrawn, the slate in its presentation
and withdrawal, moving as quickly as the swing of a
pendulum.
Another great mistake the prosecutors made was in one
of the letters to the Times, to the effect that the writing
came on the illuminated or lower side of the slate. Such a
thing has never been seen by anybody else at Dr. Slade’s
seances, and to competent and experienced investigators
would have at once implied imposture. In the witness-box
Messrs. Lankester and Donkin would not endorse their own
assertion in the Times.
Dr. Slade is giving satisfactory stances as usual, mostly to
educated and critical disbelievers, who of course find that
Messrs. Lankester and Donkin’s explanations are worthless
in relation to the particular phenomenon to which they have
been applied.
THE QUEEN'S ATTENTION INVITED TO SPIRITUAL
PHENOMENA.
A tear or two ago these pages were freely and fully opened to a warm
controversy between Mr. Serjeant Cox and Mrs. Showers about the
mediumship of Miss Showers, the only child of Major-General C. S»
Showers, late political agent at the Courts of Odeypoor and Gwalior,
and niece of General D. Showers, C.B., whose career in India is a
matter of history. Some echoes from that combat have found their way
into The Examiner of last week, from which we make extracts bearing
no reference to the bygone contention. Mrs. Showers says
Into the circumstances of the development of Miss Showers’s medium-
ship it is not my purpose to enter, further than to affirm that during the
process of that development she was never in any way—no, not for a single
instant—associated with any professional or non-professional medium
in the world, that the whole of the manifestations that occurred in my
house—280 miles away from London—pursued their wonderful, start¬
ling, and irrepressible course, without our having had the slightest pre¬
vious acquaintance with the subject, or being able to form the remotest
conjecture as to any successive phase that the phenomena were likely to
assume. We never so much as contemplated the possibility of any pub¬
licity in the matter, and it was therefore a train of utterly unforeseen
circumstances that led me into the position in which I am, however,
exceedingly proud to stand, that of an advocate of Spiritualism, of one
who recognises faith in the Invisible, not only as a Reality, but as the
only Reality.
In August, 1873, my husband, with whom I was in communication
on the subject, was so much impressed by the spirit and beauty of some
of the poetical manifestations that were given through our daughter,
then only sixteen years old, that he addressed the following letter to the
Queen, and her Majesty was graciously pleased to direct Sir Thomas
Biddulph to acknowledge the receipt of it. You will perceive, there¬
fore, sir, that in this case, at any rate, the medium did not chance to be
one of those persons of “unknown antecedents ” on whom it is, accord¬
ing to the Daily News, popularly supposed that “ spirits have a trick of
fastening themselves.”
1 “ Mussoorie, Himalayas, August 11th, 1873. ■
“Madam,—-I hope your Majesty will pardon the liberty on which I
have ventured in addressing you, to submit for your perusal the en¬
closed letter from my wife, Mrs. Charles Showers, who had the honour
of being presented to your Majesty by her aunt, the late Honourable
Mrs. Charles Ewan Law, communicating answers received, through the
medium of our daughter, from the spirit world, in response to the
highest and most important questions that can affect the living in this
world.
“ I would premise that, on receiving recently an account of some very
extraordinary Spiritualistic manifestations, of which my daughter was
represented to have been the medium, I wrote to my wife, disapproving
of the experiments, and expressing a hope that my daughter might
never be allowed to take part in anything of the kind for the future.
The enclosed communication is in answer to that remonstrance. The
power which my daughter possesses as a medium for good would appear
by the enclosed answer, received in writing, to the vital questions asked,
the same being herein recorded, and my objections are silenced. It has
occurred to ine, then, that it might interest your Majesty to witness'
some manifestations of my daughter’s power, and examine the original
m writings of the enclosed verses. If so, my wife, with whom I am com-
| municating on the subject, will be prepared to receive your royal com-
{! mands, and to wait upon your Majesty, accompanied by my daughter,
j | at any time she may be honoured with the same.
| “ If, on the other hand, the subject should not interest your Majesty,,
| i all I would hope, Madam, is, that you will pardon the liberty on which
j j I have ventured in obtruding the enclosed communication upon your
11 august presence, under a sense of its mingled mystery and sacredness,
j | and condescend to direct the letter to be forwarded to my address in
(; London, The Travellers’ Club, Pall Mall, to await my return to¬
ll England.-—I have the honour to be, Madam, your Majesty’s most
11 faithful and humble servant, C. L. Showers.”
| j Mrs. Showers further tells The Examiner's readers that—“ Previously
(j to the acceptance of Mr. Cox’s invitation, I had written and told him that
(| the spirit form seemed to me to be my own child in a trance. A more
11 extended acquaintance with this perplexing and still mysterious subject
(i has, however, led me to change this impressiop, and the subsequent
(I testimony of competent and honourable investigators confirms that of
>| Miss Florence Marryat (Mrs. Ross-Church), who, in presence of the
(I guests of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, among others, of Prince Albert of
(j Solms Braunfell—a cousin of Her Majesty—solemnly and tremblingly
| i testified that, on entering the cabinet where my daughter was lying un-
11 conscious, she saw and felt not only one but two spirits by her side.
(! This cabinet was no structure of wood and drapery, but the drawing-
j room of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,
j I a room which we had all left only two or three minutes previously.
11 So you see, Sir, that, however we may account for the spiritual theory,
)| the “ imposture ” hypothesis is certainly not tenable, since no young
(| lady medium could have easily carried about a man and a woman in
11 her pockets. The account of this seance has been published in the
)] Spiritualist newspaper. It is perfectly true that we did not all see it,
(,i but no more did the men who were with the Prophet Daniel see the
11 awful vision that he records in his book, though it is said that “ a great
11 fear fell upon them, and they fell to the earth.”
(j No Spiritualist (may I here mention that, if by Spiritualist is meant
, one who believes in a communion with the dead, then are we not Spirit-
/1 ualists, for our dead have certainly never returned to us), no Spirit-
(! ualist, I say, ever became a Spiritualist by study of the physical
| phenomena alone. A man’s belief is the one thing of importance to
j | him, and belief being a mysterious and subtle working of the mind, it
(] is not to be acquired through any sudden miracle—not even by the
11 resurrection of one from the dead. When people then point with a
[I supercilious air to such men as Mr. Alfred Wallace and Mr. William
| Howitt, and say, “Just look at the credulity of these men,” I would
j answer, “ Look at the humility of these, great men.”: How they must
I have laboured, how their brains must have toiled, before they stood in
(I the position in which they stand ! Why, it must have been far easier
j | for Mr. Wallace to accomplish the elaborate studies which have enabled
(j him to make such valuable contributions to the literature of the world,
) \ than to accept the apparently absurd theory which every child thinks
M it is able to refute, that invisible intelligences come in rapping at
} j tables; and when we see him, and others as courageous, standing
) 1 imperturbably forward at this crisis, and amid sneers and ridicule, and
)j the still more bitter humiliation of self-confessed impostures, bearing
(i witness to this truth of this day, as the early Christians bore witness
i! before the Pagan tribunals to the truth of their day (which also was a
[ i truth for all time), we feel that the morn has dawned when Spiritualism,
,1 soul of the world’s history, can safely be trusted to hold her own, not
only against those of the Protestant Church who, having lost the pearl,
| are still convulsively grasping the shell, but against all other mouldering
j ecclesiastical organisations that have fettered, while professing to
defend her:—
j • Yon nun an soli kein irdische Haus,
(j Kein Tempel mich verschliessen.
\ I Altar und Tempel stiirzen ein.
) I Ich will mieh besser wahlen.
i In k inen Mauern such mich mehr,
(I Such mich in schonen Seolen.
j Dr. Monck has been liberated on bail, two sureties at £200 each.
| The subscriptions paid by those who after this date join the National
| Association of Spiritualists, will clear the expenses of membership
I until the close of the year 1877. The National Association always lives
within its guaranteed income, and should be joined by all Spiritualists
! who favour united friendly action rather than disorganisation and dis¬
sension.
] Maskelyne and Cooke.—At a performance by these conjurors a few
I days ago, one of the audience, Mr. E. Kirwan Browne, B.A., formerly
I a clergyman of the Church of England, and an aged and infirm man,
publicly attempted to protest against the observations made by . Mr.
Maskelyne against Spiritualism, and was instantly seized with a stroke
j of paralysis. He was removed to St. George’s Hospital in a state of
j great danger. We have been informed that Mr. Browne is not a
j Spiritualist.
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—On Sunday last, Nov. 12th,
I Mr. J. J. Morse delivered two inspirational addresses in the Meyerbeer
Hall, Hardman-street, Liverpool. That in the morning was upon
“The Church of the Future ; ” owing to an alteration in the hour of
service and the unpropitious state of the weather, the attendance was
i but small. In the evening the subject of the address was “ God and
Immortality;” the hall was full, every seat being occupied. Mr.
Samuel Pride presided upon each occasion. The Liverpool Psycho-
I logical Society have entered into an engagement with Mr. Morse to
I address meetings in Liverpool once each month during 1877. On
i Sunday next Mr. Morse delivers an address at Doughty Hall, Bedford-
row, London, W.C., at seven in the evening.
Nov 17, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
187
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
At a seance held here this evening, with Mr. W. Eglinton,
medium, after sitting nearly an hour, in a dim light, for
writing manifestations, in the cabinet, with little. or no
result, it was suggested to break up and sit in darkness,
when, after a momentary pause, musical instruments were
played upon, and floated about in the room. Some of the
sitters were touched, apparently by a hand, at the same
moment that the objects were in motion, and while the hands
of all present were joined together. A spirit spoke in the
direct voice, and a'ring was placed over the hand of one of
the sitters, without any break having been made in the circle.
T. H. Edmands,,/^ t/ie Committee.
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, 27th October, 1876.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council of
the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, Mr. Alexander Calder, President, occu¬
pied the chair. The other members present were the Rev. W. W. New-
bould, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Miss Houghton, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mr. H. T. Humphreys (Barrister-at-law), Mrs. Wood, Mr. R. Pomeroy
Tredwen, Mr. R. Pearce, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, Miss Withall, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
More 11 Theobald, Mr. W. II. Coffin, Mr. C. C. Massey (Barrister-at-
law), Mr. J. J. Morse, and Mr. Glendinning.
The minutes of the last meeting were read, and signed by the
Chairman.
The following new members were then elected:—Mr. A. A. May,
Mrs. Beeby, Miss Collingwood, Mr. Durrant, Mr. E. A. Tietkins, Mr.
J. Cain, Mr. Thomas Delves, Mr. W. H. Sykes, Mr. J. F. Bates, Mr.
E. H. Yalter, and Mrs. Cogman.
Captain R. F. Barton, the traveller, was elected an honorary member
of the Society, and it was resolved to ask Mr. A. R. Wallace to accept
the same position.
Mr. A. Joy moved that Mr. C, C. Massey be invited to become a vice-
president. •
Mr. Massey expressed the opinion that.the honour might be better
conferred upon some older and more experienced worker.
Various members strongly expressed the opinion that Mr. Massey
would most deservedly occupy the position offered to him, after which
he consented, and returned thanks.
Mr. Algernon Joy moved, and Mr. Morse seconded, that Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S., of Newcastle-on-Tyne, be invited to become a member
of the Council.
This was carried unanimously.
An application from Miss Kislingbury for an assistant, on the ground
that her work as secretary had, with the growth of the Association,
become too heavy, was referred to the House, Library, and Offices
Committees.
Mr. Morse announced a contribution from Mr. W. Hunter, of Gates¬
head,'of £5 towards the Guarantee Fund, and of £l from Mr. Arthur
Maltby towards the same object.
The thanks of the Council were returned for the same.
Thanks were returned to Mr. Martheze, Mr. Markley, and the
Baroness Guldenstubbe, for various presentations of books to the
library.
The Secretary announced that any payment made by Spiritualists
who joined the Association after the present date, would cover the ex¬
penses of their membership until the end of the year 1877.'
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald announced that the Scientific Research
Committee postponed its report, as its experiments were not yet con¬
cluded.
The Secretary reported that Mr. Blackburn’s new series of seances
had been commenced by the holding of one, and that others were about
to follow.
THE LEGAL RESPONSIBILITIES CONNECTED WITH MEDIUMSHIP.
In the absence of Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. R.! Pearce moved that the
Council should consider its relationship to paid mediums, and take
legal advice thereupon. As public persecution of mediums had com¬
menced, he thought that the Council should ascertain its own position
in relation to the employment of them, both for its own sake and for
that of smaller societies. , -
Mr. Morse seconded the motion.
Mr. C. C. Massey said that the position of the Association could
not be touched, and that the position of paid mediums, in regard to
the law, would soon be cleared up. Mediums could be attacked by
law in three ways : one was for obtaining money under false pretences,
but a prosecutor could rarely make a hit under that head, because he
would have to prove that he parted with his money in reliance upon
the assurances of a medium that he would be placed in communication
with his dead grandmother, or something of that sort. He would
have to swear that he believed the said statements. Paid mediums
could also be attacked under the Yagrant Act, and the decision in the
case of .Johnson v. Fenner would no doubt be made great use of in the
argument in the Slade case, which would shortly come before the
Court of Queen’s Bench. They could be attacked in a third way
under one of the old Witchcraft Acts, passed in the time of George II.,
rendering it penal to discover lost property. This Act, he thought,
would not touch the Association, and he did not think that it placed
a medium in danger ; at the same time they might go to the expense of
getting a first-class legal opinion on that head. He should like to see
a prosecution under the Act of George II., as it would be an open
j avowal of the intention of the prosecution to suppress scientific in¬
vestigation, and public indignation would be so roused that it would
I never allow such an obsolete law to continue in force. Under the
I Yagrant Act alone were mediums in danger, and the coming decision
of the Court of Queen’s Bench would determine that head of law
more authoritatively than .any counsel’s opinion. He therefore thought
that the Association had better wait.
The Secretary said that two communications had been received from
local societies asking questions on this point of law.
The Chairman thought that Mr. Tapp wished to raise the question,
“ Was it well for the Association to take money for seances f ” He did
not think that the Council had ever agreed that any money should be
| taken for seances, yet he had heard that in practice money had been
1 received.
I The Secretary replied that money was taken from members only.
The Chairman thought that the Council had never authorised such
a step. A member might be a black sheep and give trouble. They
must remember that Spiritualists prosecuted Dr. Monck at Hudders-
| field. .
i - Mr. Massey thought that if the Association sold tickets to all the
world there would be no danger, provided those tickets were sold in
good faith ; if there were any bad faith the responsibility rested with
i the medium.
] The Chairman remarked that M. Leymarie, an innocent man, had got
I into trouble in Paris for selling sham ghost photographs which he
i i believed to be genuine.
M Mr. Massey replied that M. Leymarie had been indicted for con-
!| spiracy; of course that might be done in England, hut it would he
\\ very hard to persuade a jury that Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, or any
[I such person, was a conspirator.
(j Mrs. Maltby knew some people who called themselves Spiritualists,
!| hut were not so in principle, and who would be likely to take occasion to
(| do harm to the movement from within.
|l Mr. Rogers asked if a medium stated to the company that he did not
> | guarantee what was the cause of anything they might witness, would
| j not that protect him at law ?
! | Mr. Massey said that if they could get a medium to say nothing at
II all about the manifestations, it would protect him greatly; hut he had
[i never yet met a medium who could hold his tongue to that extent.
\ | (Laughter.)
Mr. Humphreys wished that somebody would put the old Act of
11 George II. in force, because it would be such absolute evidence of
11 persecution.
On the amendment of Mr. Rogers, the whole question was referred
,| , to the Research Committee.
ij Mr. E. T. Bennett reported that it had been resolved to hold the
11 next National Conference of Spiritualists in London on the 8th and 9th
)j of February. The Conference Committee suggested that on one of the
j j mornings a public breakfast should be held.
11 It was resolved that the next soiree of the National Association
\! should be transformed into a special reception to Mrs. Kane, the
| widow of Dr. Kane, the Arctic explorer, and that her sister, Mrs.
(j Jencken (Kate Fox), and Mr. H. D. Jencken should be specially invited
(j to attend.
) j It was resolved that those subscribers to the permanent library who
j I were not members of the Association should be allowed the use of books
{| from the lending library.
jj THE PROSECUTION OF DR. MONO®.
j j Mr. J. J. Morse said that the Association had of late more or less
j! countenanced Dr. Slade, but in Huddersfield Dr. Monck had been
| j prosecuted, and he had not heard that the Association had taken any
j j steps in relation thereto. He wished to ask whether Dr. Monck had
j j ever made any representation to the Council about the Huddersfield
< j prosecution, or whether the Council had moved in the matter; he also
j j wished to know whether Dr. Monck had ever given a seance to the In-
) j vestigating Committee of the Association, or had been invited so to do,
j Mr. Morse added that there was a feeling in the North of England
jj in favour of mediums recognised by the National Association; such
jj mediums were looked up to with respect. He asked for his own
\ j information, as well as for that of others, what was their relationship
ji to Dr. Monck.
jj Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Chairman of the Scientific Research
j I Committee, said that Dr. Monck had been invited several times, both
j j by the Seance and Research Committees, to give seances, but he had
(j made no answers to the letters, except that on one occasion he thought
\ i that he sent a curt refusal.
jj The Secretary also reported that Dr. Monck had sent no answers to
(j two letters forwarded to him on the subject of seances. She had done
j j much work, in the shape of correspondence, for him at his request, in
jj connection with the St. Petersburg Committee, also with Spanish
< j Spiritualists ; hut, when he came to London afterwards, he never called
j i upon her in relation thereto. No communication had been sent by him
j j or his friends to the Association on the subject of his prosecution at
\ j Huddersfield.
j j Mr. Morse remarked that, from what had been said, it would be seen
j j that the National Association had nothing to do with Dr. Monck either
\ i in the one way or the other,
j j The proceedings then closed.
) 1 Wonderful physical manifestations are being obtained in private
j j circles, in the presence of two mediums, at South Shields.
-188
Nov. 17, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ORIGINAL RESEARCHES IN PSYCHOLOGY. . ||
at tc. v. ksMtUkS, v.G-.s. m
Continued from page: 147. 'jiv
Q.—You have now favoured us with an account of your entrance j|
into the other state, will you please to give us some account of your j j
experiences when there ?
A.—I remember wishing that my mother knew that the suffering
was all over, but, when I turned to tell her, I found myself in a strange
place, with an old man standing looking pityingly beside me. I said—\
“ I want to speak to my mother but he replied, “ Not now, come.”
So I followed him over hills, through valleys, the while drawing such j ■
breaths of pure air, that every draught I inhaled seemed to give me ] i
life, strength, and happiness. |1
We came to a city, a city not built with hands, and such as I cannot j (
■describe: it was the very perfection of the architect’s ideas. We j i
wandered through it, and I saw a group of men discussing some weighty I j
matter, and when I came nearer I recognised some of the grand old j|
heroes whom I had thought and spoken of with reverence during my j \
life, and I involuntarily bowed myself before them. I enjoyed some ||
exchange of words and ideas with them, and I found that they inhab- jfl
ated this beautiful place, not for the deeds for Which the world remem- i
bered them, but for the self-denial and self-sacrifice for which they ||
had received no thanks on earth. ||
After a while, my guide beckoned me to follow him again, and we | j
proceeded over more hills, fertile plains, and by streams sparkling as j
they: flowed through the rich verdure, and we came to another city, ] |
village (which you will), and there we saw hundreds of little children, j j
" This,” said my guide, “ is the children’s village, and these women are j j
the mothers who have left their own on earth, and who undertake the ] |
care of the little ones. You see how great the sympathy between them, j (
how fondly each loves the other. These children will grow in wisdom j
and understanding, and will take their places among men.” Then we j (
passed on, and.stood in a company of men, painters, writers, they had ] j
been, but these great masters of the earth, how low have they fallen | |
when compared with those who starved on earth for want of patronage, j j
We spoke-to all, and I recall with pleasure, how each had some kindly j j
word for the stranger. “ Where,” I asked my guide, “ are the philan- j)
thropists, those men whose names stand high for their works of charity.” | (
“ This way,” said my guide, so we turned and came lower, and lower, | j
and lower, and saw a great multitude of men listening to the teachings | j
of one who, when I came nearer, I recognised as one of England’s j|
greatest philanthropists, there continuing the work of raising those who i)
on earth had not tried to raise themselves. “There,” said my guide, ij
pointing out to my notice some of the multitude, “are your kings and
rulers, your statesmen, how low are they ; see there in the rank above j >
them are the poor, the beggar, who by reason of their greater aspira- | j
tion after good are higlier than kings or princes. There, again, are ij
those who were idiots and insane; these are among the most promising
of that vast multitude; see how eagerly they devour the knowledge jj
that was denied them on earth ; they come among us pure as the veriest ] (
infant.” v- ’ . i.j., ’ j)
Q.—We shall be glad if you will proceed with your description ? j J
A.—I would rather, now that T have introduced the subject, that you !
would ask what questions, yqu want information upon. This is a diffi- j j
cult subject to deal with, since I must use a metaphor all through, but j j
I keep to the truth in every particular. j
Q.—Have you and your companions in the spiritual world visible i
organised human bodies ? jj
A.—We have visible organised forms, but such forms as you in i|
your matei'ial form would not recognise. You see your friend and jl
know him to be your. friend ; so do we when we see the spirit of our j j
friend know him to be our friend, in the same manner that you recog- ] j
nise yourselves; yet, if you were to see us with your material eyes jj
you would not recognise us, I, can liken it only to this : the butterfly jj
would not recognise in the chrysalis a fellow creature. We do not see j j
the form but the spirit,:and recognise o\ir friend by it. \l
Q.—Are your organs of vision the same as ours, and do you see by j j
some kind of ether as we are supposed to do ? . j j
A.—It d oes - not require eyes to see, even on eai’th ; sight is inde- j j
pendent of the eye, even there, I believe. You can convey impres- jj
sions to the brain in many ways. Yes; we have organs answering the j
same purpose in every particular that you have, but as to the ether j j
particles, I cannot tell, I have never thought abont the matter, but I ! j
will inquire and tell you more. j j
Q.—Do you partake of food for the purpose of supplying the require- j j
ments of your spiritual bodies?. jj
A.—Do you give your brain food ? We feed our bodies on the same j j
food-as you do your brain. We. eat it if you will, digest it, and cast j j
away the more worthless. jf
Q.—Do you move rapidly from place to place, and how ? I j
A.—We move from place to place rapidly, or otherwise, by the mere j j
exercise of what you call will-power. We wish to be in a place, and, jj
if circumstances permit, Can be there with the wish. We, as it were, jj
rid ourselves of the encumbrance of the body, and can travel quicker j j
through space than electricity. • j j
Q.—Is there a heaven or a hell, or are there heavens, or hells, and do j j
those who leave this world go at once to either the one or the other; | j
if not, what is their state ? . ’ , l(
A.—I have never heard of the hell since coming here, but of heaven i j
I have, and that seems still above us. I tliiok that the real meaning pf j j
the word (hell) is, a pit or grave. If that is so, then I imagine that the j \
condition of some of the multitude I have mentioned may be the hell, j j
but I am not sure. - Mfiti’ j j
Q.—Have you anything in your sphere equivalent to our time, and jj
do you ever feel ennui or languor ? - . ij
A,—We have days, nights, and seasons, similar to your own. We
tire sometimes, but take rest, not in the same way as you, but in a way
well calculated to restore us.
Q.—What is your usual mode of social intercourse P
A.—We visit when we wish to interchange ideas, and get our friends
to visit tis. We spend much time in debating and organising, schemes
for raising the status of the lower in condition to Ourselves.
Q.—Have you any mode of worship, and, if so, what are your leading
forms of worship ?
A.—We have as many—no* almost as many—forms of worship as
yourselves. It is the employment of very many, but put to greater
use than on earth. By worshipping the Deity truly, we raise ourselves,
and to do so truly we must raise others; thus, by our own deeds,
crowning ourselves and benefiting others.
Q.—Do you meet with any beings designated angels 1 Have they
any direct relationship with mankind—i.e., were angels once men ?
A.—There are angels, but they belong to a yet higher sphere than I
have acquaintance With. They are sent at times with messages to us,
even as they have been to yourselves ; but, as to your question—were
they once men—I believe if they were they never lived on earth; at
least, such is the opinion of many here.
Q.—Will you please to inform us with what sciences and with what
languages you are acquainted, in order that we may ask questions in
relation to those subjects with which you are most familiar ?
A.—Acoustics, light, heat, magnetism, electricity, principally, but of
a few more ; but of languages I know but little more than English.
I certainly once knew German as well, but, during my illness, I let it
go down ; still I might be able to recollect it, if necessary.
HAKMOXICS.
Having asked the foregoing questions in relation to the condition
of the future life, I asked for an explanation of an answer to a previous
question on the harmonics of organ pipes, and received the following
reply:—
A.—I have misunderstood the precise meaning of the question, but
the arrangement is one I have no practical knowledge of, and only
speak from theoretical knowledge. First node in a stop-pipe occurs at
one-third from the inouth-piece. This I had not known, thinking it
one-third from the stop; but I find the fundamental sound is carried
from the mouth-piece to the stop and back again before the node is
formed. This alters the arrangements of the nodes I find.
I then asked still further to vary the subjects of inquiry.
OPTICS.
Q.—Will you please to inform us, as briefly as you feel disposed, the
difference between chromatic and spherical aberration ?
A.—By spherical aberration we mean the distortion of the figures or
objects looked at through a spherical lens, by chromatic, the ring of
colour round the object.
The next seance was devoted to music, and the following typical
questions and answers are quoted as illustrations of the examination.
MUSIC.
Q.—What is meant by enharmonic diesis 1
A.—When two or more sounds are given the waves carry the
sounds, and the waves impinging the one on the other cause a dis¬
turbance, and the reflected waves carrying on the disturbance cause
the diesis.
Q.—Please to inform us what is meant by a comma ?
A.— That cessation of all sound caused by the coincidence and inter¬
ference of the sound waves.
I select the following questions and answers from the records of some
of the subsequent seances. They will enable you to see how large a
field the inquiry covered, and how very improbable, if not impossible,
it is for one person of merely ordinary information and intelligence to
answer the whole of them, on subjects so diverse and unusual to an
ordinary mind.
THE ORGAN.
Q.—You said that vibrations of vox humana and cremona differed
from the trumpet and the oboe. Will you please to explain the differ-'
ence in the modes of vibration of these two classes of reeds 1
A ,.—In the vox humana the vibrations are much quicker, and con¬
sequently more harmonics are sounded, giving a clearer and more bell¬
like tone tb the sound. The trumpet is much slower than either the
cremona or hautboy ; fewer harmonics are sounded; thus, the tone is
graver, flatter, and of a purer sound.
OPTICS.
Q.—What is light 1
A.—Light, like sound and heat, is but a mode of motion, and is the
physical agent by which objects are made perceptible to the eye—brain
—through the organ of sight.
Q.—Is light itself visible 1
A.—No; it is only visible by being reflected.
THE EXE.
Q.—Will you please to inform us what membrane it is that covers
the vitreous humor, and whether it does anything more than merely
cover it 1
A.—The membrane does not cover the vitreous humor, it merely
divides it into separate cells, and is for the purpose of protecting the
humor from any accident.
If a blow decompose one part, the membrane intervening prevents
the others from suffering.
Q.—Is terrestrial science still a department of earnest inquiry by
Some of the inhabitants of the spiritual world ?
A.—It is so for a certain period, since we bring our likes and dis¬
likes with us ; after a while we turn, our attention to other objects.
With some this happens sooner than with others ?
Nov. 17, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
COLOUR AND OPTICS.
Q.—Into what colours does a prism divide the solar light ? i
A.—Sir David Brewster says three—blue, yellow, and red ; others j j
say seven—violet, indigo, blue, green, orange, yellow, red.
Q.—What is the law of reflection in optics ? * !1
A.—Do you mean the angle of reflection 1 If so, that is equal to the
angle of incidence, and in the same plane.
Q.—What is the law of refraction in reference to water, glass, and {
diamond? Which is greatest ? * I!
A.—The angle of refraction is on the same plane as the angle of 1
incidence, but on the opposite of the perpendicular. The index of j
refraction for water is 4-5 ; for glass, 4-2 ; for diamond, which is the t
highest refractive power of any known substance, 5-2.
Q.—How is a lens made achromatic ?
A.—By uniting a concavo-convex lens of flint glass to a plano-convex
one of crown glass. I think that is the arrangement, but am not j
certain. The crown glass, which is twice as dispersive as the flint, or j
vice versa, I don’t remember which, is arranged so that the colours of j
the fringes intercept one another, so that no particular dispersion is
visible. I think that is the arrangement.
Q.—Would the polarising angle of diamond be the same as the
polarising angle of glass ?
A.—I should think not, since the refracted angle of a ray incident
to a diamond would be much greater.
Q.—What, in your opinion, is colour ?
A.—The absorption and reflection of certain rays of light.
Q.—Is colour objective or subjective ?
A.—Subjective, of course, since it does not really exist.
ELECTRICITY.
Q.—What is meant by electrical induction ?
A.—One body becoming electrified by the influence Of an electrified
body at a distance. In this way, I take a cylindrical conductor and
insulate it; then I bring a body charged with, say, positive electricity, j
and place it near to the cylinder, the result will be the polarisation of j
the fluids in the cylinder, the negative electricity of the cylinder being j
attracted towards the charged body, the positive electricity being |
repelled to the opposite end of the cylinder. This is electrified by
induction or influence at a distance.
Q.—What substances are capable of receiving and retaining mag- l!
netism ?
A.—Iron, principally, in any condition ; steel can be magnetised,
though with difficulty, but the charge is more permanent.
Q.—What poles of a magnet attract each other, and what repel ?
A.—The following rule will answer all your queries, both in mag- |
netism and electricity—like poles repel, unlike poles attract.
HEAT.
Q;—What is heat ?
A.—A condition of matter, a state of tension if you will. It is by
some believed to be a substance called caloric, without weight, but
this has been proved fallacious.
Q.—Is increase of heat caused by atomic or molecular change in
bodies ? ^ ji
A.—By atomic in some cases,' by molecular in others ; in water, for |
instance, it is caused by the vibration of the molecules.
Q.—What fluids do not decrease in volume with every decrease of
temperature ?
A.—Well, the metal bismuth increases in volume with a decrease of j
temperature. Water, if cooled below freezing point and kept from |
solidifying, does not increase in volume until the temperature is con¬
siderably lowered.
Q.—What is radiant heat ?
A.—Heat given off1 from an invisible source J heat from a dark object.
Bor instance, I heat a piece of metal to redness, and it gives off luminous f
rays, but, on the metal cooling, it still gives off heat, although not j;
luminous.
Q.—What is specific heat ?
A.—The amount of. heat capable of being contained in a body.
Q.—What is latent heat ?
A.—Latent from the Latin {l lying hid.’’
Q.—What is the difference between the scales of Fahrenheit, Centi- i
grade, and Beaumer ? •
A.—Fahrenheit finds the freezing point at 32° ; Centigrade, at 0°; |
Beaumer, at I think'8° ; and' the boiling point is in Fahrenheit, I |
think 212°; Centigrade, 100°; Beaumer, I am not certain about. |
I never used his tables, though I believe they are most used in
Bussia.
Q.—What is the law of reflection in relation to heat ?
A.—The same laws that apply to light, in this respect, may be applied I
to heat.
Q.—Has glass or rock-salt the greater dispersive power for heat ? [,
I mean a prism of glass, and a prism of rock-salt.
A.—Glass being almost athermanous, it does not disperse the heat,
but rock-salt is the most diathermanous, and transmits all or nearly |(
all luminous and obscure heat rays. ji
Q.—If a block of ice be placed in a metal pan, and put upon a very i1
hot fire, and there melt, what would be the maximum heat of the |(
water from the ice, prior to the whole of the ice being melted ? ji
A.—The water would remain at 0° C. until the last paiticle of ice jj
disappears. If, however, you subjected the ice to a heat of only 1° C. i'
the water still remains at 0° C. UU melted. i
SOUND. ||
Q.—Why is it that sound travels more rapidly through dense media, !!
such as wood, when light does not travel more rapidly through dense ! i
media, such as glass ? j i
A.—For this reason, Sound, unlike light or heat, is generated in jj
the air particles. Light and heat in ether, although air absorbs the
heat and communicates it to surrounding objects.
The velocity of sound in wood depends entirely upon its molecular
structure. In pine wood, if a sound be generated at one end of a pole
or beam twenty feet long, it may be heard that instant at the opposite
end ; sound travelling along the fibre ten times more rapidly than in
air ; but, if placed across the fibre, or so that the sound is heard across
the fibre, it takes twice as long as in the air. . It depends on the
density and elasticity taken together of a medium how quickly sound
is propagated.
Q.—How are the various motions appreciated in the human ear,
when music from a large orchestra is being performed. I mean how
are they discriminated by the mind ?
A.—When a large orchestra is heard, of course, am immense number
of different sounds are produced, and as each pulse of sound falls
upon the ear in isochronous vibrations, the bones which stretch the
tympanum are drawn to their fullest extent, the malleus works with
exceeding rapidity, and the sound, of course, is conveyed with equal
rapidity to the tympanum, condensed by the canals, reverberated again,
and brought to a focus, as it were, on the cochlear nerve, the filaments
set in motion, each acting (as the fingers do on the wires of a harp) on
the different branches of the auditory nerve, and a sound produced in
the sensorium, or that sensation of feeling which all the senses are but
a modification of.
THE BRAIN.
Q.—To what part of the brain are the auditory nerves attached, t'.e.,
to what internal part the brain ?
A.—They are not attached directly to the brain at all, but indirectly
they are attached to the cerebellum. I am not very conversant with
the brain, but I do not think that any of the nerves are directly
attached to it, but to the medulla oblongata first, and thence to the
cerebellum. Am I right ?
At this seance, December 27th, 1875, our usual control intimated
that he had a medical friend with him, who was willing to answer
questions, and I at once asked a question not likely to be known to
any one but a student of anatomy.
Q.—How many coats has the brain, and what are their names ?
A.—The brain, according to some of your anatomists and phreno¬
logists, is a large flat cake, or thin substance, which, if spread out,
would cover a circular area many feet in circumference. It is, how¬
ever, so folded and doubled up as to fit into the comparatively small
space enclosed by the bones which form the skull or cranium, the con¬
volutions, or raised and depressed portions, fitting the bones to receive
it. The whole mass is enclosed in three membranes—the two first
called by the ancients “ the mothers,” from the supposition that in
them lay the seat of all the nervous tissue of the head. The outside
one is called the Dura Mater, or hard mother, it farming a protecting
covering for the brain from the hard portions of the bony cavity in
which it is enclosed. The second is called the Pia Mater, or kind
mother, because it dips into all the different folds and convolutions.
The third is called, from its resemblance to the web of the spider,
the arachnoid. It and the Pia Mater are for the purpose of convey¬
ing the blood from the arteries and veins that supply the brain with
nourishment.
Q.—Thanks. Which are the chief fissures of the brain ?
A.—The brain is divided, anatomically, into two portions, the
anterior and the posterior, though more properly into three—the
cerebrum, or larger brain ; the cerebellum, or lesser brain ; and the
medulla oblongata, the last being the commencement of the spinal
marrow.
Q.—Thanks. What fissures are in the cerebrum, and how are the
two sides of the cerebrum united ?
A.—The cerebrum, or brain proper, is divided into three fissures.
On each side the brain itself is a sort of re-duplication, each side
having lobes, fissures, hemispheres, fac-similes of the opposite, and is
divided into the right and left hemispheres of the cerebrum, right and
left hemispheres of the cerebellum, the anterior and posterior lobes of
the cerebrum, divided by the medulla oblongata, a funnel-shaped por¬
tion of the brain containing the lines or commisures, which are carried
from one side of the brain to the other, from right to left and from
left to right, the whole being carried through the whole of the brain
to the medulla oblongata. The brain itself may be likened to a tall
straight tree, with a large top, the spinal cord being the stem, and the
brain the top.
The same matter of which the brain is composed is carried through
the entire length of the spinal cord, each portion distinct and
separate.
The whole of the brain proper—the portion in the skull—is a
mass of fine nerves, thatj part called the cerebellum or posterior
part being composed of finer, softer, and more medullary matter than
that of the cerebrum. The nerves themselves are but branches or
off-shoots from the brain, as the branches of a tree are but off¬
shoots of the trunk, and supported and nourished by the sap within it.
Of the three different portions or columns contained in the spinal
cord, there are three different branches or nerves, each confining itself
to the work it is best adapted for. These three columns are called the
anterior, posterior, and lateral—the anterior giving birth to those nerves-
of motific power; the posterior the sensific nerves, or nerves of sensa¬
tion ; the lateral, the respiratory nerves, or nerves of respiration.
Each of these branches (for each nerve has its fellow) rises in the
base of brain, and are called the encephalic nerves, far distinction.
I am now speaking of the first thirteen pairs of nerves. The anato¬
mists now generally agree that none of the nerves directly arise from
the brain, but from its base, the medulla oblongata, cither before it
leaves the skull or directly after.
It is not generally known, I believe, that each of the fine cords.
190
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nqv. 17, 1876.
known as nerves, are but tubes for the purpose of conveying the mes¬
meric fluid generated by the different gases of which the body is the
repository. This fluid, or life itself, is carried through the nerves in
much the same manner as the blood through the arteries and veins, but
of that hereafter.
Each so-called nerve is a bundle of minute fibres, so small, in some
cases, as to be invisible with the most powerful microscope, yet each
maintaining its own individuality, as it were, to the most minute point.
The eleventh pair, or, as it is known, the pneumo-gastric nerves, are
formed by the ganglion at the neck and shoulders, and branch off in
numerous filaments; to supply those stomachic organs other than the
heart and lungs. The sensific and motific are connected at certain
points, to form what are called regular nerves, which supply the whole
of the body at the same time with the powers of motion and sensation;
at the. same time the admirable system for the simplification of the
machinery of the human frame.
As there are so many parts of the brain to be considered, and, to do
so effectually, it is necessary to go minutely into every particular, my
friend proposes to take each part separately—the composition of the
brain at one time, the membranes at another, the circulation at another.
The circulation of the brain is admirably adapted for the special func¬
tions it has to perform, its arteries being doubled and turned in such a
manner as to prevent the blood rushing too rapidly through them, as
would be the case when we consider the short distance from the grand
trunk artery of the head. The convolutions taken by the arteries of
the brain more than double the distance the blood has to travel from
the heart.
These arteries take a square shape, known as the circle of Willis
(named after my friend). The principal of these arteries are the in¬
ternal carotids.
I think he proposes not to say any more now, but to do as I said, take
each particular part separately. He says he cannot get it all into as
small space as he expected.
PERSONAL.
Q.—Are we to understand that your present prompter is Willis, the
great anatomist ? Excuse us asking the question.
A.—He told me his name used to be Willis, but who he was, or his
occupation on earth, I am ignorant. He says, however, he used to be
interested in anatomy, and just said when I-wrote “the circle of
Willis ’’—“ Named after myself.’’
HEAT.
Q.—Do the specific heats and atomic weights of one metal bear any
relation to the specific heats and atomic weights of other metals ; and
if so, what relation ?
A.—The specific heat of a metal varies inversely as the atomic weight
and density increase, but of the exact proportions I am ignorant.
Q.—If the temperature of boiling water under a pressure of 760
millimetres be 100 deg. 0., what is the temperature of its vapour?
I A.—The temperature of steam exactly equals the temperature of the
water, at any pressure.
| CONCLUDING REMARKS.
The questions and answers I have this evening placed before you are
but a mere fragment of those that I have asked and had answered by
the controls of this medium. - It will be perceived by the most super¬
ficial hearer that the answers to the questions have all been the product
of a mind or of minds'familiarly acquainted with the numerous and
difficult topics introduced.
The answers are not mere bald general replies to ordinary questions,
but they cover the questions and extend much beyond them, indicating
a familiar acquaintance with all the subjects that were under con¬
sideration. : '
I have not only received answers to questions in various departments
of science through the ’ instrumentality of this medium, but I have also
had written through her hand elaborate and able essays on heat, light,
vegetable physiology, electricity, magnetism, human anatomy, &c., none
of which would do discredit as the carefully-prepared essays of a clever
student of science; and yet all of them were written, without halt or
hesitation, at the impulse of the moment, and apparently without pre¬
paration of any kind. I may state that, during the whole of the seances,
the lady medium was, to all appearance, in her normal condition. She
was not in a trance or abnormal state of any kind. She conversed with
us, and replied to casual questions in an ordinary manner, the only con¬
trol exercised ofer her being that her hand automatically wrote replies
such as I have placed before you. On being questioned as to her sensa¬
tions, she stated that she felt a numbness from the elbow to the hand,
and that that was the only peculiar sensation of which she was con¬
scious. At each seaitce we endeavoured, by avoiding discussion and
miscellaneous talking; to keep the mind of the medium as passive as
possible.
I know not how those facts are to be met except by a blank denial of
their truthfulness. Yet, in confirmation of them, I have the evi¬
dence of all who were present, six or seven in number. I have the
original M S. records of all the seances, containing the questions and
answers that were written in the presence of those witnesses. I have a
verbatim copy of those records made immediately after their production,
and if testimony to extraordinary facts be of any value whatever, this
evidence ought to satisfy any reasonable mind. The original M.S. and
the verbatim copy of the records of the stances may be seen, and the
names and addresses of the witnesses can be obtained by any respect¬
able representative inquirer.
I have purposely refrained from introducing the name and address of
the lady medium^ because I have ho wish that she, a sensitive and
shrinking woman, should be howled round by the wolves of controversy
and prejudice, who slander and malign all persons who happen to
possess peculiar psychological organisations, and in whose presence
there occur marvellous psychical and physical phenomena.
If the phenomena, a record of which I have imperfectly placed before
you, be genuine, they open up a field of inquiry of the most momentous
character. On the assumption of their truth, we appear to be in the
presence of beings who have passed through the probation of this life,
aiid have entered upon another condition of being, carrying with them
their likes and dislikes, their knowledge and their ignorance.
Professor Huxley, in a somewhat supercilious letter addressed to the
committee of the London Dialectical Society, states that, “ The only
good that I can see in a demonstration of the truth of Spiritualism is
to furnish an additional argument against suicide. Better live a cross¬
ing-sweeper than die and be made to talk twaddle by a * medium,’ hired
at a guinea a seance^ This statement would be perfectly justifiable if
all alleged spiritual communications resembled many with which investi¬
gators into these occult phenomena are familiar, and which are in the
last degree frivolous and rudimentary. Are not the vast majority of
those who pass over to the other life intellectually rudimentary ? and
did not Carlyle say there are “ one thousand millions of inhabitants on
earth—mostly fools ” ? But what will Professor Huxley say in reference
to the answers to questions I have just had the pleasure of submitting
to your hearing! They surely are not the “ twaddle of curates and old
wives,’’ and probably the learned Professor will now, on reflection and
additional experience, perceive that the investigation is not of that
childish and useless character with which he previously credited it.
The facts for which I at present vouch are that the questions were,
for the most part, originated and asked by myself, that no previous hint
was given to the medium as to the character of the questions to be
asked, that no one but myself knew what questions were to be asked,
that many of the questions rose and were asked at the impulse of the
moment without preparation of any kind, that the answers were visibly
and immediately written before us by the hand of the medium, that it
was utterly impossible for the medium, by any known natural means,-
to be prompted and directed as to the answers required by the questions
submitted for replies, and that the medium is entirely unpaid for her
services, never having been offered and never having received a single
penny remuneration for the hundreds of hours which she has so self-
denyingly devoted to enable investigators to examine the marvellous
phenomena that occur through her mediumship.
I reserve my opinion as to the theory by which these and other extra¬
ordinary phenomena which I have witnessed may be most satisfactorily,
accounted for, and I commend the facts adduced to the careful con¬
sideration of thoughtful, intelligent, and, above all, to candid minds.
AID FOE MES. COGMAN.
The following is a list of subscriptions received by Mrs. Maltby, of
41, Marylebone-road, on behalf of Mrs. Cogman, who wishes to tender
her sincere thanks to all the friends who have so kindly assisted her,
and will be glad of further remittances :—
Alex. Calder
Algernon Joy
Charles Blackburn
Colonel Greek .
G. P. Allan
“ A Eegistered Letter
Mr. Bird m .
J. Wason ;.
By Mr. Janerson
Mr. Crowcher
C. K. and K. .
E. P. Ashton ;
J. J. Craig .
Alex. Tod .
E. Smith .
G. Chambers
Mr. Hay ■ •.
Mr. Cowper
J. J Morse
By A. Joy .
“A Mite” .
J.M. . .. .
H. C., by T. Blyton
A Stranger . .
J. Henon .'
Charles Gray
From friends in small sums
Mrs. Olive’s Seance
Collection at Doughty Hall
Eeceived at Mr. Burns’s
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Warr
A. Ackerman
J. Swinburne
Mr. Barber . .
£3 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
110
£24 17 4
4 10 8
0 10 0
0 2 6
0 5 0
0 10
£30 6 6
On Sunday evening last, Mr. W. H. Lambelle, of South Shields, gave
a trance address at Weir’s-court, Neweastle-on-Tyne, at the close of
which several questions were put by the audience, and answered in a
satisfactory manner. Mr. J. T. Ehodes presided. Mr. Mould pro¬
posed and Mr. Millar seconded a vote of thanks to the medium for his
services, which- was unanimously accorded.
191
Nov. 17, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
DR. SLADE AT A TEST SEANCE. | |
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, BOOT. SCI., LATE SECRETARY TO THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL |}i
SOCIETY OP GREAT BRITAIN. |(j
On Saturday, the 9th September, I was shown certain j|j
articles in the Saturday Review and the Examiner containing |(|
remarks affecting the personal character of Dr. Slade. On j j
the same evening Dr. Slade spontaneously stated that he | |
was willing to dispense with his customary practice of j j
refusing to submit to every test which the ingenuity or im- j j
potence of strangers might devise, and wished me alone to | |
have a seance with him to observe what might take place j
under a more cautious and sceptical method-of investigation j
than I either had adopted or would meo proprio motu adopt ]
towards him. It was impossible not to recognise the I
thorough honesty and sincerity of spirit which led Dr. j
Slade to make this offer. j
On Sunday, 10th inst., after mass, I visited Dr. Slade at j
9.40 a.m.', and found him in good health and spirits, j
Stepping into the back drawing-room, the table, which was |
covered, had the cloth removed, and the cloth as well as the j
table were most minutely inspected by me, as had been the j
carpet on a previous occasion. Dr. Slade sat at the west |
side of the table, and I at the south, I do not think it i
necessary in any way further to describe the table than by |
saying it is of good solid ash, and the carpentry with which !
it is made is good. The “ strut,” or “ bracket,” which may |
be used to support either of the flaps of the table is prey !
cisely similar to that in a deal .table which I have in m- j
own possession. There is, in fact, nothing abnormal or I
unusual about this arrangement, which I only mention jj
because attention had been drawn to it with a view to infer I
that there was something suspicious. The chairs around |
the table (which do not belong to Dr. Slade) are ordinary !
cane-bottom chairs, are not connected with any mechanism j
either under the carpet, to the ceiling, or in any way deserv- |
ing of notice. The chair which I will call A was placed by j
me after inspection at the north-east corner of the table, its I
front face being diagonal with the north side of the table, j
Another chair (B) was placed in full view of myself, parallel j
with the eastern face of the table. ; M
Dr. Slade had on French pumps, and his dress was u of the [J
period.” I had on heavy side-spring walking boots. Dr. |
Slade with a view to show that it was perfectly impossible !|
for him to produce any motion of, or under the table by his |
feet, attempted to sit sideways with one of his feet on a j]
chair moved to the south-west corner of the table between us. jj
Failing in being able to sit comfortably this way, he placed h
his feet at a distance of about six inches (minimum distance) l
from the south-west corner of the table. I took off my own jj
A Chair. C Dr. Slade. E Armchair.
B Chair. D Myself. F Boots.
G Point to which hoot was thrown.
boots and placed them behind my chair at the spot marked
F where they could not be touched by anyone but myself,
and only by my right hand. A sofa was behind me, and the
boots were partially underneath this sofa. I then placed my
feet on those of Dr. Slade, and rendered any action on the
part of his feet impossible. The slate was then held by him
under the table, as already described by Serjeant Cox, and
some twenty others, with perfect accuracy. I do not think
it necessary to say more than that on the present occasion my
attention was chiefly directed to constater the fact that both
sides of the slate were carefully examined by me and ascer¬
tained not to have any prepared writing or marking. Dr.
Slade permitted me to hold the slate in my own hands and
turn either side up. ■. The pencil crumb was soon heard writ¬
ing, and the following message produced on the upper sur¬
face of the slate :
Dear Sir,—I present my compliments and wish yon to say Wm.
Trippen [or Tuppen] came, and wishes his friends to know he can
return. I left earth Aug. 16th, at No. 1, Thomas’s Cottage, Bourne-
walk, Butler, age 68. Wm. T.
The meaning of the above is perfectly unintelligible to
me. While it was being written, Dr. Slade was carrying on
a conversation on another subject.
We then proceeded with the seance.
Whilst waiting for the next manifestation, I noticed a
condition which I had not previously observed with Dr. Slade.
His hands, being on both mine in the centre of the table, the
muscles of my forearms were seized with a convulsive motion,
and the waves of this motion, according to my impression,
proceeded from my elbows to the finger tips, and not the
converse, as some persons might be led to expect. The sen¬
sation was unlike that which would have been produced by an
electric battery under the table, and was more like what I
should imagine was the sensation of the aura epileptica.
Of course I have not the slightest pretensions to the abnormal
condition which is called, for reasons unknown to me,
“ mediumistic,” a badly-constructed word, which has appa¬
rently been coined on as absurd a model as u Ritualistic.”
The chair marked A then rose to a distance of nine inches
from the ground, preserving its parallelism with the floor,
and fell with a violent blow. The arm-chair, E, in the
corner of the room, was slid on its castors in the direction of
the dotted line in the sketch. My right boot was violently
thrown over my head in the air to the point marked Gr. I
requested that the other boot should be placed gently on the
chair B, but before the words were out of my mouth, it was.
thrown on the table, striking the hands of Dr. Slade and
myself, and producing slight excoriation in his case, and
ecchymosis in mine. During all this time his hands
were on mine on the table, and my feet on his.
No possible motion of any part of his body could
have produced any of these effects. The distance between’
the leg of the chair, A, and his toe, if the latter had been
outstretched, was found to be sixteen inches. The distance
between him in his chair and the spot where I had placed
the boots was three feet four inches, and that from the spot
where the boots were to the spot where one of them fell was-
seven feet three inches, a curved trajectory being added, so
as to allow for my height in the chair. I should estimate
the line of trajectory at twelve feet. The table was after¬
wards raised, and thrown in a reversed position on my head.
In the evening I had another seance with Dr. Slade, at
which was present a celebrated anatomist, who was satisfied
of the bond jide character of the manifestations. I was
struck with the identity in so many cases of the phenomena^
Both at this and at the previous seance short messages were
written by a long pencil—six inches in length—held about
nine inches under the table. The public may be amused
with the statement that such pencils are invariably rejected
by Dr. Slade’s controls.
Marriage.—Oh Tuesday, Nov. 14th, at St. Peter’s Church, De Beau-
voir-town, N., by the Rev. William Stafford Finch, M.A., Edward
Walter Wallis, second son of Mr. E. Wallis, of Twickenham, to Minnie
Harriet Eagar, youngest daughter of the late William Eagar, Esq.,
solicitor, London.
Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s.—On Wednesday evening, last week,
a reception to Spiritualistic and other friends was given by Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London. Among
those present were Lady Milford, Mr. Eyre, Mr. and Mrs. Ulick Burke,.
Lady Helena Newenham, Mrs. Wardlaw, Mr. Limond Strong, The
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Mrs. Davies, The Rev. W. Stainton-
Moses, The Rev. W. W. Newbould, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Shower*'
Miss Showers, Mr. Algernon Joy, Dr. and Mrs. Wyld, Dr. He'uryr
Slade, Miss Slade, Miss Simmons, Mr. Wedgwood, Mr. Bennet, Mr».
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Miss Fitz-Gerald, Miss Douglas, Mr. Massey.
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. Percival, Mr. Buchanan, Miss Katherine
Poyntz, Miss Ottley, Miss Emmet, Mr. Moeller, Mr. J. T. Peele, R.A.,
Mr. and Mrs. Ward. In the course of the evening Mr. Ward played
with much ability on the organ. Miss Katherine Poyntz also contri¬
buted much to the enjoyahility of the evening by her singing; her voice
is a clear high soprano.
192
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 17, 1876.
©orresponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposite
to those of this journal and, its readers.]
A SEANCE" WITH HE. SLADE.
Sm,—I wrote a letter to the Daily Neios, to say that, although Mr.
Maskelyne had succeeded in performing very exactly the cabinet mani¬
festations of the Davenports, he had entirely failed to explain, as he
pretends to do, how the slate writing through Dr. Slade is produced.
Of course, it is the veriest farce to be told that the long messages are
always written before the slate is put in position, because anyone can
take, as I did, a new one with him, and hear the writing being done
while both the slate and Dr. Slade’s hands are in full view on the top of
the table. I regret that my communication was not deemed worthy of
admission in that journal, because Mr. Maskelyne’s audience seem quite
satisfied with his explanation how the writing is done, and it is a pity
that the fallacy of his assertions cannot be exposed in a public news¬
paper.
Oh my double slate there came at Dr. Slade’s writing in Greek,
Arabic, and English. I had asked for a communication in French, as I
wished to present the slate to the Spiritual Society in Paris. From
what I saw of Dr. Slade’s mediumship, I do not believe that there is
any necessity for him to put the slate under the table, as it is quite
likely that he has only to resist the influence which urges him to do so,
and to put a double slate at once ow the table. Had this been done on
the occasion of the visit of his accusers, there would have been no
colour for their accusation, and he would have been spared much trouble
and annoyance. On the other hand, it may be said that the conduct of
these sceptical gentlemen has unintentionally done much injury to their
terrible creed, by publicly ventilating the interesting question of direct
spirit writing; at the same time they are public benefactors in causing
Dr. Slade to remain longer in England than he had intended. More
time is thus given for inquirers to assure themselves of the genuineness
of this manifestation; they have afterwards to account for the pheno'
menon as they best can. J. H. Gledstanes.
Junior Carlton Club.
THE LATE MR. COGMAN.
Sir,—Mr. Cogman’s self-sacrificing labours among the poorest classes
in the East of London, to whom he brought the blessings of Spiritualism
in their highest and purest form, did not bring him in contact with, and
scarcely within the ken of, many even moderately well-to-do people.
Those who have the most reason to bless his memory are obviously not
in a position to do much, if anything, for his widow, who, owing to his
having lately given himself up entirely to his labour of love, is left
unprovided for.
I would, therefore, appeal to your readers not to let the mere fact that
he was personally unknown to them prevent them from subscribing to
the fund now being raised by Mrs. Maltby for his widow. A. Joy.
69, Great Russell-street, 12th November, 1876.
professional mediums.
Sir,—During the discussion which followed Serjeant Cox’s eloquent
address to the Psychological Society on Thursday last, a speaker made
some unfavourable comments on professional mediumship, and expressed
a hope that persons gifted with this power in private life would be so
disinterested as to place themselves at the service of the students of
psychology, all motive for forcing manifestations being thus put out of
the question.
Without having recourse to the stock argument that “ the labourer is
worthy of his hire,’’ I should like to submit to the learned psychologists
a few points which I, who am only a Spiritualist, have observed in the
course of six years’ industrious pursuit of psychological phenomena,
and in a close acquaintance with various psychics, commonly called
mediums.
There can be no doubt that mediumship, like genius, though at its
best when working spontaneously,, requires cultivation and training;
development of the particular power is as necessary in the one case as
in the other, and is often far more tedious and trying to the patience in
the case of a medium than in that of an artist. For the artist has at
least some enjoyment of his studies, though they be severe; whereas
the medium is generally, at least half the time, unconscious, and the
less he knows about his mediumship, the better it works. And yet how
few artists will consent to submit to the strict and thorough training of
the schools, unless with a view to making a profession of their art,
and reaping some portion of their reward in golden guineas. It
would be undoubtedly better for art, if all artists worked
gratuitously, from pure love of the beautiful; if they never painted
portraits for money, were not paid for their poems or compositions, if all
the best paintings were placed in public galleries without fee or reward
to the worker, and if the opera and theatre were free to all comers.
Nevertheless there would be much dilettantism, perhaps even more
than at present, much jealousy of rivals, much confusion generally.
The finest outbursts of genius will never come to order; nevertheless
all talent must be trained if it is to be made available for useful pur¬
poses, and those who are to benefit by it must pay for it.
The same argument applies to the medium. In placing his services
at the disposal of the public he has many unpleasantnesses to encounter,
even supposing he is not cited before a police magistrate and committed
to gaol, and it is scarcely to be expected that any gentleman or lady will
choose to be exposed to suspicious and injurious remarks, and placed in
an uncomfortable position, literally and figuratively, when there is no
compensation to the individual.
Again, the learned psychologists are mistaken in supposing that a
private medium would have no motive for trickery. Spiritualists know
M|' that as many stories are told and believed (though I should be sorry to
i)i vouch for them)' about the arts and devices of private as of professional
•])| mediums; their motives are probably the desire to please the friends
](| who come to see their wonderful gifts; to outshine the feats of some
nj nascent rival; "to get this or that manifestation. Professional mediums,
|)i on the other hand, who have established their reputation, become
jl| indifferent to praise or blame, and learn to take what comes, anything
jjfii or nothing, without troubling themselves, knowing that payment is
!$!| secured to them, and that they are not expected to be answerable for
j(j failures. On the whole, I have found that private mediums are the
]) | more impatient of negative results, and show very little willingness to
||j submit to stringent tests, which are always, to a certain extent, an
i (i infringement of honour.
j !| What we really want—in my humble opinion, which is based upon
jn experience—is, first, well-developed, powerful mediumship, which has
m not been abused nor prematurely exhausted, and which the medium
| > | knows how to guard and promote ; second, a public who has first learned
;) | something by private experience or by reading, and who comes to the
||| seance room partly as a learner, instead of wholly as a critic ; who gives
j')| the medium fair play, and does not condemn everything he does not
■In understand as-trickery; who, by patience and steady observation, fos-
Ki ters the manifestations, instead of killing them; and who has learned
j; | to find that what he once took for fraudulent movements on the part of
|n the medium, are often only the birth-throes of manifestations that come
| | eventually, by gradual development, to grand and perfect expression.
:!|! ^ ' ' Emily Kislingbury.
|) | 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
iTHE EAST END SPIRITUAL MEETINGS.
Sir,—Having been desired by many friends to endeavour to carry on
| the meetings so ably conducted by our friend and fellow-worker, Mr.
Cogman, and having the promise of assistance by my spirit-guides, I
! have taken the house lately occupied by him, for the term of three
years, and intend reopening the rooms on Sunday, Nov. 19th, with a
tea-meeting, to be followed by a conference, at which Mr. J. Burns will
preside, when the best mode of continuing the meetings will be dis¬
cussed. I shall be glad to welcome the supporters of Mr. Cogman and
all friends who are interested in our cause. Tea at five o’clock ; tickets
one shilling. Conference free. E. W. Wallis.
15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End-road, E.
THE PRICE OF COALS.
The above subject may be deemed to be excessively unspiritual,
except from the lips of an orthodox preacher dealing with the question
of eternal and high-temperature punishment, but as the knowledge of
science possessed by the average Englishman is so feeble that he sends
three-quarters of the heat produced by his coals up the chimney, and
uses but one quarter for the warming of the room, Spiritualists at all
events should be warned not to adopt such a method of procedure. The
air of London is laden with smoke which might have been consumed in
properly constructed grates, and volumes of carbonic oxide produced
from wasted coal as well as from that utilised, poison the air of towns
and tend to injure the health of human beings. As it is a fact that most
of the heat produced in household grates is wasted and carried off by
the chimney, improved grates should be brought into use. Thus may the
high price of coal be made to in no way affect the householder, but prove
a benefit to the nation, for the less rapidly the coal supplies of Great
Britain are exhausted, the longer will this nation sustain its pre¬
eminence. Uninformed people often speak of the certainty of finding a
substitute for coal when our mines are exhausted, but only those who
have studied the subject know how impossible this seems. When the
coal is gone the energies of the winds and tides, and of the direct action
of the solar rays will remain, but so far as fuel is concerned few sub¬
stances will be left on the earth which have not already been “ burnt ”
—that is to say, “ united with oxygen.” The meagre supplies of sul¬
phur and the few combustibles other than coal, found in the earth, will
be of little value as sources of warmth or motive power.
Those who wish to avoid the waste of heat, for which they pay so
dearly, cannot do better than to apply for information about improved
grates to the Society of Arts, which some time since made a searching
inquiry into the merits of those devised by different makers. We may
further add that a well-known Spiritualist, Mr. R. Barber, of Parkfield-
K| street, Islington, has manufactured an improved grate, by means of
|J| which he claims to be able to save a considerable amount of fuel. We
Is| have not seen the grate, nor compared it with those of other makers,
m but if it is constructed upon sound principles there would of course be a
!(| tendency amongst Spiritualists to give his invention the preference. In
iji economising fuel a great deal depends upon the shape of the upper part
j; i of the grate, which ought to take somewhat of the form of half a conical
|<j| reflector; with.its apex close to the burning surface of the coal; the
|| chimney orifice should be small, and well behind the top of the fire, not
Hj directly over it.
01 Mrs. Burke’s boarding house for Spiritualists, at 8, Upper Bedford-
!<| place, London, has been a great success up to the present time, and.
||| Dr. Slade and his party have kindly done much to aid her in its esta-
j j blishment since their arrival in England.
jji ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
lh Several communications have been sent us from America about the Slade
|(j case ; but as the writers, have, for the most part, only sent, us their names
||| and addresses for private information, their anonymous communications
j|| have not been published. Writers in England publicly authenticate im-
fli jportant statements with their names and addresses. In all cases we give
precedence to those communications which are not anonymous.
Nov. 17, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given, os.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERti ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
i for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says :—‘ ‘Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not he taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions. ” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the op'nion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powera in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. 3d.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. ‘
POEMS BY ACHSA W- SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s,
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PfiYSIOAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. ed..
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T; (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER • MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. Gd. •
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allah Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Gd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tnke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among ttie
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Itev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODEKN SPIBlTUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Bev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
' CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Bemarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. RUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO-
BIOGBAPHY OF THE WOBLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. Gs.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTEE. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Becords of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism. and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewitli. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. Gd.) 4s.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Beformer.
The Thinker.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." *• <7-
Nature’s Divine Bevelations
The Physician. Vol. I. (Jt. Harmonia
~ ” i „ II.
„ in.
„ IV. „ .
„ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . .... .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy .of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Beligion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
7 G
3 G
6 0
7 6
7 6
5 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
*. d.
Oriental Beligtons (Johnson) . . 1 . . . 24 0
Beligions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SpIritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . .. .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing In¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Bomantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 ,G
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and-Histories of the Zulus,
by the Bev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter-
. preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert R. GOllygr, M.D. . r 2 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Bev. John Paul, B. A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , i o
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A, E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, is. «
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas P.
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Gd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.,
MESMERISM AND-ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuma
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle, jid.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Gd.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. IL Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Gd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr E. T.
Hallock 2s.
ir
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 17, 1876,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM. PSYCHOLOG Y
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
B&lism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
. LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtraj ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND Rich, London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an!mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
•phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Another Work on Occult Spiritism,
By the Author of
“ART MAGIC.’*
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten begs to announce that she has
been privileged to prepare for the Press another work by the
.Author of Art Magic, entitled
G-HOST-LAND ;
Or,
Researches into the Mysteries of Occult Spiritism.
Illustrated in a series of autobiographical papers, with
extracts from the records of
MAGICAL SEANCES, &C., &C.
Translated and edited by Emma Hardinoe Britten.
This magnificent and thrilling record of spiritual experiences
was prepared for and commenced in the Western Star some
four years ago. Since the suspension of that periodical—
necessitated by the Boston fires—Mrs. Hardinge Britten has
been repeatedly solicited to publish the admired and fasci¬
nating “ Ghost Land ’’ papers in a connected series. The great
demand for another book from the author of Art Magic, the
earnest desire of the subscribers to that celebrated work to
-know more about its author, and the interest which exists at
the present hour in philosophical and progressive views of
Spiritualism, combine to induce the Editor to put forth the
present highly instructive and wonderful volume, with the
special view of meeting the above requirements.
Price 12s. Orders may be sent to W. H. Harrison,*38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.
Now Ready.
STRAY THOUGHTS ON MANY THEMES.
A Selection from J. T. Markley's Poems, originally con¬
tributed to the Nottingham Daily Journal, the Neueastle Critic,
the New Yorlc Christian Leader, the Peterborough, Advertiser, and
other high-class publications. Post free, 18 stamps; from the
Author, 8, Crawthorn-street, Peterboruogh.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
T IBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling-
M A ton. Weekly Seances, &e.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu’ation is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Privatef Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke.
By Royal Letters Patept.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Laee or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-gquare, S.W.
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALISE” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EYIDENOE ON BOTH SIDES,
HIGH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; ’Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A, Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2Jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Just published, a New Song.
T3 EMEMBRANCE (embossed title), 4s. in A
JLlU flat for contralto or baritone, and in C for soprano or
tenor. Woids by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redo was (second
edition), each 3s., by the tame composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music, 9, Cambridge-terrace, Railton-road, Heme-hill, S.E.
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
V ice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse, 1
Mr. Thomas WiJks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, DAlston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, discus
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct oiseances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
. Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarteily 3s, All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of Jj2 2s.
Cju SpmtaJbt Ibluspjpr,
Estaelished in 1S69.
pHARGE FOR ‘ ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty woids, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
.morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
IS1 o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 11, AveMaria lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. AlLen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. TiNEL as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTOR1UM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARC. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TBEHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by. Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no R’loek (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Psrtrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-slreet, is sold for the
benefit oj Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
89, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
MR. T. P. BARKAS, F.G.S.,
Begs to announce that he proposes to deliver a series of SIX
POPULAE SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room,
Nelson-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing shortly.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to he taken
at 7.30.
LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject—“The Scientific Principles involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE IT.—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air.”
LECTURE III.—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside. Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars.”
LEOTUIiE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its History and Philosophy.”
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“Heat: its Modern Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will he
answered.
The Lectures will be illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake,"49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the course; Unreserved Seats, Is. Cd. the course.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ‘
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
QUEBEC HALL,
25, Great Quebec Street, Marylebone Road.
October 5th, 1876.
At the Committee Meeting of the above Association, held in
their Hall on Thursday, the 5'h iust., it was proposed, “That
at the next quarterly meeting of the Association to be held on
Sunday, November the 26 th, a Conference of metropolitan
societies he convened for the purpose of co-operation and
expressing fraternal greetings.” In order that the proceedings
may be conducted in a systematic manner, a meeting will be
held on Thursday, the 19th ihst., at the above hall, .at 7 p.m.
for 8 pm. All Spiritualists interested are cordially invited to
be present; those unable to do so by kindly communicating
with the secretaries their opinion will be put before the
meeting.
W. O. DRAKE, & G. F. TILBY, Hon. Secs.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
