[Registered as a Newsparij?,-
$}[f) JOUf^K^1! Otf f^YC&O^OGUCS^
CIj^ #lb^si |tito$ppr jdrtttefceb; SfiJfiimlbm in gntain.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. (opposite the British Museum), anti ii, Ave
Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. ROME: The Inter¬
national Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Rearney-street.
No. 189.—-(VOL. VIII.—No. 14.) LONDON : FRIDAY^ APRIL 7j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Development of NewManifestations in Spiritualism... 157
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries   157
Medinmship in the Fairfax Family: —The First Symptoms
of Trance and Clairvoyance—How did the Idea of the
Intervention of the Devil first enter the Mind of the
Sufferer? — Guardian Spirits — A Spectre Horse—
Haunted by Night—How the Idea of Charms was
first put into the Head of the Sensitive—Was this a
Physical Manifestation ?—The Effect of a Charmed
Penny upon Mr. Fish—More Trouble with the Charmed
Money—How the Idea of Witchcraft was first put Into
the Head of the Sensitive ...   158
Provincial News:—Liverpool, The Psychological Society—
Newcastle-on-Tyne, A Test Materialisation Seance at
Weir's-court; Miss Wood’s Mediumship 161
The Result of a University Boat-Race Foretold by Spirits 162
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism
Mrs. Woodforde on Mediumship—^Manifestations Wit¬
nessed in the Presence of Messrs. Bastian, Colman, and
Eglinton — The Early Experiences of Mr. John Rouse—
Violent Physical Manifestations—The Intelligence con¬
nected with the Manifestations—Lost Leases of Estates
Recovered by Spirit Agency—The Human “ Double ”
—The Nature of the Communicating Spirits — Rein¬
carnation       162
Victims Bewitched by the Aid of Effigies    165
Correspondence :—Publius Syrus—Ministering Spirits—
Reincarnation—The Power of Spirits over Matter-
Writing Mediumship—Dr. Wyld on the Philosophy of
Spiritualism — The Scattergood Testimonial — Mr.
Blackburn's Seances     ... ... ... 165
Mr. Colman’s Mediumship 167
Materialism and Modern Spiritualism. No. I. By St.
George W. Stock, M.A. (Oxon)  168
Answers to Correspondents  168
Paragiaphs:—Spiritualism in Blackfriars, 161; The Li¬
brary of the National Association of Spiritualists,
164 ; A Puzzle for the Doctors, 167; Reception at Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory’s, 167; Spirit Drapery  168
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
Br EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somuamhulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Coitentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just be«n issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s 6d. each, at The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALT DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.   
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, I franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PUBLIC MEETINGS.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton, Weekly Seances, &o.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a m.;
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman's
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
Birmingham.—it is proposed to hold a
CONFERENCE and TEA-PARTY at the Athenamm
on Easter Sunday. Meetings to commence at 11 am, 3.0 and
7 p.m. The Spiritualists of Worcester, Coventry, Leamington,
Wolverhampton, Walsall, Dudley, Bromsgrove, and any ether
places in the Midland district, are invited to attend, with the
view of arranging a system of periodic propaganda meetings
at their several localities, including camp meetings during
summer. Those persons who intend to be present are requested
to communicate with the undersigned, in order that arrange¬
ments maybe made for dining (with brethi en here), and for
the tea-party —Robert Harper, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
SOUTH LONDON ASSOCIATION OP
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. List of meetings
during the week: Sunday, Trance or other Address at Seven;
Monday, Discussion and Conversational Meeting at Eight;
Tuesday, Developing Circle, at Eight, members only ; Thurs¬
day, Seance at Eight, members on1y; Friday, Seance at Eight,
members only; Saturday, Seance at Eight, non-members, 3d.
Members Is. per quarler, and 2d. on attending a Seance. Any
further information can be obtained at the rooms on any
evening. J. Burton, Hon. Secretary.
CONJURING ENTERTAINMENT.
dr* Sgintalist Jl^hrsppr.
^Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for biudiug.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-strect,
London; and orders intended for the Friday's issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
he addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will he posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor's Office. 38, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C City Publishing Office, E. \V. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London. E.C.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Pails, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr,
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
• It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an<mal
magnetism, wlich has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, bnt we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.G. .  
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to ihe investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, and
contributed to by several Gem. an and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipslc: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Litege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbui'y, W.O.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
T> EFLEXIONEN AUS DER GEISTER-
XV WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Jot efstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
X GEORGE SEXTON, LL D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, Loudon-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN,
PSYCHOPATHIC HEALER,
37, HART STREET, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON, W.O.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in
accordance with patient's means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appoictnient.
"OIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
X) 29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated pei iods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the"minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALIStf EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London Sim^kin, Marshall & Co.
MISS LIZZIE ANDERSON S AMERICAN
MYSTERIES, Queen's Rooms, Argyll-street Oxford-
citcus, daily at 3 and 8. Miss Anderson suhmi s daily as
above to investigators the most powerful physical phenomena
ever witnessed, together with illustrations of clairvoyance,
materialisations, levitations, and animal developments. Admis¬
sion, 5s., 3s., 2s., and Is.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scuntific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
L’brary is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
MRS. WOODFORDE begs to announce her
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE to 8, Milton-street, Dorset-
squat e (near Baker-street Station), where she will he glad to
welcome, as of old, all friends and visitors. Physical seances
with two first-class mediums, will be held as usual, every Thurs¬
day and Saturday evenings. Usual manifestations—direct
voice, direct writing, and materialisations (if conditions serve)
of the friends of visitors, also a new materialised musical in¬
strument, played (it is said by Blondel) with remarkable skill
in accompaniment of the musical box. Especial invitations
will be issued for the Saturday evenings, and an introduction
from some well-known Spiritualist is requested f- r the Thurs¬
day evenings. All friends who have been in the habit of
attending Mrs. Woodforde’s seances will always be welcome.
Admission, 5s.
Mrs. Woodfordo is also open to engagements for private
physical seances to be held at her own residence; a few days
previous notice must be given. Names will be received for a
daylight seance to he held shortly. With pleasant rooms
open to her visitors, and every effort made to obtain superior
manifestations, Mrs. Woodforde hopes to afford those who
will honour her with their presence, some most agreeable and
sa'isfact.ory seances.
TWO DAYLIGHT SEANCES through the
mediumship of Mr. W. Eglinton, will be given at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 8, Milton-street, N.W. (a few
doors from Marylebone-road), on Wednesdays the 5th and 12th
of April. These being the only Seances of the kind Mr. Eglin¬
ton can give previous to his departure for the provinces, he
begs that any friends desirous of attending them will send in
their names to Mrs. Woodforde not later than the 3rd or 10th
of April. Seance will begin punctually at 3 p m. Fee, 5s.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
THE SPIRITUALIST
April 7, 1876
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OB’
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
’oleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
.Everitt, Thomas, Liliau-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orvvell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.H.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-sqnare, S.W.
Jencken, Henry L)., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin K., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road,Finchley-road, N.AV.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, AV. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton. Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Rcigate.
Binney, F. A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-strect, Liverpool.
Chitmery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, AV.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Kussell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Aranbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, AAr.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H-, 7, Oberstein-road, Now AA^andsworth, S.AAr.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AAL
Fltton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.AV.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, AVilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hiU, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hiiide, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, AV.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, AVest-cnd, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, AV.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AV.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AAr.
Lariiont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.AV.
Mawson, AVm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AV. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. AVarwick-eottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworlhy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gatc,Regent’s
Park., N.AV.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. AV. F., J. House, AVoolwich-coinmon.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Nonvocd.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morel!, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
AA’edgwood, Hensleigb, 31, Queen Aune-st., Cavendish-square, AV.
AVhite, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S AV., and3, Altenburg-terrace.Clapham Junction, S.AV.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
AVithall, Miss II.. 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AAr.
Withall, XL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AAr.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.AV.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London,AV.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AAr.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile do Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Nieder AA’alluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Aron Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von \ray, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. AVittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mfne. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
airs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Slylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal,
airs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude ATolstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne,
ai. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, ViaFatebeneFratelli,AIilan.
Dr. aiaxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
AV. Lindesay Richardson, ai.D., care of air W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. AVittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Lcipsic.
AV. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, aielbourne, Alctorla,
Australia.
ai. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., ai.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., ai.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, aiount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
airs. J. ai. Spear, 2210, aiount Vernon-street, Phlladelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, aiontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. do Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels,
ai. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., ai.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, aiontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
aidlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, AVaitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. AV. Day, Esq., 9, Alontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
airs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnctique. Secretary—AI. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, AL Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, St. Alary-
street, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research: and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was fonned in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Aliss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
GiHiat Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburu-street.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., AI.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Aiusworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lament, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Air. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &o
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
SQUARB, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Art, magic, mundane, sub-mun-
DaNE, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and pay¬
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending books to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author’s behalf, does not feel jus.itted
in sending out such a rare and valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the book sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic} &c., 206, West 38th-
street, New York, America.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only.; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 8, Milton-street, Dorset-square.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, hell on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 8, Milton-street,
Dorset-square (a few doors from Marylebone-road).
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MRS. MALTBY, Magnetic Healer, 26,
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.O. Mrs. Maltby
receives the patients of Dr. Mack, and others wishing to con¬
sult her, daily between the hours of eleven and five.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within threa miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Fall instructions In Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
-VTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
-i-Y Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (60 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, the Physical
Medium being about to make a tour in the Provinces,
desires that all London engagements with him should be made
as soon as possible, as he will probably leave London by the
end of May. He is at liberty to receive engagements during
the day or evening at private houses. Address, Mr. Willie
Eglinton, bt. James's House, Walthamstow.
CLAIRVOYANCE, and HEALING by SPIRIT
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-known Spirit-
Medium, on Thursday (other days by appointment only), from
two to four p.m. for Private Consultation, and four to five for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Belmont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven p.m., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive's Healing Powers
are now well established, and testified toby many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within t
miles, two guineas inclusive.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own hemes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for Cd.
Psychopathic institute for the Cure
of Diseases, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74,
Qaeen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. MR. WALTER ISAAC,
Healing Medium, in attendance daily from 11 a.m. to 4 pm.
Patients treated successfully at a distance. Terms per arrange¬
ment.—J. Coates, Principal.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. Cd.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other'
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lauo, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
% IJitpcujii xA ip J)j|xrgq$$ tA i^ nnt ^i|^$ tl ppitjtlmtlbttt*
Volume £Jiqht. Number Fourteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 7th, 1870.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW MANIFESTATIONS IN
SPIRITUALISM. |
The sitters in circles have considerable power over the |
kind of manifestations which are developed—a circumstance I)
which is not generally known. If a physical medium oh- ;
tains five or six different kinds of manifestations in their |
incipient stages, one of these orders of manifestations could !
be specially developed if the sitters expressed strong wishes i
to that effect, and in the exceptional development of the one, ;)
most of the others would either fall off or remain at a stand- |;
still. The spirits are usually anxious to please the sitters, j
and to carry out their wishes, but more especially do they :)
act in accordance with the desire of the medium. If the ;;
sitters desire a particular manifestation, and the medium |
does not do so, very little headway will be made in that !)
particular phase. When the news of the obtaining of |
materialised faces in America first reached England, there |j
was a great desire to obtain that particular class of mani- |
festation here, and it was found that those mediums who |
obtained spirit hands and spirit voices could by sitting for i)
the purpose obtain faces, the one manifestation being but a 11
further development of the other. The reason that there is i
now so much sameness in the physical manifestations ||
throughout England is this : rising mediums have heard of |
the manifestations of those who have gone before them, and j
which the public throng to see, consequently their own i
spirits follow the example set before them; but Spirit-
ualists having become tired of the common manifestations of j
fiddle-flying, and the materialisation of hands and faces in j
dark cabinets, it is high time that something fresh were de- ! j
veloped. There is a great want at the present time in the move- | j
ment of mediumship like that possessed by Mrs. Mary Mar- I
shall, whocould obtain strong manifestations in broad daylight, I
under the most adverse conditions. Although manifestations | <
are usually stronger in the dark there is nothing like good ; j
light seances for beginners. At present in England we have I ]
nothing in the spiritual movement to equal the light seances i i
once given by Mrs. Marshall. Another kind of manifestation | ]
which might be developed with advantage is that in which j |
spirits transport small objects long distances, as in the i
example where they carried letters to and fro between I ]
Baron Kirkup and his daughter, faster than a railway train j'
could travel. The advantage of developing this manifesta- j i
tion would be that it would tend more than anything else to | J
give the death-blow to the psychic force and unconscious |j
cerebration theories ; moreover it might prove of consider- j <
able practical utility. As yet the distance to which the jj
spirits can carry objects between circles has not been found []
out. If they can carry small objects or letters with unpre- I <
cedented velocity between England and America, the fact I!
could be verified without any difficulty, and would give not 11
a little impetus to the progress of the spiritual movement, f
The way to obtain such manifestations, which once began in
England, but were not encouraged, is for two physical j
mediums who chance to agree with each other to sit together |
for a time until they are en rapport. Then let the spirits i'
practise carrying small objects from the one to the other, ;
gradually increasing the distance between the places where
the circles are held. There is no difficulty in getting further |
developments of any manifestation which has once been pre- j |
sented at a circle in its incipient stage, if the sitters and the j <
medium express their wish to have more of that particular j!
phenomenon, and if endeavours are now made to bring new j
manifestations into the movement, the mediums through p
whom they come will meet with full appreciation of their i
services on the part of the Spiritual public. '
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
Spiritualism in France seems to have lost none of its
activity, notwithstanding that one of its leaders is under the
ban of the law. The Revue Spirite for March opens with an
article of some seven pages, by M. Leymarie, on the text
with which it closes: Un esprit qui dort dans lapierre, rive
dans Vanimal, et s'cveille dans Vhomrne (Spirit slumbers in
the stone, dreams in the animal, and awakens in man). The
same journal contains a translation of portions of the article
on the test experiments with the spirit photographer, J. J.
Hartmann, from the Banner of Light; also an account of
the prize medal awards by the British National Association
of Spiritualists, in which the writer dwells with some pride
on the fact that the gold medal was won by the champion of
French Spiritism, Miss Anna Blackwell, not forgetting to
eulogise the impartiality of the English critics in “ crown¬
ing a work of merit, apart from prejudice.” Considerable
space is given to an extract from Sir Walter Scott’s work,
Demonology and Witchcraft.
The case of a young servant-girl at a farm near Chartres,
who appears to be a strong physical medium, has attracted
the attention of the local journals. Not only are knives and
forks said to dance in her presence, but even bricks and tiles
fall from roof and walls when she stands near to either.
A letter, signed Alphonse Denne, written from Guanajuato,
Mexico, gives the details, from the writer’s diary, of the
materialisation of the first “full form” in that country.
After one hundred and eighty sittings, extending over more
than a whole year—sittings at first held infrequently, and
latterly almost daily, the spirit-form, recognised as the
daughter of the writer, walked out of the cabinet. Her first
words were : “ How sad it is to return to this world !”
The Revue also gives the programme of a society lately
founded at Florence, in Italy, under the name of “ The
Pneumatologico-psychological Academy,” the object of
which is to study “ certain marvellous manifestations of in¬
visible intelligences, obtained by means of some material
instrument, organic or inorganic.” Correspondents will be
appointed in every province of Italy as representatives of the
academy, whose duty it will be to promote its objects in
their various districts. Ladies will be admitted as members
on the same terms as gentlemen. The president is Baron
Michele Guitera de Bozzi, and the secretary, M. Francesco
G. A. Campana.
Psychic Studies of the last three months have contained,
in addition to the articles by Professor Butlerof, which
have appeared in full in The Spiritualist, accounts by other
writers of their experiences with Mr. Williams in Holland
and elsewhere; of particular value is the testimony of
M. Aksakof to the much-disputed ring-test, which that
gentleman obtained under stringent conditions the last night
of his stay in England. M. Leon Favre-Clavairoz, French
Consul at Trieste, also contributes an account of physical
manifestations through an Italian medium, produced by a
spirit called Alphonso.
Professor Hoffmann, of Wurzburg University, writes a
series of critical articles on Materialism and Spiritualism,
having reference to a work by Dr. H. Duhring, in which Mr.
A. R. Wallace is attacked for his advocacy of Spiritualism.
A paper by the late Dr. M. Funk, who passed away from earth
last year in Illinois, U.S., relates how the writer investi¬
gated certain strange phenomena in a haunted house in New
Orleans.
The able manner in which Psychic Studies is conducted,
the liberality of its editor, M. Aksakof, and the industry of
the sub-editor, M. Constantin Wittig, make it a matter of
deep regret that the journal will probably, after this year,
158
THE SPIRITUALIST
April 7, 1876,
cease to exist, unless substantial help is forthcoming in aid |
of the burden of expense, which has hitherto been borne by
M. Aksakof alone. He, a Russian nobleman, resident in
Russia, has provided Germany, the home of the Spiritualist |
philosophers, with all the best literature of modern Spirit- j
ualism in excellent translations, besides a monthly magazine |
with current news of the movement.
Spiritualism in Belgium is doing well. The new Flemish-
French journal De Rots is well adapted for circulation
among all classes of readers in a country of two languages,
and the Messenger of Liege keeps up its high tone as a |
critical and somewhat polemic advocate of the cause. In j
Spain the literature of Spiritualism is on the increase. The
Law of Love, La Ley de Amor, is the title of a new monthly
published at Merida. Four Spiritualistic periodicals, we
learn from Dr. Ditson’s pleasing article in the Banner of j
Light, exist and flourish in Mexico, and two in South
America, at Montevideo and Chili, and at least as many in |
Spain itself. All of these represent Spiritism, or the Kar- |
deckian doctrines.
MEDIUMSHIP IN THE FAIRFAX FAMILY.
Ancient records in relation to . witchcraft are full of j
descriptions of misunderstood mesmeric and medial pheno- j
mena, and as ignorance is ever the cause of human misery, I
this particular variety of i norance often resulted in the |
destruction of helpless old women by fire. A Discourse \
on Witchcraft, as it was acted in the Family of Mr. Edward j
Fairfax, of Fuystone, in the County of York, in the year I
1621, of which discourse a very few copies have been printed |
and distributed by Lord Houghton, has been lent us, with !
permission to publish extracts therefrom. The original j
narrative was written by Edward Fairfax, of Fuystone, a |
relative of Sir Thomas Fairfax, who was afterwards created j
Lord Fairfax and Baron of Cameron by King Charles.
Edward Fairfax was a gentleman of letters, and among -!
other books wrote a history of Edward, the Black Prince.
The narrative now before us, is a minute diary of what took |
place in his own family under his own eyes, and commences j
in this wise :—
THE FIRST SYMPTOMS OF TRANCE AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
Imprimis, Upon Sunday, October 28, 1621, my eldest |
daughter—Helen Fairfax—was sent into the parlour in my |
house at Newhall, a little before supper-time, to see that
the fire did no hurt, and there she stayed for a while, when
William Fairfax, my eldest son, came into the place, and j
found her laid along upon the floor in a deadly trance. !j
Whereupon he presently came forth of the house to me as j1
I was walking abroad, and certified me of the accident, Ij
which moved me with all haste to go to her; where finding jj
her in such case as he said, we took her up, but could not jj
recover her, therefore we called her mother and the household, !
amongst whom the fear and trouble was great: the sudden- j
ness of the misfortune, and the fear of her loss, amazed such j
as were interested in her love. Nothing judged available j
was omitted to reduce her to some feeling, but our labour |
was unprofitable for divers hours; so that some gave her j
for dead; yet, at last, she respired, and shortly after spake, j
Then we found, by her words, her imagination was that she j
was in the church, at Leeds, hearing a sermon made by Mr. i
Cook, the preacher, and she told every one that spake to j
her; the next morning she was perfectly well again, but for !
some few days after she had many the like trances, and in j
them supposed that she saw and talked with her brethren j
and sisters, who were dead long before. We observed her j
speeches to them, which, upon her coming to herself, she j
affirmed to be true, and added other things which she I
averred to have seen and heard in those trances: but we H
did not write those words, holding them not material, but jj
proceeding rather from distemper than discretion; for in j)
those fits she had perfect symptoms of the disease called K
u the mother,” to which, for a good time, we attributed all jj
that she did or said, yet had she never before any touch of i
that or any other disease,
HOW DID THE IDEA OF THE INTERVENTION OF THE DEVIL FIRST ENTER THE
MIND OF THE SUFFERER?
Thus, at the outset, she displayed nothing but clairvoy¬
ance and the power of seeing spirits. Then, in all proba¬
bility, those around her began to talk about witchcraft,
about “ cats sucking the breath,” about the Devil and his
deceiving powers, and other superstitions; and their ideas,
by a mesmeric process, now partially understood, and
reducible even to experiment, became actual realities
to her consciousness, just as French Spiritualists obtain
any amount of “reincarnation” teachings out of their
mediums:—
Item, About Saturday, the 3rd of November, near break
of day, in the morning, as she lay upon a pallet in my
lodgings, she cried out suddenly, “ Oh! I am poisoned.”
Her mother asked her “ With what?” She answered, “ A
white cat hath been long upon me, and drawn my breath,
and hath left in my mouth and throat so filthy a smell that
it doth poison me.” We endeavoured to persuade she did
but dream, and encouraged her not to let any fearful conceit
trouble her, but she persevered to affirm that it was true,
and no dream: and we did observe after this blowing in her
mouth by the cat, in many of her trances she voided much
blood at her mouth.
Item, Upon Wednesday, the 14th of November, she saw a
black dog by her bedside, and after she had a little sleep,
she had an apparition of one like a young gentleman, very
brave, his apparel all laid with gold lace, a hat with a golden
band, and a ruff in fashion. He did salute her with the
same compliment as she said Sir Ferdinand Fairfax useth
when he cometh to the house, and saluteth her mother.
The young man told her that he came to be a suitor unto her,
if she were minded to marry and could like of him. She
answered that she did not like of him, and asked him what
he was. He said he was a prince, and would make her
Queen of England and of all the world if she would go with
him. She refused, and said, “ In the name of God, what
art thou ?” He presently did forbid her to name God; to
which she replied, “ Thou art no man if thou canst not
abide the name of God; but if thou be a man, come near,
let me feel thee ; ” which he would not do, but said, “ It is
no matter for feeling.” She proceeded, “ If thou wert a
man thou wouldst not deny to be felt; but thou art the
Devil, and art but a shadow.” Then he went away, and did
return quickly with a fair woman in his company, richly
attired, who, he said, was his wife, and fairer by much than
she was: 11 For she,” he said, “ was but thus and so in
respect of her; yet, if she would go with him, he would
leave the other and take her.” But she refused to go with
him; then he departed, and left his wife for a small time,
but returned and fetched her presently. A little after he
appeared again, but not so brave as before, and offered her
a knife, moving her therewith to kill herself. She told him
she would not. Then he offered her a rope, which she also
refused. Then he advised her to take a pin out of her
clothes, and to put it in her mouth. She answered, “ I have
no pins in my clothes, they are sewed; ” he said, “ Yes, she
had a great pin in her petticoat, which would serve her turn.”
She denied that she had any such, but afterwards she showed
us the said pin, when she recovered her perfect senses.
Further, he persuaded her to go to the beck to fetch water.
She said, “ No, my father and mother will not let me fetch
in water ; shall I go to the beck for thee to put me into it ?
or will I kill myself to go with thee, thinkest thou ? If my
father or my brother William come thou darest not tarry.”
He said, “ Thy father is nought; I am not afraid of any
man.” She replied, “ I will send for Mr. Cook.” He said,
“ Cook is a lying villain.” At those words Mr. Cook, to her
seeming, came in at the parlour door in his gown, which he
put back (as she after reported), and she saw his little
breeches under it. She began to say, “ You are welcome,
Mr. Cook ; take a stool and sit down. I am so troubled, as
passeth with one here; see! he standeth back now, and
trembleth. He offered me a knife and a rope, &c.” And so
she told to Mr. Cook all that had passed before. Then Mr.
Cook took a parchment book from under his arm and began
to read prayers, and bid her not to be afraid, but put her
April 7, 1876.
THE
trust in God. At that instant my son took the Bible, and
sat down and read in the Psalms, and she said, “ Hark !
Mr. Cook readeth at which instant the tempter went away
and left her ; bub the other, like Mr. Cook, did exhort her
to have a good heart, and to trust in God, and said that he
would now depart, but he would come again to-morrow, or
when she sent for him. So he went away, and she came
presently to herself. Upon our demands, what troubled her,
she reported all this, not knowing that we had heard or seen
any part thereof. But when we perceived by her speeches
the manner of this great temptation, we rejoiced in prayer
for her, and noted all she said.
GUARDIAN SPIRITS.
And here I cannot but enter into a controversy with my
own thoughts what this comforter was, who, in shape of Mr.
Cook, seemed so to pray for her, and comfort her and in¬
struct her. If an evil spirit, then Satan is against himself,
and so his kingdom divided. If a good, then it must be the
good angel appointed for her particular guard : which foolish
opinion of Papistry is far from me, although some of our
late divines give it approbation, neither am I so arrogant to
think it an angel from heaven employed for her defence, for
this time only; but of this more hereafter.
A SPECTRE HORSE.
Item.—Upon Thursday, the 15th of November, 1621,
in the kitchen she fell asleep, and then into a trance, in
which the tempter again appeared, and she began to say,
“ Out, Satan; avoid- Satan but he moved her to go
into the chambers, and there to leap out, or to go into
the back court, and there he would meet her; but she
refused all and said, u Shall I go to the mill for thee to
put me into the water?” Then he offered her a dagger,
which she would not take. That done he presented
her with a red horse, furnished with green saddle and trap¬
pings, and prayed her to get upon him and ride, and he
would carry her with him. She answered, u Dost thou carry
folk to hell on horseback ? Well, let them ride to hell that
will; for I will go on foot to heaven.” Then he cut off the
horse’s head, and she asked if it was usual to ride on a horse
without a head. He replied that he could set it on again if
she were pleased to ride. After these words she named
God, whereunto he answered that there was no God but he.
She asked what he was God of. He answered, “ God of
faith.” She replied, a Thou art the Devil, and comest to
deceive me in pretty shapes, but now I see thou art the same
thou art; what was that which came to me, like my brother
Thomas, all in gold lace ? He said that it was one of his
angels. She demanded, “ Hast thou angels ” ? He
answered, u Yea, ten thousand.” She proceeded, “ Thou art
the Devil, and thy pride was such that thou wouldst have
been equal with God. Thou wert a bright angel, as thy
name shows, for thou wast called Lucifer. Thou didst
rebel against God, therefore was a hell made for thee and
for all thy partakers, and for all thy pride and bravery; yet
thou art, and shall for ever be, in torment.” Then he turned
into the shape of a beast with many horns. She said, “ Oh,
what terrible horns hast thou ! ” Then was he like a calf,
to which she said, (i Now great calf thou thinkest, with thy
ill-favoured shapes, to slay me, but thou canst not; for as
God would not let thee deceive me with thy pretty shapes, so
thou canst not slay me with thy ill-favoured ones, for thou
art still but the same.” Presently he was like a very little
dog, and desired her to open her mouth, and let him come
into her body, and then he would rule all the world. She
said, “ No ! so thou didst deceive John Winn at Leeds, but
now thou art a dog if I had a staff I could kill thee.” Lastly,
he filled the kitchen with fire. She said, “ Wouldst thou
slay me with thy fire ? Thou canst not, for I neither care
for thee nor thy fire. Thou canst not slay me, for God doth
and ever will defend me.” So he promised to come to her
again in bed, and departed. She came to herself, and her
memory was perfect, and confirmed all that she had spoken
in that trance and the words of the spirit also, which by her
answers we had collected and set down, though we heard not
his words at all; yet her relation of the devil’s words and
actions approved them to be as we had conceived and set
down which rule served, so as we erred not in any of the fol¬
lowing collections.
150
ill is quite plain that this exceedingly oracular and pre-
i cocious child had these speeches made for her by the by¬
standers, or that the recorder, having no knowledge of short-
| hand, has improved upon the original utterances; hence
| that, instead of taking what they could get, they had filled
| the mind of a juvenile mesmeric sensitive with the idea that
i she was dealing with the devil, and the subjective impression
i became an objective reality.
HAUNTED BY NIGHT.
Item.—On Friday, the 6th of November, she did sit up
very late, being not willing to go to bed, as it seemed, be¬
ll cause the spirit said he would come to her in bed that night.
I Her brother William, and Elizabeth Smith, a servant, did
watch with her ; but at last she grew heavy with sleep, and
went to bed, and was presently in a trance, which, being
perceived, I arose and came to her, whereupon she was
instantly well, and told that a red cat laid upon her, but
now she was gone; so she rested quietly till the morning.
J The day following the spirit appeared to her, and told her
| that he came to her in the night. She said, ff< Yea, but you
I durst not tarry ; but I will lie this night with my father and
| mother, and thou darest not come.” Upon these speeches
| her mother took her to bed with her that night, where she
i rested quietly till daylight in the morning. Then she said
! that there was a black dog came to the bedside, and leaped
I upon the bed. Her mother, in some fear started out of the
11 bed, and I tried if I could feel the dog with my hand, but
IM felt nothing; and the wench said, <( Nay, the dog is leaped
down and gone,” so she arose, and was in no trance at that
| time.
HOW THE IDEA OF CHARMS WAS FIRST PUT INTO THE HEAD OF THE SENSITIVE.
Item.—Upon Friday, November 23rd, 1621, I was in the
kitchen with many of my family, and there some speeches
by chance were moved of charms and lookers (as our rude
people call them), and the names of many were reckoned up
| who were thought to be skilful therein; and it was said that
such as go to these charmers carry and give them a single
j penny. These words gave occasion to my wife to remember
and tell it, that she had a single penny given her amongst
other money by Margaret Wait, sen., which she paid for
corn. The woman desired her to keep the penny, for she
| would come for it again, which she did accordingly a few
days after, and demanded it, affirming that she would not
I lack it for anything, for it kept her from dreaming. She
)| said that it had a hole in it by which she hung it about her
| neck in a thread: at which words such as were present
\\ laughed heartily, especially William Fish, then my servant,
I with whom the woman was very angry for laughing, and
I parted in anger without her penny.
jj WAS THIS A PHYSICAL MANIFESTATION?
Upon this relation I wished my wife to fetch the penny
m she had; but she gave no great respect to what had been
I I said till I urged her thereto, saying I would burn the penny;
| j for, by the woman’s confession, it had been put to evil use,
i ! who said she had been much troubled with dreams since she
| ! wanted it, and therefore I supposed it had been charmed,
jli but she found delay, until at last I told her that Wait’s wife
jj! was indeed a witch (as she was reputed), then if we went
j|j not presently, the penny would begone. She answered it
j j could not, for it was safe locked up in the desk in the
j|j parlour. Myself not being so satisfied, I arose, and with
Ii my wife went to the desk, which was locked. We opened
j it, and sought the penny therein with all diligence, and left
not a paper unopened, nor any place unsought, but the
j penny was not to be found, whereat we were a little amazed,
j for the place where the penny lay was upon a shelf in
j the desk, easy to be seen, and the desk was securely locked
j when we came to it. That day, in the kitchen, my
j daughter saw the similitude of a man come in at the top
of the chimney, and presently fell in a trance. The man
| told her that he had mended the daughter of John
! Jeffray. and that he would mend her if she would. To
| whom she said, “Hast thou mended Jeffray’s daughter?
j it is like enough, for they run to witches and wizards for
j remedy, but we will go to none such.” He said, “ Why wilt
1 not thou be amended ? I will amend thee if thou wilt, for
SPIRITUALIST
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Apeil 7, 1876,
160
she is whole.” She answered, “I will none of thy amends. ! j
God shall amend me when it pleaseth him, and none other ; i j
but where is the penny?” He answered, It is gone.” j j
She said, “Thou didst take it away.” Then he changed j j
into other shapes, but she closed her eyes, which till then j j
were open. He bade her look at him. She answered, ff-I I j
will not, for thou dost turn thyself into some ill-favoured | [j
likeness, therefore I will not look at thee.” Further she ||j
told him she purposed to go to church on Sunday, and there |(
he durst not come. He threatened that he would meet her j !
by the way and hinder, her. She replied, “ I will try that; ” }|j
so her eyes were still closed fora time, and at last she looked j
up, and the spirit was gone. ||
THE EFFECT OF A CHARMED PENNY UPON MR. FISH. ;}
You heard how William Fish did laugh at Wait’s wife for j j
her speeches concerning the penny, and how the woman was j j
offended at him for laughing. Since that time a miserable | ]
infirmity has fallen on him, so that one of his feet is j j
rotted away and fallen off from his leg, and hung up in his j j
father’s house, where he lieth for a sad spectacle. His leg | |
is now ready to fall off by the knee, and his certain death j j
expected, according to an imprecation against him. But j j
I censure not these things, for Jeffray’s daughter, whom the | |
spirit here speaketh of, thus it is. I I
Maud Jeffrey saw a vision of a boy, who appeared to her | |
as she was milking her father’s kine, and the wench there- I I
upon fell often into many trances and great ecstasies, whom | j
many persons went to visit; and the report of it came to |||
our ears about the midst of November. Her parents, as is j j
said, went to a wizard who wrought so as the wench amended, | j
and for six or seven weeks was perfectly well, but then I j
relapsed into greater infirmities than before. And this was ; j
the amending of that child which the spirit told of when he | j
offered to amend my daughter. j
MORE TROUBLE WITH THE CHARMED MONEY.
Item, Upon Sunday, the 25th of November, she went to ! 1
the church both before and after dinner, and that evening | j
Mr. Smithson, vicar of Fuystone, came to visit her, and | |
tarried supper with us: and after supper, as we sat talk- j j
ing of these things in the parlour, especially of the penny, [i
my daughter had occasion to open the desk, which m
stood by fast locked. She opened the lock and lifted up i
the cover, and presently both she and all who were present j?j
saw the penny lying upon the shelf in the desk, to the great m
marvel of us all, especially myself, who had so diligently j j
sought for it before. Whereupon I took it and put brim- m
stone, and so thrust it into the midst of the fire, which was i i
so vehement that it moved Mr. Smithson to say, “Sir, I | j
warrant you it will trouble you no more;” and we all thought m
it to be.molten and consumed; yet upon the Sunday fol- |||
lowing, the 2nd of December, the penny again lay in our Kj
sight, before the fire, and was then taken up by Edward |H
Fairfax, my son, a boy of ten years old. Then I took it, and j({
with brimstone and fire dissolved it and beat it to powder m
upon a stone. After this, for the first four days of Decern- jj!
her, she had some apparitions, in shapes of such persons j |
as she well knew, as of her brother Edward, of her uncle j j
(Martin Laycock), of John Simpson, and my servant, but |jj
she talked to none of these, neither was in any agony at the |jj
sight of them. ; j
HOW THE IDEA OF WITCHCRAFT WAS FIRST PUT INTO THE HEAD OF i(i
THE SENSITIVE. - |)i
Until this time we had no suspicion that this should be j j
witchcraft; but the matter of the penny and the fame of m
the woman who did bring it to the house, gave cause unto jj;
us* to surmise that perhaps this might be the action of !(j
some witch, many about being evil-reputed of in that kind, j/j
Yet were we slow to believe; but on Wednesday, the 5th of j jj
December, this accident the more confirmed us. My j(j
daughter was in the kitchen, and there fell into a trance j jj
to whom appeared a woman (as she after reported) like jj
to Wait’s wife in all things, save only that she looked some- <;
what younger. The woman saluted her and said, “ Mistress, jjj
I am a poor neighbour come to see you, and have nothing jjj
to give you but this penny ; buy with it what you please:” j(j
* The word “ us’’tends to show that the sensitive had np idea of being i(j
bewitched till others present put it into her head.—Ed, i (i
and therewith she laid upon her knee a single penny. But
she willed her to get her gone, and take her penny with her,
which the woman did accordingly. But she came again
presently, and brought in her arms a child in swaddling
clothes, and with frowning looks said, “ I will have thy
life, and this child shall suck out thy heart’s blood.”
Whereupon she set the child to her breast, which (as she
thought) sucked vehemently for the space of half an hour,
all which time she lay in great agony, and grieved sore, and
seemed to us who stood about her to be very sick. In the
end she cast up all in her stomach, and the child thereupon
was taken from her breast by the woman, and she spake
and said, “ Hast thou given it me ? Well, God’s will be
done.” And having spoken these words the woman de¬
parted with the child, and she came to herself. I asked
how she did ? She answered, “ Well, I thank God, but I
must die presently, for my heart’s blood is sucked out, and
I have cast it up.” Then she told us all the manner of the
woman’s coming, and of the child’s sucking, and averred
that the woman was Wait’s wife, and therefore concluded
that she must die. But myself and the rest who were pre¬
sent did comfort her and assure her she did vomit no blood
at all; that we perceived she was in some great agony for a
time, and very sick; and lastly, that she had a natural
vomit. Further, we did inform her that these were illusions
and lies, devices of the Devil, or perhaps some witches, his
ministers, to discourage her, and therefore we gave her the
best exhortations which Scripture or our own understandings
could afford to persuade her, so that in the end she seemed
well satisfied,- and smiled at the deceit of the witch as she
conceived it. This was the first time that Wait’s wife
appeared unto her, whom she had seen before, and therefore
knew her.
Item, Upon Thursday, the 6 th of December, Henry Graver,
a neighbour (of whom you shall hear much hereafter), came
to see her and found her in a trance, in which she remained
not long. When she came to herself she told that two hares
fought before her cruelly, so that they drew blood one of
another. “ One of them,” she said, “ was of the true colour
of a hare; the other not so, but more white.”
Item, upon Friday, the 7th of December, she was in bed
in the parlour, and so fast asleep that none could wake her.
At last I heard her say “ Shall I sleep three hours and then
be well ? ” This was heard by her brother, William Fairfax,
who sat by to watch with her. Then he called me, and his
mother, and others. We all assembled and sat about her,
observing her speeches, by which it appeared that a woman
like Wait’s wife appeared to her, who told her she would
sleep for three hours, and then be well if she did not tell;
but if she told, then she would have her life, with many
other the like speeches, among which she said to the woman,
“ Dost thou deny that thou pinned my band. Thou didst
send two hares to me, but I care not for all the spirits which
thou canst send.” The woman replied “ Thou thinkest that
I do bewitch thee, and I will tell thee when. If thou
remember, thy mother sent thee to Bess Foster’s in summer
last for money for corn, and as thou didst return from her
house thou didst sleep upon the stile in Blandfields, and thou
couldst not go over liowton bridge for sleeping. And again,
thou didst sleep in your own pasture a great while; there¬
fore it is Bess Foster, not I that doth bewitch thee.” She
replied, “ I think one of you witches will hang another; I
will have a warrant for you.” The woman said, “ Nay, thine
uncle Sir Thomas Fairfax is not at home.” She answered,
“ If he be not, yet there be other justices.” This discourse con¬
tinued long, in which time Wait’s wife herself came to my
house, for I had sent for her, with intent to make trial if my
daughter would challenge her to be the woman who appeared
to her with the child that sucked her breast. The person of
the woman I knew not when I saw her in my kitchen, until
I was informed who she was : then I walked forth with her
under the side of the garden, and told her my suspicion of
her, and the reasons I had for the same, namely, that she
got a touch of my daughter when she pinned her band. I
told her also of the matter of the penny, and of her appari¬
tion with the child. She denied all; and during the time
she talked with me beside the garden, my daughter in her
bed continued still the conference aforesaid with her simili-
April 7, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
161
tude to ray great marvel ; after going between the bed and
the garden, and hearing how it passed in both places, the
woman herself with me was in great passion when I told her
what I heard in the parlour, and she desired to be gone, or
that Margaret Wait, her daughter, might come to her, for
she must needs speak with her daughter, but I still threatened
that she should be carried before a justice. I sent for Henry
Graver and for Mr. Smithson, the vicar of Fuystone, to
whom, as my good neighbours, I reported the strangeness of
the case, and of them expected advice and comfort, as so
great a perturbation needfully required, but I found myself
deceived in the expectation ; for these men were great friends
to that woman, and turned all their speeches to entreaties,
that I would suffer the woman to depart, and to make further
trial before I brought her in question, to which I conde¬
scended. This while the wench in bed talked to her simili¬
tude, and exhorted her to repentance, elge said that she would
be hanged, and told her that the Scripture said there should
not be a witch in Israel. I stayed the woman and the two
men till my daughter should arise, who, about the end of
three hours, recovered from her trance, arose and reported
what had passed between the woman and her as you have
heard; yet she knew nothing that the woman herself was
with me, whom I stayed and kept in talk until (according to
former order taken) the wench came forth to us; and as soon
as she saw Wait’s wife she said, “ This is the woman in all
respects that appeared to me with the child, and who stood
even now by my bedside.” This trial being made, I yielded
to let the woman go, and told my opinion of her, that I
doubted she was a witch, and therefore if anything came to
my daughter that she should answer it with her life. So I
dismissed her, and going foremost towards the gate of the
court, the two men following me, suddenly, without any
occasion given to move her thereto, she stepped before the
two men, and with her hand gave me a clap upon the back;
at which I turned suddenly and said, “ See if thou show not
thyself a right witch indeed ? who canst not depart without
getting a touch of me that thou mayest bewitch me ; but I
hope God will preserve me.” My wife by chance saw this,
and, in much passion, threatened her with hanging, if any
evil came unto me. The woman went away murmuring,
and, in her going home so often stood still, and sometimes
turned about, sometimes looked back in so strange a manner
that divers men working in a close as she went, and other
persons also marvelled to see her so sore troubled.
The narrative goes on to tell how other persons also
bewitched his daughters, and how these persons, when tried
by somewhat sceptical judges and juries were acquitted,
somewhat to the chagrin of Edward Fairfax on the one
hand, he having established their guilt to his own
satisfaction; and somewhat to his own pleasure on the
other, he being pleased that his own integrity was not
called in question, and that he was considered more fool
than knave, though not altogether satisfied with either
alternative. Actual facts are sometimes strangely mixed
up with phantom impressions in the story; one of the
children fought with an unseen witch for a spoon, and at
the close had a real spoon in her hand; on another occasion
a dog in the room saw and grinned at a phantom cat, which
was clear to the sight of the bewitched children. As
mediumship is hereditary, some of the living members of
the Fairfax family could probably obtain manifestations by
sitting for them among themselves.
A large consignment of American books on Spiritualism by Dr.
Eugene Crowell, Mr. Epes Sargent, Colonel Olcott, Mr. Andrew Jack-
son Davis, Miss Lizzie Doten, and others, has just been received at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Spiritualism in Blackfriars.—On Sunday evening last Mrs. Baker-
Howarth gave a short trance address on “ Spiritualism—Is it the Work
of the Devil ? ” after which questions relative to the development of
mediums were invited by the controlling spirit. Most of those present
availed themselves of the invitation, and a great deal of information
was given respecting individual gifts of mediumship. On Sunday next, j,
April 9th, Mr. James Bums will deliver an address at the rooms of the I
South London Association, 71, Stamford-street. Doors open at half- J
past six, commence at s£ven.—■J. Burton, Hon. Sec. 1
^robincial fletoa.
LIVERPOOL.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Mr. Walter Isaac, healing medium, is now receiving patients at the
Psychopathic Institute daily. Those treated, however, are the best
j judges as to the fact whether they have received benefit from his mode of
I operation, which is claimed to be entirely under spirit direction.
Mr. Coates writes that Mr. Bamford and his sons paid a flying visit
to Liverpool on Saturday, and remained till Monday morning. They
gave a stance at his house before a few friends, mustered for the occa¬
sion. Mr. Bamford will be in Liverpool about the 15th inst., when he
| will give a series of sittings at the Psychopathic Institute.
| On Friday evening Mr. Charlton read a paper before the Liverpool
Psychological Society on the question, “Are women suitable persons to
| be public teachers and preachers?” He argued they were not,
and advanced, in support of his theory, the assertion that literary ladies,
and those who entered on a public career, lost much of that beauty of
nature which distinguished them from the sterner sex, and, as a rule,
lived unhappily with their husbands. He contended that the hearthside,
the bed side, were the fit and proper places for women, and that in be¬
coming public teachers or preachers they usurped the rights and preroga¬
tives of man. Mr. Coates contended for more public spheres of useful¬
ness for women; that they could win honour—literary and medical—
they had already proved; some of them had considerable ability as
| physicians, and exhibited undoubted cleverness in the treatment of the
diseases of women and children. If the opponents of the full enfran-
! chisement of woman had no better arguments to advance than use, pre¬
judice, and the hackneyed talk of Paul, they only defeated themselves.
Statistics proved that only one adult woman out of six reached the goal
of matrimony. Mr. John Priest supported Mr. Charlton’s paper from
motives of expediency; if he had one greater horror than another, it
would be to have an itinerent wife tramping the country to the neglect
of his household; blue stockings were to be admired, but not married.
Mr. J. Lament argued that if woman had a right to vote, she had a
j right to make a choice, to express an opinion, and that, too, publicly, if
she thought fit. He was an advocate for women’s rights. He added,
“ Educate and advance the girls, give them equal facilities with the boys,
| and you advance the nation.” A vote of thanks closed the meeting.
| On Sunday last Mr. Wood, trance medium, of Halifax, delivered
| two addresses in the afternoon and evening. They were listened to with
attention; the subject-matter was excellent, if the phraseology was
homely. Mr. Wood is also a test and medical medium, and he gave
several sittings during the week.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
A TEST MATERIALISATION SEANCE AT WEIR’s-COURT.
On Sunday morning, at eleven o’clock, sixteen persons were present
at a seance with Miss Fairlamb, including Messrs. Armstrong, Blake,
Coltman, Martin, Rhodes, Mrs. Rhodes, Miss Coltman, and others.
The stance was held in the smaller stance room, and the cabinet con¬
sisted of a semicircular rod attached to the brick wall of the room,
with dark hanging curtains. Miss Fairlamb was well corded to a chair
by a gentleman present, the final knots being placed at her back; but
on it being remarked that her wrists were too free, I, with another piece
of cord, secured them as tightly as could reasonably be done, and passed
the end lof the cord again around the waist, and knotted it at the back; the
knots were sealed with wax, and the medium was placed inside the
curtains. With her permission, her white handkerchief was taken out
of her pocket, the curtains were drawn close, and the gas lowered,
leaving sufficient light to discern the features of all present. Probably
three-quarters of au hour elapsed before Cissy showed herself, during
which time she kept the company amused by her drolleries. At last
the curtains parted, and there stood this little figure, less than three
feet high certainly, her dark face surrounded with white drapery, but
she did not face the light long at a time. She retired within the cur¬
tains for a short time, and again they were drawn aside, showing the
medium fully from head to foot, with Cissy sitting on her lap. The
features of both were discernible, also the small dark arm of Cissy in
contrast to the white drapery. That it was a living, moving figure was
beyond a doubt, for, among other things, Mr. Martin said, “ Cissy, give
your medium a kiss.” Her dark face turned instantly to that of the
medium, and she could be not only seen but heard ; and at the same
time the deep heavy breathing of the entranced medium was audible.
Other things were done at request, and the evidence on this occasion
was equal to any other in which a child is seen sitting on its mother’s
knee. It also may be added that the medium was pushed in her chair
some distance to the front of the cabinet, and that the medium was not
pushing the chair she sat on, could be seen by her motionless feet pro¬
truding underneath the curtains. At the termination of the seance the
cords, knots and seals were found intact, and Miss Fairlamb was
warmly congratulated on the result. J. T. Rhodes.
Miss Wood’s Mediumship.—Research has established that the
spirit hands which carry instruments about at spirit circles are in
most cases the “ doubles ” of the hands of the medium, also that the
heads from which the voices come are usually the dupheates in form of
those of the mediums. These evanescent forms come off the medium
and return whence they came. The similarity in appearance just
mentioned, gave all the trouble which Messrs. Varley, Crookes, Lux-
moore, Blackburn, and others had in testing mediums. Hence the
circumstance that colouring matter placed upon instruments was found
upon the hands of Miss Wood when a seance was over is of no impor¬
tance, except in the eyes of the uninformed, and the fact that at the
close she was still bound in her chair as she had been fastened at first
by those who tested her, was evidence of her. integrity.
i62
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 7, 187(1
THE RESULT OF A UNIVERSITY BOAT-RACE FORETOLD
BY SPIRITS.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, of 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, has |
forwarded hs the following: document in relation to a seance i
at which he was present:— j
At a circle met for the purpose of investigating the alleged j
spiritual communications, on the evening of Tuesday, the 16th March,
1869, at the residence of Mr, Williams, an acquaintance of mine, we
were favoured with answers to the following questions, which were
asked as test ones only, viz. :— / r
Q.—Can you tell us the result of the boat race to take place to- j
morrow? A.—Yes. ' I
Q.—Will the Cambridge boat win? A.—No. j
Q.—Will the Oxford boat win ? A.—Yes. i|
Q.—By how many strokes, or lengths? A.—Three full (answered j,
by three decisive and one very slight tilt of the table). ij|
Q.—Are you telling us the truth ? A.—Yes. I
Q.—And we may rely on this as true ? A.—Yes.
The under-mentioned are the names of those who were present on h
the above occasion, and testify to the truth of the record. j'
Miss Mary J. S. Bear. Miss Williams.
Mr. Wm. Bradford. Mr. Geo. Williams. t
Thomas Blyton. |
} j
Before the boat-race came off, Mr. Blyton made known i
the information thus given to some of the clerks in the
secretary’s office of the North London Railway Company at |
Broad-street, and they signed the following document in j'
witness of the fact:— - ' I1
The following persons are witnesses to my having narrated to j1
them, on the morning of the 17th March, 1869, between the hours of j]
9 and 10 a.m., the foregoing questions and answers.
Thomas Blyton. Jno. Hyde. !;
T. Melville Terns. Fred. J. Dunn. ||
London, 18th March, 1869. ‘ U’ ' ■ : : : - " 'jj
The Sportsman of March 18th, 1869, published the j;
result of the race as follows :— [.|j
“At Barnes Bridge they led by quite two lengths, and eventually j!
passed the judge’s boat the winners, for the ninth successive time, by j;
three clear lengths. Time, by Benson’s chronograph, 20 min. 6| sec.” i1
11 ' ■ ■ ' ' !■;
I1
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. |)
i .suyude .tiJtfiijji'h p
On Thursday evening last week a meeting of the members and p
Mends of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was j >
held at its rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E., under the
presidency of Mr. W. H. Harrison.
MRS. WOODFORDE ON MEMOMSHIP—MANIFESTATIONS WITNESSED IN THE j)
PRESENCE OF MESSRS. B ASTI AN, COLMAN, AND EGLINTON. *
The following paper, by Mrs. Woodforde, was then read by Mr. P
Blyton:—
“ My calling as a developer of mediumship has brought me into con- j)
tact with mediums in different stages of development; but it has been ]/
my pleasurable duty also to bring to the surface in many, the very first p
indications of the power of holding communion with the higher ones in !)
propria, persona, or without the intervention of any other medium, p
Where the seeker for development is blessed with a cool and calm intel- i \
lect, devoid of a dangerous enthusiasm, too great credulity, or any of j)
those infirmities which render an individual at any time, or in any pur- P
suit, liable to attacks of various kinds, quite apart from the practice or !)
cultivation of mediumship—the opening of the spiritual faculties is a j j
source of the highest happiness, as we all know, who have been able to i(
carry out its pursuit wisely and properly. When with hearts uplifted ;)
in prayer, with minds ever reaching after the highest, we seek those i)
who have begun to tread heaven’s shining paths, they draw near to i
us to give the counsel sought, to soothe the soul troubled by the dif- ] j
Acuities of an earthly career, by injustice, or by that hardest trial of ! j
all to bear—the poisonous tongues of slanderers: they draw near to i (
pour in the healing balm, to strengthen the flagging purpose, to uplift j j
into heaven’s peace, and to cheer with that love which passeth all j)
understanding. This is the happiness to be drawn from spirit com- j(
muoion; these are the angel ministrations to which we open the door H
by the cultivation of our own inherent spirituality; by trying to have j |
our minds, our eyes, and ears open to those beings who throng our i(
paths by day and by night whether we seek them or not; and who jj
are beneficent ministrants, or malevolent tormentors and misleaders, i)
according to our own manner of seeking, or our own states of spiritual j\
def rmity, or degradation. oM ei’Ai zhnmi jj
“A delightful task it is to aid in the unfoldment of these faculties, jj
surrounded, bathed, as it were, in the spiritual auras of those loving jj
ones clustering near, and lending all their sweet influences to bring jj
forth, train, and mature to fruition those latent germs newly urged to jj
activity, and labouring under the load of long undisturbed materiality.1 jj
Delightful, indeed, the new beautiful beings brought to one’s acquaint- jj
ance, the new natures, the new forms of spiritual excellence in jj
mother, sister, father, brother, or friend; whose love-spheres impinging jj
upon the opened senses of the developer fill with a new delight, a >
new knowledge of love, new instances of the inexhaustible varieties of
heavenly beauty, seen when clairvoyant eyes look upon the exaltation,
the seraphic effulgence of one of those glorious beings long passed from
earth, or who have gained the loveliness they bear about them by re¬
peated battlings in the flesh against all that degrades humanity ; and
who with that loveliness of spirit which marked the beautiful and divine
Jesus, come to earth to take their stand beside a soul still in the flesh,
and train it for heaven. Such are some of the beautiful guides, or
guardians, my eyes have beheld, and with whom I have held longer or
shorter delicious communion.
“ In every new sitter who comes to me I behold the possibilities of a
new angelic communion to be gradually unfolded to us both, or, perhaps,
to myself alone, if it be impossible to open it to my sitter. The de¬
lightful surprises I have had, the beautiful revelations, some of them too
sacred to be given to the world—those holy things, pearls beyond price,
all mediums more or less receive, which may not be cast before swine,
lest they turn again and rend us, an experience we have all, perhaps,
bitterly sustained at some time or other.
“ With many of those strangers coming in to me for introduction to
new guides, or to open up communion with their beloved and lost, have
ties of imperishable affection and friendship been formed, linked by the
spirits, and kept bright by their perpetual coming and going between us.
In all do I take an earnest, loving interest, watching their growth with
a pleasure nothing else could give, and rejoicing in their success. With
some I have been the means, by bringing them under the influence of
my own guides, to regulate or remove a disorderly control, in some in¬
stances to uplift or change the mind of a spirit pursuing some dark
path. It is inexpressibly delightful to hear the outpourings of gratitude
from both mortals and spirits, when this blessed work can be done
through me, and my heart is lifted up with thankfulness to my guides
for the work they have given me to do, and trained me for.
“ My work seems to inspire me with strong feelings of fellowship to¬
wards all mediums. I sympathise with them deeply, feeling their
sorrows and troubles as if they were my own. Mediums vary very much ;
it is not all mediums who are harmonious with each other, and though
harmonising at some times, they are not able to do so always; hence we
witness some curious separations and anomalies of intercourse between
mediums. Ofttimes these are occasioned by the discipline each one is
necessarily compelled to go through, or by spirit influences which are
just as variable and incomprehensible as the so-called rulings of destiny
appear to be with us.
“ It is my pleasure to have mediums about me, and to watch the exercise
of their various gifts; especially are they delightful to me when I recog¬
nise in them those natures the spirits love, of innocence, simplicity (I
do not mean stupidity), frankness, truth, ingenuousness, and honesty.
Physical mediumship has an especial attraction for me. I look upon it
as one of the highest, if not the highest, form of mediumship. I think
its capabilities are not fully known or realised, and its powers of giving
us the nearest, the most perfect, and the highest communion with the
spirit world are by no means appreciated, and consequently not culti¬
vated. What can be a higher or more perfect form of mediumship than
that which brings us into visible and tangible communion with our de¬
parted friends, so that we may see, hear, and touch them ? By trance we get
at the best but an adulteration of the spirit presence: there is always more
or less admixture of the medium. It is true that we are favoured by many
great, lofty, and instructive lectures through the lips of trance mediums ;
but we get as good, in many instances far better, through our most cul¬
tivated lecturers in a normal state. (Of course we must always except
descriptions and accounts of the spirit world, which can only be obtained
through mediums.) But what could surpass the delivery of a lecture
vied voce by a materialised spirit in our midst ? This is one of the
great possibilities to be obtained through physical mediumship. It is a
thing to be worked for by the careful cultivation, fostering, and protec¬
tion of physical mediums; and by the constant efforts we make to reach
a higher point in our manifestations. Our own desires and efforts in
that direction will insensibly act upon our mediums and their spirit
controllers—the demand will create the supply.
“ It has been my happiness to witness some superlatively good mani¬
festations through the mediumship of Messrs. Harry Bastian and
Arthur Colman, two of the finest mediums upon earth; both remarkable
for delicate refinement, and purity of character, and therefore possessing
capabilities for the highest forms of physical mediumship. But the one
compeUed to earn his bread by receiving large and promiscuous circles,
has his powers weakened, and more or less vitiated from their highest
possibilities ; and the other, not following mediumship as a profession,
is still so delicate in constitution and so sensitive to coarse influences,
that his health, and consequently his powers, suffer from sitting in a
large or carelessly selected circle. With a few harmonious friends Mr.
Colman is ever at his best, and it is then delightful to watch the work
of his spirit controls through him; the ease, the refined grace with
which they arrange the order of his seances (always the case when the
circle is select, and they are left to themselves), the perfectly uninter¬
rupted success which attends all their efforts to produce what they
desire; and the absolute control they have over their medium, until it
seems a case of complete intermingling of being, of spirit and mortal.
It is unusual to see a spirit convey a medium out of the cabinet, in a
state of complete trance, after materialisations have been given, and re¬
arrange the room and sitters to suit the requirements of the programme
agreed upon by the spirits; then afterwards the medium, still in the
trance, walking about, and exhibiting the materialised spirit by the light
of a candle held in his hand, calling up each one of the company in his
turn, and subsequently, under the same control, and in a good light,
seemingly pick up from the carpet a length of pink tarlatan which visibly
grew in his hands, materialising, and dematerialising it in the open room,
as he advanced and receded before us, waving, twisting, and wreathing
it about himself as if in sport, and finally causing it to disappear in the
air before our very eyes. These things are unusual; but I and two
April 7, 1876.^
THE SPIRITUALIST.
163
others had the inestimable privilege of beholding these extraordinary
manifestations through Mr. Colman. Indeed it seemed as if our ethe-
rial friends might do anything they pleased through their medium.
“ I know of no medium whose powers are more versatile; excellent as a
test and trance medium, a fine clairvoyant, and a trance painter ; but this
form has not yet been much cultivated. In short, a nature so transparently
spiritual in itself that the spirit-friends seem to have no difficulty in
manifesting themselves as they please, if they have the proper conditions,
After a long and fatiguing physical and materialising seance, I have
heard the higher controls deliver a beautiful allegory through the lips
of Mr. Cdlman, couched in the most elegant, poetical, and touching
language. Through his mediumship, whilst he has been taped, sealed,
and secured in a bag, I have had my piano played upon by the unmis¬
takable master-hands of Handel, Beethoven, Von Weber, Mendelssohn,
and our amiable, graceful friend, Aimee, one of Mr. Colman’s principal
spirit controls. Rare, indeed, is this instrument of the spirits, but of so
delicate a constitution, and holding upon the body by so frail a tenure,
that we might gladly dispense with these displays of mediumship for
the greater happiness of retaining amongt us the gentle, upright, vir¬
tuous, and generous young man ; the true and loyal friend; the affec¬
tionate and devoted son.
“ My paper is said to be a recital of ‘ experiences.’ I fear it has in
a measure failed to bear out that character; but, to make some amends,
I will give a few experiences I have had with another physical medium,
whose reputation is now growing in our midst. I allude to Mr. Eglin-
ton, a young man of great promise, one who, under the fostering care of
Spiritualists, may grow to be one of the greatest mediums England has
ever produced. Of apparently a good constitution, and devoid of coarse¬
ness, he already gives evidences of superior mediumship, and will
only require to be careful in his life and aims, cultivating ever the
highest, and to meet with the sympathetic encouragement of wise
patrons, to become all his friends could desire. We have seen some
very excellent materialisations through Mr. Eglinton, of faces, hands,
of the full form of a child (Joey’s Sprite, as he calls him), and of an
infant in long clothes, which laid upon the medium’s lap, both being
visible in a good light.
“ From fellow-feeling and kindly interest, Mr. Colman frequently sits
with Mr. Eglinton, and with the two mediums we have had jewels
materialised, the full form of the ‘ White Warrior ’ in the light of three
gas-burners full on, both mediums being securely taped and sealed. We
have had a tin trumpet floated out of the cabinet window and half
across the room in a good light; both mediums have handled red-hot
coals; and numerous other evidences of excellent mediumship have
been given us.
“ But, with all these pleasurable experiences of complete success, and
the delightful nearness of our spirit-friends, I have had the pain of
seeing my mediums passing through the trial of having doubts cast upon
their honesty, in spite of all the careful attention bestowed upon tests.
I have seen them fretted, annoyed and rendered ill by malignant
aspersions cast upon their characters from quarters where they have
striven most to give satisfaction and pleasure. I have seen the very
spirit-controls stirred out of their usual calm, and displaying more of
the fret the mediums suffered under than seemed quite compatible with
spirit existence, or elevation, showing that they were but human still.
This I have seen, and suffered from with deepest sympathy with my
mediums ; and I have helplessly deplored the impossibility of keeping
mediums protected from the disturbing elements of the outer world;
from the effects of that human deformity which displays itself in
suspicion and acts of malevolence, in malicious slanders, and every
other ugliness which the undisciplined demon-nature takes a delight in
exhibiting. When we have pure and good mediums, to get the highest
work from them we must protect them by pure and good surroundings.
“ Such are some of my experience^; may their recital be of use! ”
A discussion followed the reading of this paper, chiefly upon the
point whether physical manifestations were usually of the high order
supposed by Mrs. Woodforde.
Mrs. Corner said that she thought that, in materialising manifesta¬
tions, the spirits never displayed any intelligence beyond that already
possessed by either the medium or the sitters. She remembered that
once, when Miss Kislingbury was present at one of Miss Cook’s circles,
the spirit Katie King sang a song in German, but when Miss Kisling¬
bury was absent she could do nothing of the kind; showing that she
appeared to derive the power to speak in German in some way from the
brain of one of the sitters.
Miss Kislingbury remarked that, when Miss Cook was awake, she
could not follow a song in German. Messages most foreign to the
mind of the medium had generally, she thought, been given through
writing mediumship.
THE EARLY EXPERIENCES OP MR. JOHN ROUSE.
Mr. John Rouse then rose and said:—
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I am quite aware that this evening has been
set apart for the purpose of giving the members of this Association an
opportunity of relating their experiences, and as, doubtless, many will
avail themselves of it, I am also quite aware that it will be necessary
to be as brief as possible. I shall, therefore, lay before you only a few
of the most important facts and phenomena that have come under my
notice since I have been acquainted with Spiritualism. Anything more
than this upon the present occasion would be impossible, as a detailed
description of my knowledge of Spiritualism would require at least a
whole evening to itself. I therefore ask your kind attention while I
relate the following :—
About five years and a-half ago, just before Christmas, 1870, being in
want of a pair of gloves to go down home in, to spend the Christmas as
we always do, I went into a large shop full of people and assistants to
buy a pair. A young man waited upon me, and after placing several
pairs before me for selection, I noticed that he looked first to the right
and then to the left with something like fear, as if he were afraid of being
watched, and then all of a sudden he pulled a newspaper out of his coat
pocket, and with a stammering apology asked me if I had ever seen or
heard of it before. I looked at him, and asked what it was; he replied
that it was The Medium and Daybreak, a paper lately established,
advocating the claims of Spiritualism. He was kind enough to lend it
to me, so I took it home and read it through, and I soon saw that it
related to things similar to many that I had heard of in my own family
and elsewhere; from that day I and my wife determined to get what
information we could, and to investigate the matter for ourselves.
VIOLENT PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
I called a few neighbours together, and after two or three uproarious
and unsatisfactory sittings in one of their houses, I invited a lady and
gentleman who seemed the most interested to come to my house and sit
with me and my wife, alone. They came, and we four sat at a long
square table, and before many minutes we were all fully convinced there
was some other power than that we exerted, or were conscious of
exerting.
I do not think any of those four sitters will ever forget that night.
The table answered all our questions without hesitation, and with ap¬
parent truthfulness; it told me at once that I should be a clairvoyant,
trance, and writing medium ; it ran all round the room, jumped upon
another table, and after various other antics, it stood up endways on
two legs, with the other end in the air, and neither I nor my friend
could force it to the ground. We actually got on top of it, yet some
force held it up against all our weight; then it descended to the floor,
and at our request became immovable, nor could I, using all my power,
move it from its place; yet, strange to say, what force could not accom¬
plish was immediately done in response to a polite request. As this
was our first real seance, you may easily imagine what a curious impres¬
sion and effect it produced upon us. The impression was a dread of
something unknown, that made us almost afraid to look round the room;
the effect was quite the opposite, namely, immoderate laughter.
THE INTELLIGENCE CONNECTED WITH THE MANIFESTATIONS.
For some time we had a table seance four or five times a week, by
which we became a little more accustomed to the apparently ridiculous
phenomenon of a dancing table, and at the same time we gained
calmer control over ourselves, so that we were better able to reason,
observe, and ponder upon what one of my neighbours persisted in call¬
ing the antics of the devil. However, I soon perceived that the devil
was more powerful, more intelligent, and more obliging, when a solitary
friend of mine and my own family held a seance by ourselves than he
was when we had (as we often did) a number of strangers present. On
one of these occasions, when he appeared to be in a particularly good
humour, we put the question to him point blank—“ If you are the
devil, will you be so kind as to spell-out your name?” Instantly the
table said “ Yes.” Then I proceeded to say the alphabet, and was
much surprised when I went past the letter “ D ” without a move from
the table, and my surprise increased when it went on to the middle of
the alphabet, and began and finished by spelling out the name of a near
and dear relative of my own, who had been in the spirit-world some
years. From that time forward our messages became more intelligent,
consistent, and of a high test character ; I therefore resolved to do as
the supposed spirits told me, and sat many long weary hours, often by
myself, for development in whatever form it might come.
LOST LEASES OF ESTATES RECOVERED BY SPIRIT AGENCY.
About this time I wrote a letter to the Medium, which was published
on Feb. 3rd, 1871, giving some of these details, and to which I affixed
my name and address. The result was, that an aged lady called upon
me (she was the wife of a general in the army), introduced herself, told
me she was a Spiritualist, and had been one for years, and begged that
I would favour her with a sitting with us. After some hesitation I com¬
plied with her request, and during that seance the blows given by the
spirits upon the windows, walls, and doors of the house must have been
heard by the passers by in the street; it was about two o’clock in the
day. She at once declared that I was a most powerful medium, thanked
us for the seance, and left us, it seemed to me, highly pleased and
delighted.
A little after this the same lady called again, and, producing a large
old-fashioned gold seal from her pocket, she told me that it belonged to a
family that she herself had no knowledge of, but they were the acquain¬
tances of a friend of hers, who had handed it to her to bring to me, and
she wished me to put it on our table at our next seance. She said
that this family—a family of distinction, who lived in the north of
Ireland—were in great trouble because the leases of their estates were
lost; that they had tried every means in their power to find them, with¬
out success; and that the family lawyer was then advising them to put
the whole matter into Chancery, and to commence an action to prove
their title. This could only be done at a ruinous expense, besides the
chance of their losing the day. They, therefore, in despair, and as a last
resource, determined to see what could be done by occult means. They
had heard something of Spiritualism and of mediums, so empowered a
friend who was coming to England to apply to a medium for them, and
try what could be done. This friend took counsel of the lady who
called upon me ; who then told me that if the seals were laid upon the
table, it would most likely bring spirits to the circle who knew some¬
thing of the family, and who might be able to supply the information
i required.
| I was much surprised at her application, and asked her why she did
| not go to some of the professional mediums and others who professed to
undertake such matters, and answer them. Her reply was, she had no
faith in them, but would take it as a great favour if I would try for her.
| That night I and my wife talked the matter over; and, after expres¬
sing our fear whether it were right or not to attempt such a thing, also
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the possibility of our being arrested by the police for fortune-telling, we
made up our minds to try, and after making everything comfortable—by
poking the fire, locking the door, and attending to other little odds and
ends—we sat down to the table with some paper and pencils, ready in
case they were wanted. I may here state that I had no faith in the
matter myself, and did not expect to get any answer, but rather felt
ashamed to find myself connected with such a foolish undertaking as I
thought it to be. However, we had not sat long before the table told us
a message would be given about it, and that I was to hold a pencil
for the purpose. I took up a pencil, immediately my arm became
convulsed, and I felt some power making me write; after some time it
succeeded, and gave the following message—the first three words, how¬
ever, were written backwards :—
“ You go to Exeter, and make inquiries. Remember.—W. Cotry.”
This message I flatly refused to send to the lady, as it seemed to me
to he one without a meaning, but my wife kept it several days, and at
length did send it; the lady forwarded it to her friend, who sent it on
to Ireland. A reply came back, “ Please ask the spirits for more
information.”
I was applied to again, when the same control wrote—
“ The message already given is sufficient. Let it be acted upon.—W. Cotry.”
This was sent to Ireland. The family began to consider who could
possibly be at Exeter in England, who could know anything about their
affairs; but they went there, and soon discovered a dignitary of the
Church of England, who was an old friend of their father’s, who died
in 1824. This gentleman at once acknowledged that their father, be¬
fore he died, had given him a parcel of papers to take care of when the
gentleman himself was living in another part of England, and on look¬
ing them up the lost leases were found in them.
To make matters short, the family were so pleased that they imme¬
diately and voluntarily sent me a cheque for a large amount, begging I
would favour them by accepting it, at the same time promising to come
and see me when they visited London, but as yet they have never done so.
I believe that, as they are churchmen, they are afraid that the devil had
something to do with it.
An account of this was printed in the Medium of October 18th, 1872,
and also in The Spiritual Magazine for June, 1874, and in other publi¬
cations, including the Mining Journal.
The spirit, W. Cotry, has never left me since, being my guide for
such tests as he has been able to supply since then to many who have
sought his assistance.
Since that time I have worked hard in the cause, speaking for nearly
two years in public at Chelsea Suspension Bridge on Sunday evenings
about Spiritualism. I have had regular seances at my house from that
time to this, at which hundreds of people in all have been present. I
have also spent a considerable sum of money and much time in travel¬
ling about London and the country, teaching other people, both known
Spiritualists and private persons.
At my regular seances at home we often get things moved about the
rooms, and books thrown upon the table. I have also developed into a
clairvoyant, trance, and writing medium, and very frequently have the
privilege of proving this by the tests I am able to give.
Spirits sometimes speak through me in both prose and verse, and occa¬
sionally upon scientific subjects—sometimes speaking for an hour, and
sometimes only for a few minutes. Others will write through my hand;
others, again, will give me visions, and shew themselves to me. I have
seen them at all times—in the sunlight and in darkness—and on several
occasions they have spoken in the direct voice, so loud that myself, wife,
and child have heard and replied to them, even when we have been
sitting at our meals in the sunlight.
I have visited most of the professional mediums, to whom I have
paid as much as a guinea for one sitting; and I have visited a great
number of private mediums and families, some of them almost at the
very top of the social ladder, and some again I have visited almost at
the very lowest round; in all cases I have found—and I say it with
pride—that I have always been made welcome, and treated with every
consideration for Spiritualism’s sake.
Some of my best and most astonishing experiences have been with
private mediums, that the outside world never hears of. I have seen,
heard, and learnt more with these in one sitting than I could with a
professional medium in a dozen, judging from the general phenomena
produced at their general seances. Wot that I wish to speak one word
against public mediums—who are highly useful to the movement, and
deserve all they get—but as a matter of fact.
THE HUMAN “ DOUBLE.”
I have sat with a private circle in one of the fashionable squares of
London, and when I was obliged to leave it and go to Norwich for a
couple of weeks on business, one of the members of that circle—a
private lady—has appeared to me there on a country road, coming
within five feet of me, making signs with her hands and trying to speak
to me. This occurred when her body was in London, but in a state of
trance; she appeared in evening dress, with all her jewellery and
ornaments, the same as she actually was at the time in the drawing¬
room of another lady.
THE NATURE OF THE COMMUNICATING SPIRITS.
Besides this, I have conversed upon these subjects with hun¬
dreds of people, both male and female, of all degrees of capacity,
and of every shade of opinion, and thereby I have learnt much.
Some tell me they have angels attending their circles; I know of one who
claims to have as many as seventy archangels attending upon her, and
another who is visited regularly by Christ and the twelve apostles.
Others, again, have told me that they get nothing but evil spirits, and
sometimes Satan himself puts in an appearance. Another tells me that
the spirits she gets at her circles are all like little fairies, no bigger than
her thumb, who hop and skip about with all kinds of fantastic move¬
ments, making all manner of ugly faces, and doing everything they can
merely to attract attention.
These are experiences I have never observed or arrived at myself,
although I have often sat with each of these mediums; nor have I, in
all my five years of sitting at home, ever been honoured with a visit
from the angel Gabriel; neither have I ever been annoyed by that arch¬
enemy of mankind called the Devil. On the contrary, my experience
has been uniformly with the same sort of spirits—spirits who declare
(| that they were once what I am now, inhabitants of this world. I know
/; at least six of these spirits intimately, from constantly seeing them, and
(j being in communication with them.
| I put faith in them and what they say, because they have done actual
)| work for me at my request, and given me tests of their identity and
(I power; consequently I am inclined to believe them when they advise
) i me not to believe all I hear at seances, especially about angels and
)\ devils, as we understand those words.
(| REINCARNATION.
>| I have questioned them a thousand times about reincarnation, tinder
ji all circumstances, and they have ever denied that there was any truth
|| in it; but at the same time they have always taken pains to make me
) I understand that the great scheme of the universe is continual progress
(| and development; that neither men nor worlds ever occupy the same
|j place or position one second that they did the previous one; that it is
! impossible that the great wheel of creation can stand still, much less go
(j back, but that the destiny of the human race is continued onward for
|l ever, to states and conditions which they cannot in their present exist-
)j ence even imagine; and that this is the reason why men are compelled
11 to invent for themselves an imaginary locality called heaven, as a final
)| place of rest.
11 However this may be, whether the spirits are wrong, or we are all
| wrong, or we are both wrong together, seems to me of little moment in
)j the matter. We should all strive to do our best to get at the facts of all
[l things that interest us. If we do this honestly, none of us need fear that
Lj we are on the wrong track or flying in the face of God by so doing, for
j of this I feel as sure as that I live, that had He intended that this field
11 of investigation was not to be explored, He would never have permitted
ij us to enter the gate.
I myself am not one of those who fall down and worship anything,
and I no more believe that this is a special revelation from God than
that I believe it is a direct and special imposition from the Devil. But
I look upon the whole subject as one of the results of the evolution of
j those great, unchangeable, and natural laws which govern the whole
universe, which unveil themselves to men when they are sufficiently
advanced in spirituality and knowledge to be able to comprehend some-
| thing of their nature, and to reduce it to something like order by actual
experiment.
We are at present but pioneers in the movement, understanding but
little of its forces, its laws, or its effects; but we are clearing away the
| weeds and brushwood which check the great highway of human
| advancement, and along which at no distant day the grand triumphal
i /1 car of Spiritualism will follow in our wake. (Applause.)
j J Mr. Dottridge remarked that Mr. Rouse appeared to have been very
jvf suddenly converted to Spiritualism.
> Mr. Rouse replied that although his conversion was apparently
I (i sudden, his mind was quite prepared for it. Once he was off the coast
|{| of California in the capacity of chief officer of a ship, the captain of
j jj which was a writing medium, and by the information he obtained from
j(j spirits frightened two or three persons on board. Since that time he
j |j (Mr. Rouse) had seen spirits occasionally in his own house. The night
I (j his sister died in New York he and his brother and sister had her at
u home talking to them, and telling them of the fact. All the parties
i ft concerned in the recovery of the lost leases of which he had spoken,
j)j were willing to verify the facts to anybody who chose to inquire, but
!([ they did not want their names published.
i i The Chairman asked Mr. Rouse whether he considered mediumship
jjj to be abnormal, or altogether beneficial.
!Mr. Rouse replied that he thought mediumship to be abnormal, and
a disease more than anything else. He was always less well in health
| after a sitting, and if he went anywhere where he was surrounded by
| uncongenial persons, his sufferings at the time and afterwards were
| very great.
j( i Mrs. Corner expressed the opinion that her daughters suffered if they
11 gave way to their mediumship too much; they had to give it up now and
| then.
|j| Mr. Henry Cook said that although he had seen much of it in his
| > i own house, it was a puzzle to him, and he did not understand it. He
11 i wished that English men of science would explain to him what it all
11 i meant.
M Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
The Library of the National Association of Spiritualists.—
The Library at 38, Great Russell-street, has lately been enriched by
the addition of the following works: Hay don's Correspondence and
Table Talk, by his Son; H. Spicer’s Strange Things among us, and
Sights and Sounds, the Mystery of the Day, presented by the Rev. W.
Whitear; Kavanagh’s Origin of Language and Myths, 2 vols., and
Edinburgh Essays, 1856, presented by l)r. J. Dickson ; Gregory’s
Handbook of Organic Chemistry, presented by Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory ; Mr. Newton Crosland’s Apparitions, presented by the
Author; Count de Pomar’s Through the Ages, 3 vols., presented by
the Countess of Caithness; The. Stars and The Angels, presented by
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers ; twenty-five volumes of old German works on
Alchemy, presented by Mr. A. Vacher; and Old Truths in a New
Light, by the Countess of Caithness.
April 7, 1876.
164
365
April 7, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
VICTIMS BEWITCHED BY THE AID OF EFFIGIES.
Records relating to the practice of witchcraft occasionally contain
accounts of tortures alleged to be inflicted upon individuals by the
manufacture of waxen images of them, into which pins were run in the
course of certain magical rites. Ingoldsby’s story of The Leech of
Folkestone embodies an incident of the kind, told with dramatic force.
Was this practice founded upon mere superstition, or did some fragment
of misunderstood philosophical truth underlie the carrying out of the
machinations? The following description of the practice is quoted
from the North of England Advertiser of March 25th:—
I have been much interested in the recent articles on “ Witchcraft on
the Tyne” in the Weekly Chronicle, and could have wished them extended
so as to have embraced the general subject, as I believe nothing tends
so much to dissipate the extravagant chimeras of superstitious minds as
a constant exposure of their exceeding absurdity. I, therefore, venture
to send you a few excerpts from a little book in my possession called
Satan's Invisible World Discovered, being relations touching witches,
charms, apparitions, and kindred subjects. This book seems to have
been written by a Mr. George Sinclair, Professor of Moral Philosophy,
Glasgow, with the object of proving against the atheists and other unbe¬
lievers, that such things as witches, warlocks, and other “ uncanny”
folk really do exist, and are used by the devil as tools in his hands to
effect all manner of wickedness among mankind.
I may premise that, according to Grose, a witch is almost universally
a poor, decrepit, superannuated old woman, who, being in distress, is
tempted by a man clothed in a black cloak or gown, sometimes, as in
Scotland, wearing also a bluish band and handcuffs, that is, a kind of
linen sleeve. This man promises her, if she will sign a contract to be
his, body and soul, she shall want for nothing, and that he will revenge
her upon her enemies. The argument being concluded, he gives her
some trifling sum to bind the bargain; then, cutting or pricking her
fingers, he causes her to sign her name or make a cross as her mark,
with her own blood. What is the form of these contracts is nowhere
mentioned. There are three sorts of witches. The first can hurt, but
not help; these, from their diabolical qualities, are called black witches.
The second sort can help, but not hurt; these are unhappy persons,
who, for the power of curing disease, finding stolen goods, and doing
other acts of utility, for which they take money, become bond slaves to
the devil; they are at continual enmity with the black witches, and
often fall a sacrifice to their wicked arts. These are called white
witches. The third sort are those who can both hurt and help, and
seem a sort of mixture between white and black, and, wanting a name,
may, without any great impropriety, be named grey witches.
I will now proceed to summarise Relation 1 from the book mentioned
above, “ touching the troubles Sir George Maxwell, of Pollock, met with
from the devil and his haggs.” This relation is by the son of Sir George
Maxwell, who says his father had been in Glasgow on October 14th,
1676, and was seized in the night-time by a hot and fiery distemper,
and, coming home, he was seven weeks in great pain, chiefly in his right
side, though not confined to his bed; and that about this time there had
come to live in Pollock town a young dumb girl—from whence was not
known—and she, having occasionally frequented Sir George’s house,
got into conversation with his two daughters, and having observed Sir
George sick and weak in body, did signify to them that there was a
woman whose son had broken Sir George’s fruit-yard, that did prick
him in his sides. The dumb girl one day, among a great company of
women, pointed out to Sir George’s daughters a woman called Janet
Mathie, relict of John Stewart, under-miller of Schaw Mill, and assured
them that she had formed a wax-picture, with pins in the side, which
was to be found in her house in a hole behind the fire : and offering to
bring it to them if she were accompanied by two men to protect her,
from violence. Two servant-men were sent to the woman’s house with
the girl, and she, in their presence, took from a hole behind the fire the
wax picture, which had two pins in it. By order of Lord Ross the
woman was committed to prison. In the meantime Mathie, remaining
obstinate, was searched for “ invisible ” marks before the Sheriff of Ren¬
frew, and many famous witnesses at Paisley, and very many were found
on her.
After the finding of the image, Sir George’s illness slightly abated.
In January, however, it broke out afresh with considerable virulence, so
that his life was despaired of, and at the same time an express came
from the dumb girl, signifying that John Stewart, Mathie’s eldest son,
had, four days since, formed an effigy of clay for taking away the life of
Sir George, and declared that it was in his house, beneath the bolster,
among the bed-clothes. The image was found by Sir George’s servants
and others, in the bed, with three pins in it, when Stewart and his sister
Annabel, who was only in her fourteenth year, were apprehended. The
latter confessed to being present in her brother’s house when the clay
picture was formed; the black gentleman (which was the devil) being
present, together with Bessie Weir, Margery Craig, Margaret Jackson,
and her brother John. Sir George recovered after the image was found.
John Stewart, like his mother, was searched for insensible marks, which
were found in great plenty; at the finding whereof he was so confounded
that he immediately confessed his paction with the devil, and that his
accomphces, who formed the effigy with him, were the same his sister
had named. The sister also confessed to a paction with the devil. Upon
the confessions of Stewart and his sister, warrants were granted by the
Earl of Dundonald and Lord Ross for the apprehension of the other
accomplices. The Lords of his Majesty’s Privy Council being informed
of these pictures and effigies, the depositions of three confessing witches
being sent, granted a commission for their trial.
The Commissioners of Justiciary held their first court at Paisley on
the 27th January, before whom Annabel Stewart deposed: “That in
harvest last the devil, in the shape of a black man, had come to her
mother’s house, and required the deponent to give herself up to him,
and that the devil promised she should not want anything that was
good; that being enticed by her mother, Janet Mathie, and Bessie Weir,
who was officer to their several meetings, she did put one of her hands
to the crown of her head and the other to the sole of her foot, and did
give up her soul and body to the devil; that her mother promised her a
I new coat for the doing it, and that the devil gave her the name of
Annipy; that the devil lay with her in the shape of a black man, and
that she found him cold; that she was present in her mother’s house,
where the picture of wax was made, and that it was made to represent
Sir George Maxwell, of Pollock; that the black man, Janet Mathie,her
mother, whose name from the devil was Landlady, Bessie Weir, whose
name was Sopha, Margery Craig, whose name was Rigeru, Margaret
| Jackson, whose name was Locas, were all present at the forming and
making of the said effigy; that they bound it on a spit and turned
it before the fire, and that it was turned by Bessie Weir, all of them
j saying, ‘ Sir George Maxwell! Sir George Maxwell 1 ’ that upon the
3rd of January following Bessie Weir came to her mother’s house, and
! advertised her to come to her brother John Stewart’s house by twelve
o’clock the following night; that she went and found there the above-
mentioned women and her brother John Stewart, and a man with black
I clothes and blue band and white cuffs, and hoggers on his feet, which
j were cloven; that they made the picture of clay, and placed pins in the
sides and breast; that the pictures produced were the pictures she saw
| made; and that the black man’s name was Ejoal.” John Stewart’s
confession was substantially the same as his sister’s; and Margaret
Jackson, a witch of some forty years’ standing, seems to have confirmed
the main points of both the brother and sister’s confessions. The
justices, being again convened in court at Paisley, on February 15th,
j 1677, Stewart and his sister and Margaret Jackson still adhered to their
confessions, but the others remained obstinate, denying all. The justices
having examined all witnesses in matters of fact touching the finding of
\ the effigies, Sir George’s sickness, and the subsequent recovery of his
II health, committed them for trial. Being found guilty, they were condemned
|| to be burnt, and their effigies with them. Annabel was reprieved on
11 account of her nonage and seeming repentance.
OTorreaponTience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers^
PUBLIUS SYRUS.
Sir,—The subjoined paragraph was sent me by Mr. J. L. O'Sullivan,
with a view to insertion in his last letter, under the mistaken impression
that I was resident in London. You, I know, will share my regret that
it could not appear in its proper context:—
“When we consider the rich copiousness of Greek, through the
facility of compounding words (inferior in this respect only to the
German) according to the methods, various while systematic, which are
shown by those words which we do find preserved in its classics, how
can we doubt but that many analogous words existed which yet do not
happen to be found in such works (few after all) as we do happen to
possess ? Suppose that the Alexandrian library had not been destroyed,
would not our lexicons be, in all probability, far bulkier even than they
are ? How many good Greek words do we not ourselves create for the
purposes of scientific terminology ? And, suppose the art of printing
not yet to exist, and that a very, very small proportion of our English
Classics were to survive in manuscript to the year 2076, would there
not be thousands of words, which we now speak and write daily, but
which would be rejected by the purist of that age, on the ground that
they were not to be found in Shakspeare or Spenser, or in Byron,
Dickens, &c.” ■
Mr. O’Sullivan’s remarks are very just. Our knowledge of the Greek
and Latin languages is, after all, too fragmentary to justify us in press¬
ing critical evidence very far. My point against him is merely this,
that, so far as critical evidence goes, it is against the ascription of
the line
Quod perdere vult Jupiter dementat
to an author of the golden age like Publius Syrus; since the verb de-
mentare is found only in a very late author, and is there used intransi¬
tively. Mr. O’Sullivan’s plea for its existence as a transitive verb on
the ground of analogy, I think I have sufficiently shown, in another
letter, to be groundless. But it is perfectly true that numberless words
may have existed in Latin and Greek which have never come down to
us; and if Publius Syrus could make clear his identity on other grounds,
I would be ready to believe in him in spite of the grammar and
dictionary.
While finding myself forced to withhold belief in the personal identity
of Publius Syrus, I am far from attributing self-delusion of any kind to
the persons concerned in this most interesting control; nor do I think
that the alternative necessarily is, between believing in a real return
of Publius Syrus to earth and ascribing the whole course of communi¬
cations to a lying spirit, though I confess it is difficult to throw any
third theory into shape. Time permits me only to make a brief and
imperfect suggestion. Swedenborg tells us that he could see no spirit
of whom he could not form an idea. From this it is a fair inference
that when he did see spirits it was in accordance with his own ideas.
And hereto, as his biographer Mr. White remarks, his own descriptions
of spirits agree. His Pauls and Davids, his Louis Quatorzes and
George the Seconds are the reflection of Ms own opinions and prejudices,
their fate the result of his likes and dislikes. Furthermore, the same
great seer informs us that an angel in talking with a man appropriates
the man’s memory. Mr. White gives us the following extracts:—“ He
enters into the man’s memory so perfectly, that he is almost induced to
believe he knows all the man knows.” . ... “ It is not allowed that any
THE SPIEITUALIST.
166
angel or spirit should speak with man from his own memory, but only
from the man’s.”
These considerations are, I think, sufficient to suggest to the mind that
there may be psychological laws which compel the intelligence with
which we are brought into contact by Spiritualism, to throw itself into
the form of some personality congenial to the mental attitude of the
person communicating. Thus the source of illusion would not be de¬
ceiving spirits but deceptive appearances, which wait yet to have their
mystery unravelled by the progress of investigation.
St. Geobge Stock.
MINISTERING SPIRITS.
Sir,—What say we to the meaning of “ Are they (the angels) not all
ministering spirits sent forth to minister to those who shall be heirs of
life? ” “ All ” I suppose, means all, or does it only mean a few or none f
Ministering must mean ministering as trained nurses minister; not
merely looking on and then skulking back to heaven.
Verily, ghosts are all sent forth to produce the phenomena so many
Christians have perceived, felt, and recognised, as “special providences,”
in answer to their prayers to the Lord God Almighty. This world is a
beautiful world; it is God’s world—not the Devil’s. Devils exist, and
have physical and mental power; but God’s ministering angels exist,
and have greater physical and mental power. The devil among the
tombs had power to harass; the angel who rolled away the stone at the
sepulchre had greater. The physical power exercised when the temple
was rent, when the rocks were split across the veins, and the power dis¬
played by the angel who talked to and worked for Peter in prison, show
that physical phenomena are parts of “ our Father’s ” method of con¬
trolling mind.
From Matthew to Revelations there is not one declaration that
spiritual gifts were to cease. St. Paul’s list stands out clear—miracles,
seeing ghosts, healing, etc.,—one section of Christians having one kind of
gift and not the other; but all gifts when in action through divers persons
producing the evidences of the power of God, and the love of God.
Let our ministers pray in faith and knowledge in churches, in their
vestry meetings, and the descent of influence from the Holy Ghost will
be felt and seen as powerfully as on the day of Pentecost—even to the
tongues of fire, and to a mighty rushing -wind.
Spiritualistic phenomena ought not to be left in the hands of evil
spirits and their Simon Magus mediums, but in the hands of our modern
Pauls, and Peters, and Phillips, and so convince the human family of
a future life of joy or of sorrow when the seen natural flesh body returns
to earth, and the soul and spirit enters on its new phase of immortality.
J. Enmore Jones.
Emnore-park, S.E.
REINCARNATION.
Sir,—You must allow me to differ with you respecting the efficacy of
applying the inductive method as a test to a revelation supported by
argument. That method has proved mighty in matters of fact, but it
has utterly failed when applied to ethics and mental truths. Startling
examples of its inefficacy in the latter direction are to be found in the
conclusions arrived at by Buckle in the analysis of mental laws, by
Gabelli in the analysis of conscience, and still more so in the gigantic
failures of the great apostles of Positivism—Buchner and Comte. You
say that reincarnation would not stand the test of inductive method.
But has it ever been applied to that doctrine? If so, where and when?
I ask this in utter ignorance of the fact. I should indeed like to see
the fourth and fifth chapters of the Spirit Booh placed under its ordeal,
and to stand enlightened by the result. It appears to me that, as
diamond cuts diamond, the best method for proving the fallacy of an
argument is to grapple with that argument itself, and prove its un¬
soundness. G. Dam i an i.
Naples, 25th March, 1876.
[In our articles on The Spirits' Book we pointed out how reincarnation
speculations break down at present when tested by the inductive method.
Will Signor Damiani give one practical example in which the reality of a
universally admitted mental truth is not proved by the inductive method ?
-En.]
THE ROWER OP SPIRITS OVER MATTER.
Sir,—I noticed the thoughtful observations in Miss Kislingbury’s
letter in The Spiritualist of March 24th.
Your correspondent raises the question as to whether spirits of the
highest order have or not absolute power, direct and indirect, over both
mind and matter. Though this, I think, should remain an open ques¬
tion, for it would be bold to hazard a conclusion either one way or the
other, yet we have experience to the contrary of a philosophical nature.
If the higher spirits have a mental tendency to hold aloof from material
manifestations of a low order, it may be presumed that the highest
have a still stronger tendency to do the same, for it will invariably be
found that the more material the manifestations, the more unintellectual
will the spirits prove who dabble in them. In the instance cited of the
Founder of Christianity, there is evidence which goes to prove that he
was assisted by spirits of various grades, for do not the different pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism explain all the miracles of Christ? And in this
connection I would state that your correspondent would be greatly in¬
terested by the perusal of “ Les Quatre Bran piles suivis des commande-
ments, fyc., par Roustaing” to be got from 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
If the question be understood to ask whether the highest spirits have
the power to act on matter by a simple effort of will, I think it will
also be found that there is some experience to the contrary. In Genesis
the Creator Himself is stated to have called our world into being by the
mere fiat of His Word. It is now well known to educated persons that
though the intention must primarily have existed, the process involved
April 7, 1876.
immeasurable cycles, during which the vital mechanical and other laws,
proceeded automatically to evolve from an incoherent chaos the coherent
and habitable globe we are at present inhabiting, and which is develop¬
ing still. In all processes, whether mechanical, or vital, or other, we
perceive laws which become means either in the hands of the Absolute
Cause, or in those of its minor image—Man. B. P. J.
WRITING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—The following lines, written through the mediumship of my
daughter Carrie, were given to us at a seance held at our own home—
present, Mr. Corner, my daughters Carrie and Nina, and myself.
After the poem was finished I requested my daughter Carrie to ask if
any particular spirit were alluded to in the verses. The reply was
“Yes, your sister,”—meaning my eldest daughter, who passed away
about seven years ago, in the twenty-fourth year of her age, and who, I
may add, has been seen by several seers (totally unknown to her while
on earth), and correctly described at different seances I have attended.
Amelia Corner.
3, St. Thomas’s-square, March 31st, 1876.
Say not she is dead—she lives on for ever,
Far in those regions of truth and delight;
Cared for by angel, lost to you never,
Clad in a garment so spotless and white.
Though like the rosebud, so fragile and slight,
Broken and perished by winter’s keen blast;
Yet she’s still living, though lost to your sight,
Waiting to meet you, when all cares are past.
She comes with a step so noiseless and still,
When trouble is nigh, or temptation is strong,
Breathing kind blessings, His word to fulfil,
Turning the wand’rer from pathways of wrong.
She smiles when she sees hearts noble and great,
She breathes words of cheer and beckons them on;
To sinners she sighs “ It is not too late,”
Singing our Saviour’s forgiveness in song.
At times when you’re sad, despondent, and low ;
When all joy seems past, and all hope seems dead
She cheers you with smiles, while her tears freely flow
In sympathy sweet, till your sorrows have fled.
She comes at the dawn of each opening day ;
She comes at the close when dark night is nigh;
She comes, oh so bright! of light as a ray
To soften each heart, to stifle each sigh,
With glance of reproof which reaches the heart,
For conscience is there, though dormant and still,
And when wakened to life will feel the keen dart
Of guilt and of sin—contempt for His will.
Then why should you say your dear one is dead;
That to you she is lost for ever and aye ?
Though her mortal anxieties and passions have fled,
She lives in a land still fairer than day.
DR. WTLD ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—It seems to me that the views I have held for many years re¬
garding the dynamical constitution of physical bodies, if it does not
explain, at least enables us to accept as possible, the alleged appear¬
ance of those presentations which, according to modern language, are
called materialised spirit forms.
Though I am not a Spiritualist, not having had an opportunity of
witnessing and judging for myself, yet I confess I am not one who can
treat with contempt phenomena which are attested by so many seem¬
ingly competent and credible persons in England and America. Per¬
haps it may interest some of your readers if I explain what appears to
be the bearing of my theory on Spiritualism, or at least as regards
these abnormal manifestations to which I have referred. To begin
then, I do not believe in matter in the ordinary sense of the word.
The atoms of which all visible and tangible things consist, I conceive to
be mere centres of force. I gave my reasons for holding this opinion in a
paper read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh (March, 1865), and again
in a recent volume—The Physics and Philosophy of the Senses,
chap. 1. It is acknowledged by philosophers that we never perceive
matter, i.e., the substratum or immediate underlying cause of physical
bodies. We are merely conscious of certain exhibitions of localised
force or energy, as, for instance, of solidity or resisting force of gravity
and inertia forces, acting in different and special ways. Bodies are
visible because of their repelling the luminous vibrations which affect
the eye. Taste and smell again are due to an action on the nerves of
these senses. All these properties of bodies evidently imply energy
or power, and we are conscious of nothing else than force, or the results
of force, in any physical body; physical bodies may therefore be fairly re¬
garded, not as natural, but as dynamical or spiritual. Their atoms are
held together by attractive force, and this force, as modem science has
shown, may be successively resolved into equivalent measures of elec¬
tricity, heat, light, and magnetic attraction. Force acting in any of these
last-mentioned ways I call/ree anatomatic.or transmissible force, while
solid, visible, and tangible bodies I call atomic bodies, because force in
them is localised or materialised in the atomic form, which is not the
case, as far as science has discovered, in transmissible force. When,
therefore, a spirit becomes visible and tangible, according to my theory
it must be held that the spiritual being has the ability of converting
the free an-atomic force which it possesses, and which constitutes in
fact the essence of its being as a spirit, into the atomic constitution
peculiar to visible, solid bodies.
If, then, it can be proved that spirits can thus materialise themselves,
this will furnish strong confirmation of the dynamical theory of the
April 7, 1876,
167
THE SPIRITUALIST.
world which I hold. You may, therefore, believe I am actuated by no
blind prejudice against the phenomena of Spiritualism. But there are
much stronger grounds for a man desiring the establishment of Spirit¬
ualism ; there are grounds connected both with religion and philosophy
which should induce most men to welcome phenomena which, by estab¬
lishing the verity of the supernatural or superphysical, supply a ready
answer to the thousand objections of modern sceptics regarding the
verity of the Gospel narrative. What strength and significance, for
instance, would the phenomena of which we have been talking throw
upon the doctrine of the resurrection and ascension of the body of
Christ!—a doctrine so fondly held and so persistently enforced by the
Apostles who had sojourned with Him in the flesh, but which has been so
scorned by some modern critics as a thing impossible. “ It was sown a
natural body; it was raised a spiritual body.” This assertion offers no
difficulty to any one holding the dynamical theory of matter, and it
occurs to me that this theory may therefore, perhaps, commend itself to
devout Spiritualists as affording a natural explanation of the phenomena
in which they believe. It. S. Wyld.
Edinburgh, 31st March, 1876.
THE SCATTEBGOOD TESTIMONIAL.
Sir,—Will you kindly afford space in your journal to make the fol¬
lowing announcements in connection with the above subject. Addresses
will be delivered at Sowerby Bridge on Sunday, the 9th instant, by Mr.
Jackson, trance medium, at 2.30 and 0.30 p.m. Liverpool the 16th, at
8 p.m., trance address by Miss Longbotham, at 7 by Mr. John Priest,
subject, “ The Resurrection,” to be followed by a discourse from Miss
Longbotham. Manchester, the 23rd, by Mr. John Lamont, at 2.30 p.m.,
subject, “ The Facts and Phenomena of Spiritualism,” and at 6.30 p.m.,
“ The Practical Lessons of Spiritualism.” Bolton, the 23rd, by Mr.
Johnson, of Hyde, trance addresses at 2.30 and 6.30 p.m. Keighley, the
23rd, at 2.30 and 6.30 p.m.; Halifax, the 30th, at 2.30 and 6.30 p.m.,
by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, trance addresses. Oldham, the 30th, at
2.30 and 6.30, by Miss Longbotham, trance address; also at Salford, on
Friday evening, the 21st instant, at 6.30, by Messrs. Johnson and
Lamont. Special collections will be made at the above services for the
benefit of the fund. Arrangements are being made in other places for
lectures, which will be duly announced. In the meantime sympathisers
are invited to send subscriptions to the undersigned, or any member of
the committee.
Mr. Scattergood, being out of employment, sailed for Boston last Tues¬
day ; Mrs. Scattergood sails the latter end of the first week in May.
Under these circumstances, the presentation will be made in the Old
Court House, Union-street, Halifax, on the evening of Tuesday, May
the 1st; tea on the tables at 5.30; business to commence at seven
o’clock; admission to tea one shilling, after tea sixpence.
Mr. Morse, of London; Miss Longbotham, of Halifax ; Mr. John¬
son, of Hyde; and other mediums and friends will take part in the
proceedings.
Signed, on behalf of the committee, John Lamont.
199, London-road, Liverpool.
P.S.—Mrs. Scattergood quite intended to visit London, but the state
of her health renders it impossible for her to do so. J. L.
mr. Blackburn’s seances.
Sir,—At the cabinet seance on Friday last, held at the rooms of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, there were present Miss
Alice Cook, Mrs. Terrell, Mr. J. Deane, Capt. James, Mr. A. Baldwin,
Mrs. Lewis, Mr. J. F. Collingwood, Miss E. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Arthur
Colman, Capt. Thomas, and Capt. Humphrys, besides Miss Kislingbury,
the secretary of the Association, and myself, representing the Seance
Committee.
Mr. Eglinton, the medium, entered the cabinet after it had been
carefully examined by several members of the circle, and reclined on
the couch at the back; and in this position his hands and feet were
bound with tape by a committee of gentlemen. The curtains were
closed and the gas turned down, but almost immediately the invisibles,
by raps, complained that the tying had been very ineffectually per¬
formed, and requested to have it done over again. Joey also, in his
shrill voice, bantered the gentlemen for their want of skill. On the
seance being resumed the spirits again interrupted, saying that the
medium must be seated in a chair nearer the curtain, and they selected
Capt. James to secure him in this position. He was bound in a manner
satisfactory to the circle, and the ends of the tape were brought out into
the room and held by the sitters, so that the slightest movement on the
part of the medium could be at once perceived.
All through the seance the gas was low, but I observed that there was
always light sufficient to enable me to tell the hour by a watch with a
small dial and obscure lettering, and all the sitters were distinctly visible,
so as to be recognisable to each other.
Hands were extruded from the cabinet, both between the curtains
and by the two small side windows—one of which was behind the
medium, about a foot above his head, and the other about six feet in
front of him. His own hands had been secured, so as to allow them at
most three inches latitude of motion. Different members of the party
were requested to come forward and shake hands with Joey, which they
did through the window above mentioned most distant from the medium.
A very strong squeeze was given, and the hand felt warm, dry, and as
if covered with flour. Faces were then exhibited; one, that of a nun,
said to have been a friend of Mrs. Woodforde's; and a small figure,
like a little girl, was seen through a gap in the curtains, standing
between the medium’s knees. Miss Fitz-Gerald was asked by Joey to
stand on a chair and pass her hand through the aperture, and hold the
medium’s head. This she did, and immediately a face was presented
at the window, within about six inches of her face, and the drapery
which enveloped it fell all around her arm. At the same time Mr.
Eglinton’s foot was visible to all in the circle from under the curtain,
and the gentleman holding the tape attached to the medium’s feet
averred that no perceptible pull had occurred. From the opposite
window some of the party saw a luminous face in the distance over the
medium; also the stars so well known as spirit lights.
Joey was asked if, when he is manifesting through the medium, he
is in a different state from that which he is in his spirit-home; if he has,
as it were, to come down; and if he forgets, at least in part, the
knowledge he possesses in his spiritual state. He said: “ Yes, most
certainly; but that he would rather not answer such questions, lest he
should be led into error, or misunderstood. He preferred to leave such
matters to spirits wiser than himself.” At one time he got very angry
at a discussion which sprang up at the far end of the room. He said
such altercations prevented him from operating, and annoyed him
exceedingly, and that we must forgive him for the warmth he displayed.
At the conclusion of the seance the medium was found bound exactly
as we placed him. G. King,
On behalf of the Seance Committee.
38, Great Russell-street, W.C., 3rd April, 1876.
MR. COLMAN’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. Arthur Colman, physical medium, is about to give a series of
sittings under the auspices of Mrs. Woodforde, and friends will be
admitted to the seances under somewhat stringent conditions, calculated
to keep out those persons who persecute or annoy mediums. Last
Saturday night the first of these seances was held at 8, Milton-street,
Dorset-square, and the ease with which the spirits manifested through
Mr. Colman’s mediumship was one of the most remarkable features of
the evening. The manifestations began at once, ,and, generally
speaking, were of the usual character. One part of the seance took
place in the light; a musical box was placed under the table, and was
stopped and set going by the spirits as the sitters requested, and at a
time when Mr. Colman walked away from the table and stood more
than a yard from it. At the dark seance the musical instruments flew
about in the usual way. All present were touched by spirit-hands, and
the spirits brought in a musical instrument of their own, which had
not been previously in the room; it appeared to be a dulcimer, and
some lively tunes were played upon it. The spirits announced that
they intend to give materialised hands through Mr. Colman’s medium-
ship, under test conditions ; they intend to have his head, shoulders,
and arms put in a bag made of strong net, and to have the mouth of
this bag sewed strongly to the bottom of his waistcoat, so that he
cannot get out his arms. Under these conditions they say they will
give spirit-hands.
A Puzzle for the Doctors.—The New York papers contain an
account of a strange case of convulsive seizure, which has baffled the skill
of more than 60 medical men of high standing. The subject of the attack
is a well-to-do farmer residing at Springfield. He is healthy, hearty, and
stout, but on the 14th November, 1858, he was suddenly taken with
convulsions, which lasted until on or about the 28th. Every year for
18 years he has been similarly attacked. Medicines are of no avail
whatever. He is as healthy and strong as ever, and entirely well, with
the exception of these attacks. His convulsions are terrible to witness;
nothing like them has ever before been seen, and perhaps never will.
He experiences no pain while they are upon him, is perfectly conscious
all the time, knows what is going on, but cannot prevent it. His
violence is such that it requires the united strength of five men to hold
him. His contortions are described as simply horrible—every muscle
in his body seems to writhe and twist, his limbs and arms are flung
about convulsively, his face is contorted to a hideous degree, and, as
one informant said, he “ would assume all manner of shapes, actually
tying himself into a knot, until it seemed as though every bone in his
body must break.” The superstitiously inclined attribute it to the
Devil’s machinations, and believe that the man is veritably “ possessed ”
by his Satanic majesty. The people of Springfield are personally con¬
versant with the facts of this case, and numerous persons have witnessed
Mr. Hutchison’s contortions when the “ spirit was at work.”-—27ie Globet
March 21st.
Reception at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s. — On Wednesday
evening last week, at a reception given by Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, to Spiritualistic and other friends,
the following guests were present:*The Countess Paulett, Lady
Milford, Lady Yere Cameron, of Lochiel, Lady Brewster, the Dowager
Lady Cooper, Lady Colquhoun, Le Vicomte de la Taille des Essarts,
Sir George Scott Douglas, Bart., Mr. Clements Markham, Mrs. Mark¬
ham, Major Mackenzie, Mrs. Mackenzie, Mrs. Dalton, General
Brewster, Mrs. Gordon, Miss Gordon, Mr. Haweis, Rev. Dr. Maurice
Davies, Rev. Dr. Cosmo Gordon, Rev. Mr. Haweis, Rev. Mr. Ayton,
Rev. Mr. Fisher, Rsv. Mr. Stainton Moses, Rev. Mr. Hill, M. de Yeh,
Mrs. Strong, the Misses Strong, Mr. Beaumont, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. W.
H. Harrison, Mr. Poyntz Sewart, Miss Rose, Mr. and Mrs. Arbuthnot,
Miss Albert, Mr. Hope, Miss Hope, Mr. Eyre, Mr. St. George, Mr.
Howard, Mrs. Hope, Mr. Bennett, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. Wedgwood,
Mr. Wood, Miss Lottie Fowler, Mr. Ward, Mrs. Ward, Mr. Serjeant
Cox, Mrs. Macdonald, Mr. Percival, Miss Percival, Mr. George Crau-
ford, Miss Hamilton, Miss Cecilia Douglas, Miss Cooper, Mr. Monro,
Mr. Ralph Cameron, and Mrs. Ralph Cameron. Mr. Ward gave several
songs in the course of the evening; his voice is full and rich, and his
enunciation is clear and distinct, which is not always the case with
English singers.
168
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 7, 1876.
MATERIALISM AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
No. I.
BY ST. GEOBGE W. STOCK, M.A. (OXON).
The possession of truth, whether in fact or fancy, ought
to make men tender towards those whom they believe to lack
the same blessing. Intolerance is irrational as well as in¬
jurious. For in truth ignorance is too much of a misfortune
ever to he treated as a fault. This principle at the present
day gains much intellectual, but little emotional acceptance.
The old leaven still works secretly in the loudest advocates
of toleration. For “ knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.”
Human nature does not change in a day ; it is only by slow
degrees that we grow from bad to better:—
u Plurima felix
Paullatim vitia atque errores exuit omnes,
Prima docet rectum SapientiaP
Need we therefore wonder if Spiritualists, as well as other
people, are prone to intolerance? It is against the materialist
that the vials of rhetorical indignation are most often out¬
poured by the Spiritualistic declaimer. Now, in the course
of the following brief remarks, I hope two points will become
plain; Jirst, that materialism does not deserve reprehension,
and, secondly, that if it did, the adherent of modern Spirit¬
ualism would be the very last person who would have a right
to administer it.
We need not commit ourselves to the position that no one
is responsible for his opinions. If men are responsible for
their conduct, they are also responsible for their opinions, in so
far as they flow from habits of mind induced by action. I
hold as firmly as any preacher could desire, that there are
certain truths which a man cannot understand and appre¬
ciate, unless his heart be in a fit state to receive them ; that
“ spiritual things,” in fact “ are spiritually discerned.” But
then I hold that it is only spiritual things which are so
discerned. Now it is often argued that belief in a future life
is just one of those truths which ought to be grasped by the
heart, even where{ the head fails to find due ground for its
acceptance. But plausible as this position may at first sight
appear, it will hardly stand examination. Whether there is
or is not a future life is a question of fact; and granting that
there is, man’s existence in another state of being is a part
of natural history, no less than his existence here. Now it is
absurd to maintain that the heart should inform us as to
matters of fact and scientific truth. Not to know, but to
feel, is the office of the heart; love, reverence, purity, are
the fruits we expect from it. The faith which is rightly
reckoned a virtue is not of the head, but of the heart;
devotion to duty, obedience to the voice of God within.
Love of man, and love of God, which is love of goodness,
are possible to all, even to those who believe they will return
to dust for ever, and who cannot formulate their conception
of the universal soul under the human attributes of person¬
ality. Spiritual graces cannot be killed by any intellectual
system, though they may not develope equally well under all.
There is no merit in the belief in a future life, though there is
much expediency. The lesson of existence is that we should
live for something beyond ourselves, whatever the term of
our life may be. Whoso learns it now, will need but to
practise it hereafter. To him, therefore, who, without the
consoling hope of a future, devotes himself to the welfare of
others, and the cause of goodness, these words would seem in
their truest sense applicable:—u Blessed are they who have
not seen, and yet have believed.” This is indeed the last
great trial to which human faithfulness can be subjected,
that with the “ wages of dust ” for virtue, one should live
the life of an immortal. It is because average human nature
is unable to bear this strain that Sadduceeism is to be depre¬
cated, not denounced.
It will be seen that I have taken materialism at its best,
as of course we are bound to do—as a philosophical persua¬
sion, the result of that intellectual passion for truth which
will not accept any proposition without evidence adequate to
establish it. Of that materialism which is “ of the earth,
earthy,” which shuns the idea of a future because it fears it,
it is not necessary here to speak. But there are persons of
a peculiar organisation, with abundant conscientiousness and
deficient hope, who, while striving to do right to the utmost
of their capacity here, would rather not be called upon to
encounter the same struggle again, and seem actually to dis¬
like the idea of a future life. This is a painful fact, yet I
do not know that it is a very surprising one. The cup of
life is not of such unmixed sweetness that all would seek to
taste it twice. To this we must add that the perverse and
unnatural notions so long current with regard to the future
have made the subject altogether distasteful to many minds,
so that they turn with impatience from the very mention of
it. Let the materialist once fully realise that it is no repul¬
sive supernatural future, with arbitrary assignments of bliss
and woe, which is declared to be in store, but a prolongation,
on a higher plane, of the present life, with its human aims
and interests, and he will embrace the idea with that eager¬
ness which man’s inborn love of existence makes natural.
He will be anxious to believe in immortality, if only he can
find grounds not illusory for so doing. Some bigots perhaps
there will remain so wedded to the conceit of their own
opinions, that they would rather have themselves and their
fellows annihilated than awake to the consciousness of life¬
long error, like Jonah, who would have doomed Nineveh to
destruction to escape the reproach of false prophecy, and
like his Christian antitypes in the present day, who would
be disappointed to find hell a fable. These, however, are
aberrations, and we must judge of every doctrine by its best
adherents.
But if materialism were ever so much to blame, the
Spiritualistic declaimer might at least remember that on
him of all men denunciation sits most ungracefully. When
he can appeal to reason, why have recourse to rhetoric? His
conviction is no mere product of the heart that needs to be
defended by the preacher’s weapons of persuasion and re¬
buke. It is not in the quality of his mind but only in the
accident of his experience that he differs from the very
opponent he denounces. For it is hardly too much to say
that the majority of intelligent Spiritualists would at this
moment be wholly devoid of any belief in a future, if it
were not for the happy enlargement of their experience,
which has enabled them to embrace that belief, while pre¬
serving precisely the same sceptical habit of mind which
leads others into materialism.
But leaving the ethical side of the discussion we must
next proceed to examine as a speculative question the exact
relationship in which materialism and modern Spiritualism
stand to one another. Enthusiastic supporters extol modern
Spiritualism as the antithesis of materialism, and exult in
the death-blow it has dealt its rival; acrimonious opponents
abuse it as no Spiritualism at all, but itself the grossest
materialism. Even prior to investigation the cautious
thinker will suspect the truth to lie somewhere between these
two extremes. But the investigation of this point must
form the substance of my next paper.
On Wednesday night, last week, an excellent amateur entertainment
was given at the Cavendish Rooms, in aid of Dr. Sexton’s organ fund.
Spirit Drapery.—The drapery covering materialised spirits varies-
Sometimes it is of a fabric almost impossible to match in this country,
but more generally it is commonplace stuff which the spirits bring in
during a seance and carry off again before it is over, just as they fetch
and carry fruit and flowers. Not a few of the spirits who produce
physical manifestations lie right and left, and have no moral sense pre¬
venting them from causing their instrument to help them in their mani¬
festations, and to carry drapery into the cabinet in a normal way if they
think they can do so with impunity; but when the sitters put on tests,
as well as at other times when the spirits chance to be honest, the
drapery is brought in abnormally—where from, nobody knows as yet.
An American paper once published that Mr. Barkas, F.G.S., of New¬
castle. turned a boy medium without a rag of clothing on him into a
test cabinet with nothing in it, nothing but floor and bare walls, yet out
came a living form in drapery. If this ever took place, it is another of
the good tests relating to spirit drapery.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
G. (Southampton).—Your letter on business matters being addressed to the
Editor, Was sent to him while he was in the country, consequently it was
not promptly attended to. Other correspondents also cause delays by not
attending to the instructions about addressing letters, printed regularly on
the first page of this journal. Others, again, by sending communications
1 in the middle of the week, which they could just as easily have sent at the
beginning, frequently cause a week’s delay in publication. Some corre¬
spondents, we regret to say, sometimes send as special contributions to this
journal, communications which are merely circulars, without any statement
that they are circular letters—a breach of literary etiquette and natural
good taste; their subsequent missives are consequently treated with caution
on receipt.
THE SPIRITUALIST
111
Apeil 7, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER.
88, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by tbe Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, • by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERK ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. XL, by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic! Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—^“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man In the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
abiflty, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mounlford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament ana the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo„
500 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens * these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometiir^s inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opini*i that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aftrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
, n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, IDs. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
•LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM, MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. '
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance sneaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
ex]>eriments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, fis. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevier. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIESOFINFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s..
THE COMING MAN. By tbe Rev. James Smith,
. formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." A
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 16 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ HI. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. ,, Y. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for che Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . , .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . ,36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .70
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims ... 26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . , , .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
. 24 0
recom-
. 2 6
. 6 0
14 0
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
mended by The Spiiutualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds ......
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing i
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .6
History of American Socialisms ’(Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10:
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans,ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. , 10
Awas-I-Hind.; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by^James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . .2
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . '12
Son, Remember; an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paid, B. A . . .3
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . .' . . .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . .10
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . . 1
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten: 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mia. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF HR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of; Spiritualism, by
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young, fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brerior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRAC LE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 7; 1876,
DALSTON ASSOCIATION^ OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM. .
ESTABLISHED 1870. .
In alliance with the'British National’Association of Spiritualists.
President :
HENRY D. JENCKEN,* ESQ.,
(Barrisier-at-Jjaw, Member of Coupcil and Hoiiorary Secretary
of the Association for the-Reform and'Codiflcfctioti of,
theLa^'pf ArttUons.)'’4, . ^ §6jf3R
’ . TCOTOpL:,
Mrs. O.Ada Blyton, , .’Mr- Jonathan Tozeiand,
Mr* Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell; ' Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mf. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—>74, Navarino-road, DAlston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus. .
The objects, of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting. Spiritualism ; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
’Ordinary experimental seances are'held weekly,on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members .of similar Associations which -reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can lonly be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, oh introduction
by a Member.. The last Thursday evening in each' month is devoted
tolspecial seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, orinarration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as-are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for *
such ordinary meetings .as may be. of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are' also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society m reciprocity^
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations. ^
In addition to the.weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have "the privilege of attending; the public seances of:
several .well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees,’particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretaryand, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. ‘All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members. ■
The alliance existing between tins association1 and the “British-
National Association of Spiritualistswill greatly assist''the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as -amongst the-'objects'''for which' that
Association was established in 1873 are the following.; viz.: -
■ (“To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving“
publicity to the results-of such researches: to'afford information''to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and .
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
AH communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, NavarinO-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules; circle regulations,.
directions how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of'books in -
the library, with any further infonnation, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of-March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Pi ice 7s. fid., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN.. Tenth edittori. This volume opens
w^h the wonderful experiences ‘6f the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a fratce'medium and public speaher. Her
platform labours hjve for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses- have ex¬
tended her influence, far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the. press. This -volume contains the
gems, pf the inspirhtiphal utterances, given chiefly before
ptrtlic ■ audiences', undOr direct spirit influence. - Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A, Poe. They have
the rythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
.succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the wor®. The peculiar influence which' each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and- significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion isppurtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Bqston^UrS.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit-
Office,flS, GreatRussell-street. ’. >.-j
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views and Nonconformist,' desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family parly of two or
three ladies.1« Young orphan ladies would find this- a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining-the. classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tipnately less'for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernard-
viflas, Upper Norwood. ' _ _ *’* ' Y.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT*LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of; the Spiritual
PhilOsuphy. ' Of "practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of-deducing al consistent system of faith concerning jthe
future, its rewards and punishments. &c., as it^stablishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, hut enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Giyen inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s," Od, ^Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, GreatRussell-
street, London, W.O.    
The trapped medium • or, the two
■ CLEVER. SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This. brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z.. B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Prqtoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, ( O^d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office,' 38, ‘.Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena. •
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, GranviUe-squaro, Louden, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.1
i TESTIMONIAL TO -MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN. ^
COMMITTEE: '
i Countess Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Hert§.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy,
t S. C. Hall, Esq , 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
} Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
•; Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
I- Vfi Jd.’Wilkinson; Esq^ 44, Lincoln’s -inn-fields.
' Al A. WattS,’'E^q.;'H9fLansdowne-r6ad, Notting-hill, W.
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142,.Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland; Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandaie, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Uloueester-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A.'Leighton, Esq.,' 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
; Epes Sargent,.Esq.f Boston, U.S.A.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixpu, Esq., M.D.. 8 Great Ormond-street, W.C.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. O. Oopperthwaite, Esq., Maltou, Yorkshire.
: Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
! The Hon. J.^O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
* Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler,’Pans.
; H.ay Nisbet, Esq., 219, Ge rge-sireet, Glasgow.
Mrs. Col.'Hamilton, York-place, Ponman-square.
' John Lamont, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater; Esq!; 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westbourne-
park. j >
Subscriptions will , he received and duly acknowledged by
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square,' South Kensington.
Just Published price 10s. 6d.
THE' MECHANISM OF MAN; An Answer
to the Question, ‘-.What am I? ” A Popular Introduc-
;,tion to Psychology and Menial Physiology.:. By Edward W.
iCoi, Serjeant-at-Law, President o? the Psychological Society
'of Great Britain,, Vol. I., The Mechanism. Contents—Parti,
Introductory;'Part 2,' The Mechanism; Tart 8, The Forces
that Move and Direct the Mechanism—Life, Mind, Soul.
_ London: Longmans and Co.
The BANNER of LIGHT: The oldest
journal-"devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large dorps of able writers. The Banner is a Hrst-Class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical;and scientific subjects; editorial department;
gpirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented ■
yvriters in the world, &c., <fcc. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s, per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Bus sell-street, London, W.O.
STRANGE VISITORS—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis,'Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and'others;- These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while-in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and' enthralling nature, ploth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office; 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
IO U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly '
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great antbors of ancient
time the fruits of their .researches into.the secrets of nature-
and the laws of the Spiritual. Universe. On: the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dences, . ‘I -
Published weekly. Sci. Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices,, 18, Exchange-street, and. 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now, in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper1 branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main objec t .of this hook is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we. of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had.' More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives In proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet which are sustained by evidence as
Strong as that which daily detennines. in. our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in die Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of 'Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
1 The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister fur over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrammeled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
it contains thirty-two pages of leading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annnm. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.C.
rpHE ALPHA i OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE HOMAN MIN D; A,Bevelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steer Portrait of the Author
I E. N. Dennys. “We can call to mind few books fit to be its
(fellows.”—Athenxum. “It ''contains more truth, poetry,
| philosophy,.and logip, than any work we have ever read;
; it is'a hew revelation,' and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever giyen to,the world.”—Cosmopolitan. % .
| Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on tone^, paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rpnfe RELIGION''.OF life; as EXEM-
JL PLIFIED, BY THE -MAN.JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of (he topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil?'Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;" The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God;^ Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? Theone
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Begenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in A,ction; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done np in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES’’ and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make ’
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SP1RIT-
- - UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
6ffice at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiiitual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
,To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
(others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks' time.
1 Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
iwhh copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales. .
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritmlist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.O.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics a*
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
istsinallthe English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influeutial body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of "Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns'are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.U.S., Editor of the “Quarterly1 Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to' the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause):' Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayii-Wittgeiistein (Wies¬
baden) : The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchteuberg:
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.8.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougair Gregory: the Hon.'Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Iinperkd
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order Of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. II. M. IXunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templemap Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J. C. Luxinoore; Mr. John II Purdon, M.B. (India): Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Miv Charles Blackburn ; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wasou; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the."Life of Swedenborg”]; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. 8. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. ill. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United.Kingdom. 10s. lOd
To residents iu the United States, "4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid In to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomeiy-placo,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “The Manager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C.”
[December, 1876.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
