(
AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 114.—(Yol. V.—No. 18.) LONDON: OCTOBER 30j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
OTontentsi*
The TTses and Abuses of Authority 
Reliable Prophetic Warnings:—Death by a Fall into Machinery Fore¬
told—Warning of a Railway Accident—The Life of a Railway Guard
Saved     
Clairvoyance in a Dream   
A Spirit Message on “ Providence.” No. L 
Indian Jugglery:—The Rapid Growth of a Mango-tree—The Real
Indian Basket Feat   • 
Levitation of a Materialised Spirit   
The Duke of Northumberland and the Irvingites ..
Weighing Materialised Spirits 
Stance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s  
Powerful New Mediums in London:—The Mediumship of Mr. and Mrs.
Davis and Family; also of Messrs. Shrewsbree, Hender, Eglington,
and William Haxby 
Cremation...    
Union among Spiritualists. By Thomas Gales Forster
Mills on Fire Seen by a Distant Clairvoyant 
The Cavendish Room Meetings 
Poetry:—Theodore Tilton. By Gerald Massey 
Correspondence:—A Public Building for Spiritualists, 214; A Rod
Seance, 214; Spiritualism in Darlington, 215; Spirit, Soul, and Body,
215; Mechanicalism, 215; Scientific Materialism   
Paragraphs:—Books on Spiritualists, 209; Spiritualism in East Lon¬
don, 209; Miss Wood’s Mediumship, 216 ; Mr. Morse’s Voyage, 216;
Spiritualism in Liverpool, 216; Spiritualism in Newcastle 
Answers to Correspondents ... .-.   
205
215
BAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 <£ 26 Viet., cap. 89)
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OP ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
If preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
SVwitees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray, Bart., James White, .Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael .Angelo, Esq.,
William Berry, Esq., John Brown, Esq., Courtenay Clarke, Esq., Arthur
lago, Esq., Lord Frederick H. Kerr, M. E. Marsden, E*«i., xt. II Martin,
Esq., M.A., F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq.,
Major J. 0. Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
AttdWori.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
‘ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
“ A.” Death only.
“ B.’’ Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
£
1000
500
250
100
1000
500
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
£ s.d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
6 0 0
3 0 0
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
110
0 11 6
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
2 0 12 6
0 0 12 6
Paymt
within
TwoYrs
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6
Agent—MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
beral discount for cash.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-towh, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT TEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
Alexander Calder, Esq.. The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.; Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the.doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the mpst compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-iane, E.C.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, LifegeP
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
KEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Poet
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie. _
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST. Oct. 30, 1874.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason >Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. GF. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Gasson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412,' cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OR ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.,, Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British Nationai, Association
of Spiritualists. By Aloernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal Magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIYE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Baillihre •& Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
1.—What are Angels? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do ? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
iand Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Three Months, 75 cents.
, C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.'
The following discussions will be held at these Rooms as follows:—
Wednesday, Oct.\Ath.—“ Is it expedient to retain the present fashion of
English spelling ? ” Opened by Mr. Bull.
Wednesday, Oct. 21s£.—“Cremation.” Opened by Mr. Paul.
Wednesday, Oct. 28<A.—“ Is everlasting punishment taught in the New
Testament ?” Opened by Mr. Hunt.
* Wednesday, Nov. ith.—“ Capital punishment.” Opened by Mr. Moore.
Admission 2d. Commence at 8 o’clock.
C. J. Hunt, Secretary.
GOSWELL HALL.
TVfRS. BULLOCK (Trance Speaker) will LECTURE
-I’J- on SUNDAY EVENINGS (commencing on the 27th of September),
at GOSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E C.
Lectures on the following Subjects will be given by Mrs. BULLOCK,
under the Influence of her Spirit-guides: —
October 4th. “Death Destroyed; or, Man’s Eternal Career proved by
Modern Spiritualism.”
October 11th.—“Nature, and the Laws of Nature; the Lesson of Life.”
October 18th.—“The essence of the Spirit of God.”
October 25th.—“The Unity of Spiritual Truths.”
November 1st.—“The Celestial Heaven.”
After this, Course subjects for Lectures may be selected by the
Audience. Doors open at 6 30, service at 7. Investigators and others,
desiring information, may communicate with Mr. JOHN W. HAXBY, 8,
Sandall-road, Camden Town, N. W.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence. .
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, Ac
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
“PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.”
THIS is so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send-your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, .as follows:—For No 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, 10s.; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. 6d.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4, All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.
PENTON TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
26, PENTON-STREET, N.
EVERITT & SON desire the attention of their friends and the public
generally to the new and varied stock of Autumn and winter goods they
have just received.
Strong durable hard wearing overcoats from 35s.
Strong winter trousers from 14s 6d.
We have a large stock of fancy materials suitable for every article of
Gentlemen’s attire.
Our £2 2s. woaded black cloth frock coats and £1 black doe trousers
which have given such great satisfaction for the last twenty-five years, are
still noted for good quality and durability.
-4 trial is respectfully solicited.
VOiLUJVlE FIVE.' JMUJ^BEF\ EIQHTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30th, 1874
Spratalxst
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words; and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorkespondenoe.—Correspondents who'write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning.. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will he posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Ann delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.'
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street."
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, <Stc., 154, Bourke-street.
Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fifzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
jmEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Oflces—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE USES AND ABUSES OF AUTHORITY.
Mr. Algernon Joy has forwarded us the following
letter for publication
Dear Mr. Joy,—One of the arguments in favour of
National Organisation is the fact that the world in
general has a tendency (not from weak-mindedness, but
from want of time to investigate all matters personally)
to receive truth on authority. The existence of a
powerful and respectable body such as the “British
National” bids fair to become, publicly giving their
names and staking their reputation in support of an
unpopular truth, will stand, to the less deeply-thinking
majority of all classes, as a guarantee for the genuine¬
ness of a certain amount, at least, of facts and pheno¬
mena, and will thus pave the way for the acceptance of
the truth when it is more immediately presented to
them.
This does not in the least imply that the British
National members wish to set themselves up as an
authority io their brethren. Their constitution is formed
with the view to guard against such a result, and the
right of free-thought is their acknowledged, though
unwritten, charter. But it is quite certain, and is in
the history of all science, that, so sota as its teachers
and leaders are found to be men of influence and
standing, that science forthwith becomes an accepted
fact, which no one thinks any longer of doubting, and
people begin at once, without further questioning, to
shape their lives in accordance with a belief which they
do not need to prove for themselves, seeing that it
is proved already by those who have given up their
lives to the research, and whose disinterestedness and
judgment they have good reason to trust.
The facts of astronomy, geology, chemistry, ana¬
tomy, and (until lately) all history, are accepted in this
way, and with beneficial results. Life is not long
enough for every one to “ prove again the proved: ”
besides, there are thousands who are not in a position
to do it, and are they, therefore, to be left in ignorance
of the most vital truths ? I think it is the imperative
duty of those who know—as the Gladstone Govern¬
ment had the sense to see—not only to provide for the
instruction of the ignorant, but to force it upon them.
We do not wish to use extreme measures in Spirit¬
ualism, but we can, by procuring the support and
sanction of a body of earnest and intelligent men, in¬
vest those studies, which have hitherto been regarded
as empirical by the public, with a dignity and import¬
ance which they cannot at present be said to enjoy.
Authority, which Mr. Howitt has made into a bug¬
bear, has its legitimate as well as its illegitimate uses.
If our cause be right and true, we cannot help uniting,
and if united, we cannot help being strong, and exer¬
cising an unconscious influence. To refuse to wield
consciously and for noblest uses, that power which will
’work in spite of all curbs or wilful ignoring, is the most
absurd childishness, and looks like a want of confidence
206
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 30, 1874.
in the Providence which has placed the power in our
hands. It is for us to see only that our human organi¬
sations are inspired by heavenly impulses, and that we
are true to our highest spiritual promptings. And if
in von populi is most surely to he heard vox Dei, then
it will be the fault of those who hold back from us if
we do not hear or interpret that voice aright.
Emily Kislingbuby.
Crickleaze, Chard, Oct. 17th, 1874.
RELIABLE PROPHETIC WARNINGS.
Euttibe events are sometimes revealed in vision or
otherwise, and this is perhaps the most inexplicable of
all the phenomena of Spiritualism. Mr. Robert Dale
Owen tries to account for'the fact, by supposing that
something deeply hidden in man’s spiritual nature, is the
complement of memory; however that may be, the best
step towards the solution of the problem which can be
taken at present, is to collect well-authenticated facts
on the subject. The Religio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago), of Oct. 17th, contains the following state¬
ments, made by Mr. D. Winder, of Oxford, Ohio :—
^DEATH BY A FALL INTO MACHINEBY EOBETOLB.
1. In a certain town in Ohio, not far from my
present place of residence, there lived an aged widow
lady, who was supported by the labour of her only son,
whose occupation was that of a sawyer. He was
engaged at work in a steam saw-mill, and had control
of the engine. His mother was a thoughtful, pious
lady. On a certain night, she dreamed that her son, on
starting his engine, was caught in the machinery, and
instantly killed. She awoke under excitement and
sorrow, as real as if the catastrophe had happened.
This terrible dream was repeated three times during the
night. In the morning she was depressed in spirit,
and prompted to urge her son not to go to the mill that
day, relating to him her nocturnal experience and
premonitions, assuring him of her convictions that
a higher power had something to do in the case. Her
son, however, regarded the matter as “nothing but
a dream; ” and being unwilling to discommode his
employer on such grounds, went, regardless of her tears
and entreaties, started his engine, was caught in the
fly-wheel, and instantly killed. The life of Jesus was
saved from the edict of Herod by the dreams of his
parents (See Matt., chap. 2).
WABNING OP A EAILWAY ACCIDENT.
2. The Cincinnati and Marietta Railroad passes
through a region of country remarkable for its many
deep ravines, which required immense fills in its con¬
struction, with large culverts for the passage of water,
which accumulated in the ravines during heavy rains.
Near one of these culverts there lived a farmer, who
had immigrated from Pennsylvania. On a certain
night, after an immense fall of rain, this farmer, having
retired to bed, on falling asleep, dreamed that the cul¬
vert had given way, the fill washed out, and the
passenger train of some six or eight cars, due some
time during the night, had been precipitated into the
terrible gulf below. He awakened in a state of ex¬
citement and anxiety; but as it was “ only a dream,”
he tried to compose himself, and soon fell into a second
slumber, when the same scene presented itself to his
mind with increased horror. He awakened in a state
of agitation beyond his control; dressed himself in
great haste, and with his lantern started for the place
of the foreboded disaster with all possible despatch.
On arriving at the culvert, to his extreme horror he
found the culvert was gone, and the fill partially washed
away, while ties and rails were suspended in the air,
with merely support enough to bear their own weight.
He knew the train would be due in a very short time,
and would approach the chasm from the opposite side.
He clambered across the tottering track to the other
side ; and with his lantern ran in the direction of the
approaching train, the rumble of which he could then
distinctly hear. He ran with all his might, swinging
his light to attract attention ; which, fortunately, was
discovered by the engineer just in time to save the
train from being precipitated to certain destruction.
The farmer was rewarded by the company with a free
pass on the road for himself and family during life.
THE LIFE OF A BAILWAY GTTABD SAVED.
3. On the same road, the following very remarkable
incident occurred : The conductor of the train had
occasion to step out on the platform of the car. He
left the door open behind him, intending to return
immediately. While standing on the platform, he felt
the sudden grasp of a hand upon his shoulder, as though
an attempt were made to pull him inside the door. He
looked suddenly around, and perceiving that no person
was near, became alarmed at the phenomenon, and
sprang into the car just in time to save his life, as a
collision instantly occurred, smashing the platform upon
which he had been standing to pieces.
GLAIRY0YANCE IN A DREAM.
The following is an extract from a private letter
dated Davenport, Iowa, Sept. 28th, 1874, and com¬
municated to the Boston Evening Transcript of Oct.
2nd. The writer of the letter is Mrs. Henry B.
Hoffman of Davenport, a sister of Mr. Epes Sargent,
and the incident is thoroughly authenticated. Bishop
Lee, of the American Episcopal Church, died on the
26th of September last:—
“ We have been very anxious the last two weeks
over the illness of Bishop Lee, which terminated in his
death on Saturday morning. The whole community is
saddened by the event. Some two months ago he got
up in the night and took a bath, and on returning to
his room he made a mistake and stepped off a long flight
of stairs, and landed at the foot with a tremendous
crash, as he was very heavy, weighing ove# two
hundred pounds. It aroused the whole family; Mrs.
Lee and Carrie sprang from their beds, and lighting
each a candle, went to see what had happened, and
found the bishop lying on the floor of the entry. He
got up, however, without aid, and seemed to have
received no injury except a few slight bruises, though
his right hand was a little lamed.
“ Mr. Hoffman and myself called on him two days
after, and while telling us the circumstance of the fall,
he mentioned this coincidence : He had a letter in his
hand, which he had just received from his son Henry,
living at Kansas City. His son wrote, u Are you
well; for last night I had a dream that troubles
me. I heard a crash, and standing up said to my wife,
* Did you hear that crash ? I dreamed that father had
a fall and was dead.’ I got up and looked at my watch,
and it was two o’clock. I could not sleep again,.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
Oct. SO, 1874.
so vivid was the dream.’ And it made him anxious to
hear from home.
“ The bishop said he was not superstitious, but
he thought it remarkable that Henry should have had
the dream at the very hour of the same night that the
accident occurred. The difference in the time there
and here is just fifteen minutes, and it was a quarter past
two by his watch, making it at the same moment. It
was as if he had actually heard the fall. And the fall
finally caused the bishop’s death. His hand became
intensely painful, and gangrene set in, which, after two
weeks of suffering, terminated his life. We are none
of us Spiritualists, as you know, but surely facts like
this must go far to make us realise that there is a basis
of truth for their hypothesis' of spiritual faculties
resident in man. How did Henry Lee become cognizant
of the accident to his father ?”
A SPIRIT MESSAGE ON « PROVIDENCE.” *
No. I.
I have pointed out to you, that to the Creator of an infinite
universe either all things must be trivial, or none. If your
fate is insignificant in His eyes, so likewise must be the globe
you inhabit—a mere infinitesimal speck in the boundless
realms of space, and amidst the countless myriads of orbs
that people it. Now all the conclusions of sound logic, as
opposed to sophistry, flatly contradict your surmise.
*****
I start from this evident logical premise, which might be
demonstrated in countless ways, but does not require it, inas¬
much as it must be self-evident that where a world can be
created and set in motion as easily as an atom, and a universe
as easily as a world, and without any greater expenditure, in
so far as loss of time, loss of substance, or power, or any of
the other consuming processes which constitute the diffi¬
culties and sacrifices of outlay or enterprise in human con¬
ditions ; in the estimation of the omnipotent, omniscient, and
eternal Creator, there can be no material difference in the
consequence or the value of either, intrinsically estimated.
This is clear, and easy of apprehension, even on worldly
grounds. The importance of everything here below consists
mainly in the cost of the outlay necessary to obtain or to
achieve it, whether of time or life, of property or of effort,
moral or physical, and the difficulties that stand in the way of
its acquisition, acting as an insurmountable impediment to its
falling into the attributions or possessions of the many.
Thus, I have already pointed out to you that if genius and
intellect of a high order were common to the mass, they would
lose half their value and all their charm and satisfaction.
It is this perplexing problem of preserving to all the higher
qualifications and brighter crowns of spiritual existence their
rarity, their value, and their exquisite attractions, without in
the least infringing the law of justice, or creating a privileged
class, to the detriment of the iniquitously disinherited
majority, which the Almighty Wisdom has so admirably
solved in the wondrously sublime scheme of creation; and on
which all human schemes of government and social institu¬
tions have been so fatally wrecked. You know how this has
been brought about in both cases.
The instinct of aspiring to distinctions and superiority over
the common herd is innate in the human soul, and arises
from the inherent aspirations of the spirit to achieve per¬
fection and remount to its source, which it perpetually
aspires to rejoin, precisely on the principle of sympathetic
affinity known in chemistry, or the water that seeks to
remount to its own level. In their idleness, incapacity, and
sensuality, men have seen no better way to achieve this yearning,
than to raise themselves above their fellows by fictitious
hereditary distinctions of no difficult acquirement, and the
acquisition of material wealth; the latter is at once of much
more facile gain and more tangible importance to vulgar
animal natures, in a vulgar age, when all vulgar instincts are
in the ascendant, and when spiritual intuition and science are
smothered by the stultifying obtuseness of fleshly lusts, and
* This communication was given through writing mediumship, in reply
to the doubts of the medium as to the possibility of a special Providence
taking cognizance of the private concerns of individuals, as the spirits
affirmed.
all they generate, as a necessary sequel. Such being the case,
wherever matter gets the upper hand of spirit, wherever earth
supersedes heaven in the spirit of the age, it follows that the
perverted minds of men follow out naturally their own bent,
and their instinct of soaring like all else, becomes that of
elevating themselves above their fellows by extrinsic—i.e.,
perishable temporalities—rather than by spiritual and intrinsic
—i.e., eternal acquisitions and merits.
Hence proceed aristocracies and monarchies, millionaires
and ■parvenus, and all the vices, wrongs, infamies, absurdities,
and evils they originate. But you perceive that all this pro¬
ceeds from two sources—blindness, and the aspiration to rise,
misdirected and misconceived.
This aspiration is always relative, dependent on the diffi¬
culties it demands, on the exclusiveness it implies.
If dukes were as numerous as commoners, and dukedoms as
easily attained as squireships or baronetcies, they would not
tempt one more than others.
If anything is within reach of the mass, it ceases to become
a distinction. I mean, if the majority are able to acquire it.
All things are valuable on earth in the proportion of their
scarcity or their cost.
You object to this * that health is most valuable, costs
nothing, and generally falls to the lot of the working-classes.f
Your cavil is but a confirmation of my argument. Health
is valued only in proportion to the difficulty of obtaining it.
The robust labourer never dreams of congratulating himself
on his health, or valuing it at all, in comparison to the boons
possessed by the envied Dives. The dyspeptic Dives sighs for
health in proportion to his difficulty in obtaining it.
You say there are things that are intrinsically valuable,
independently of these or any other considerations; and ask
me to dispose of this cavil, if I can. Thus you ask if beauty,
harmony, symmetry, excellence, perfection, genius, are not
good in themselves, independently of all scarcity, or all
standards of comparison ?
You are shirking the point at issue, and not touching the
point of the dilemma at all.
I never questioned that there are things excellent in them¬
selves, although, strictly speaking, every excellence is com¬
parative, hence arbitrary; short of the absolute, which is only
ultimated in God.
Thus, those whose character and qualifications make them
take rank as good, beautiful, learned, accomplished, highly-
gifted on earth, are very far below the mark of spirits of the
same calibre, enjoying all the privileges of their sphere of
spirit life. These latter would fall very far short of angels, of
seraphs, archangels, and all the hierarchy of heaven. But
what I am at present discussing is the value of things, the
estimation in which they are held, and the importance they
claim.
You see my point and cavil again, that supposing value to
be a relative quality, dependent on the three conditions afore¬
said, the importance of a thing might be wholly distinct from
it, inasmuch as the second depends on the aims in view and
the nature of the results susceptible of being brought about.
This is true to a certain extent, but I will dispose of it sub¬
sequently. You had better let me proceed my own way, with¬
out interrupting the development of the ratiocination. I see
your thoughts,J and will elucidate all the flaws you discover,
or fancy you discover, in the proper place.
To continue then : We are at present discussing the value
of things. If a baronetcy were as rare as a dukedom, as
difficult to obtain, it is self-evident that the one would be as
valuable and as much sought after as the other. If there
were no outlay of time, substance, or sacrifice requisite to
become rich every one would be rolling in gold, riches would
become a drug, and men would have to seek for new paths to
distinction.
If men could obtain as much from a peapod as from a
guinea they would as soon have the one as the other. If an
electric spark could produce more astonishing results than an
army, they would value an electric spark more than a million
of soldiers. If a worm could bring forth a phoenix, they
would prefer it to the winner of the Derby, or the white
elephant of the King of Siam; in their practical estimation,
a phoenix being still more scarce, would fetch a higher price;
* The spirit here replies to the thoughts passing through the mind of
his medium.
f The Registrar-General’s returns show that this is not the case in
England. It may be different in Italy, where the medium resides through
whom this communication was given.—Ed.
t The spirits are as intolerant of interruption as men, but nevertheless
condescend to explain all things rationally to minds such as mine, which
demand proof.—The Medium,
208
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 30, 1874.
and if they realised the fact that of a spirit they can, by proper
nurture, cultivation, and sacrifice, make a God, endowed with
all the gifts, attributes, transcendent privileges, passions, and
beatitude of divinity, second only to the Supreme Creator,
and that god themselves, think you they would not sacrifice
for so lofty a scope more than they do every hour of their
lives to attain to the most unsatisfactory enjoyments and the
most paltry of possessions ?
This, though only parenthetically introduced here, leads me
to the gist of our controversy. The arguments on which you
question the special providence of God are several, and I will
here resume them. You think the rise or fall of an infini¬
tesimal human soul must be altogether trivial and unimpor¬
tant to the Creator and ruler of a boundless universe.
In the first place, in a universe composed not of a concrete,
indivisible mass, but of an infinitesimal multitude of atoms
of matter and spirit, the individual atom is of as much con¬
sequence as the world or the universe, so far as its ordination,
disposal, and direction go. As I have before stated, the
anarchical disturbance of a single crystal, the abandonment of
its minutest grains to lawless chance may, and must be, the
disorganisation of the entire mass ; for the anarchy cannot be
partial; the law must or must not exist, must rule all or none.
If one atom can be supposed to drift, independently of pro¬
vidential guidance, so may myriads, and myriads constitute
worlds.* If the one world can drift to a chaos by the absence
of law and providence, so must the universe at large.
This argument applies equally to spirit and to matter.
Nations are likewise only agglomerations of individual units
or atoms, bound together by certain affinities of nature, such
as sympathy, and by relations of time, place, and circum-
stance.f Not a thing affects the unit without affecting its
surroundings, and these their surroundings again, till together
they embrace a world, and a world the universe of worlds.
Here follows the moral that not the minutest unit of
atoms, or of spirit, can be unimportant in the eyes of aught
save ignorance, inasmuch as atoms rule the world, under God,
and their operations are as vast as infinitude, and as incalula-
ble. Secondly, the importance of a thing depends on its
estimation. This depends on the threefold conditions of
difficulty, cost, and distinction, that is, elevation above the
rest, through exclusiveness and quality. Now, therefore, what
greater importance can a world or a universe have in God’s
eyes than an individual unit ? To one who has but to will in
order to achieve, who says “ Let there be light! ” and it is;
“Let there be worlds,” and lo! they are; “Let there be a
soul,” and it leaps into existence, what difference is there
between the one and the other ? He expends no more time, or
effort, or substance, or will on the one than on the other. It
is identical to Him to will the creation of a soul as of a world.
He is no more exhausted by the last than by the first. He
can as easily call into being in another instant, or simul¬
taneously, a second universe as a second soul.
On one count of valuation—that of outlay—it is evident,
therefore, that a world can have no greater value in his eyes
than a soul.
There remain the two counts of quality and. results, or ulti_-
mate aims and fruition. Now, so far as quality goes, what
comparison can be instituted between matter and spirit ? The
most magnificent continent, with all its treasures of buried
mines and natural beauties, is less wonderful, less miraculous,
and less interesting than the most minute animalcule that
lives and moves, and performs even the most infinitesimal
portion of the functions of spirit. Observe, too, that the
more wonderful, the more sensitive, and the more interesting
does life grow as it draws nearer and nearer to those higher
conditions where animal existence becomes developed into
reason, and reason into the higher intellectual developments
of spirit.
When at last it culminates on earthly spheres in the pro¬
gressed form of humanity,! how sublime it becomes in those
higher organisations which recognise their immortal destinies
and follow the true path of angelic progress !
Say, which then do you think most interesting, or most
important, or most miraculous, the mind and the science of a
* It seems to me that this is the most incontrovertible argument that can
possibly be adduced in favour of special providence, and one which, as
far as t am aware, neither theologians nor philosophers have hit upon.—
The Medium.
| This bears out the argument that nations being as it were only col¬
lective individuals, What would be base, or wrong, or cowardly, on the part
of an individual, is equally so in a nation, and egotism last not least.—The
Medium.
t The spirit holds the doctrine of the passage of all souls through suc¬
cessive transmigrations from animals of every degree to man, and thence
through all the celestial hierarchy, according to deserts.—The Medium.
Humboldt, a Franklin, a Lyell, an Arago, the imagination and
the genius of a Shakespeare or a Byron, or the greatest
baobab-tree that ever astonished sightseers for an unlimited
number of centuries, or any other physical phenomenon of a
physical globe ?
INDIAN JUGGLERY.
The following narrative was written by a surgeon, a friend
of Mrs. De Morgan; he visited London some months ago, and
spent much time observing spiritual phenomena. He is now
in San Francisco, and published the following account in
Common-Sense, of Oct. 5th last:—
THE EAPID GBOWTH OP A MAhTGO-TE.EE.
In December, 1854,1 was at Madras, surgeon of an East
Indiaman. One evening half-a-dozen of the officers of the
ship were on shore at the Clarendon Hotel, to witness the per¬
formances of some of the. witches or jugglers, who had been
engaged by a native known to one of us, to come and perform
for us. As we sat sipping champagne and smoking cheroots,
on the broad flat asphalte roof of the hotel, in the cool of the
afternoon, enjoying the fresh sea breeze, two withered old hags,
a fine handsome young man, and a girl of about sixteen, made
their appearance. A crowd of natives, chiefly servants of the
hotel, followed them. The two old ladies first stepped forward
bearing a basket of earth, and a chatty of water, and after
salaaming, proposed to grow us a mango-tree right there on
the asphalte. They set down their baskets and chatty, and
then allowed us to examine their very scanty clothing. We
formed a circle round them, and the natives closed up behind
us. The old ladies first of all poured out the earth in a little
heap upon the asphalte. They then stuck three sticks, about
three feet high, in the earth to make the framework of a small
tent. Then one of them took a dry mango-stone and handed
it around for inspection; it was as dry as a bone. This stone
she inserted in the centre of the pile of earth before our eyes
and watered it with the water, over which she had made some
passes, and muttered some incantations which we, of course,
understood to be merS hocus pocus. She then took off her
outside cloth of muslin and threw it over the sticks to make a
dark chamber. Both old women then walked round the little
tent gesticulating and making passes with their hands, but not
touching it. We were allowed to come as close as we chose,
and I, for my part, when one of the old ladies approached to
raise the tent, squatted down close to her, and watched her
every motion most suspiciously. The cloth was raised, and
there might be seen the two thick primary leaves of the future
plant bursting through and raising the earth above them.
Again the plant was watered and covered up. The incantations
went on as before. When next the cloth was raised, two
secondary leaves, in all the freshness and brightness of new
birth, had shot up between the primary ones; which had now
expanded and lay flat upon the soil. Some incredulity now
being expressed by some of our number, the old lady carefully
dug out the stone and handed it round to each of us, showing
that the shell had split, and that the new shoot did really come
up out of it, while a bunch of fine roots sprung from it below.
The plant was then carefully replaced in the soil, and the
operation repeated, until there resulted a small tree as high as
the tent would hold, beautifully grown, with a number
of side branches from the main stem, all of which were well
clothed with fresh green leaves, and some of them bore
flowers and immature fruit. The old ladies now said they
could do no more, and pulling out the mango-plant handed it
round for inspection. As we all fully believed that it was a
trick of legerdemain, we carefully examined the plant to see if
we could detect any evidence of its having been built up, or of
its having been crumpled by carriage beneath the dress. The
plant was just as smooth and fresh and bright, free from
crumples or bruises of its tender shoots, as it would have been
had it been grown before our eyes in the half hour during
which we had been looking on. Notwithstanding this, re¬
jecting altogether the supernatural, we could see no other
solution of the mystery than that a number of plants in
different stages of growth had been concealed beneath the
dress, and these substituted from time to time ; but how could
this be done without my seeing something of it, since I was
watching her hands closely the whole time ? Our suspicions
were confirmed at the time by this circumstance. After pay¬
ing the old women the small sum they demanded, we collected
rupees from all hands till one of us held a sum ten times
greater than had been paid. He then held this sum out to the
Oct. 30, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
209
woman and said: “ This shall be yours if you will make your
tree grow a foot higher, and ripen the fruit.” “We cannot,
Sahib.” “ Why not ? ” “ Because, Sahib, we cannot make
the fruit riper or bigger than it now is upon the other mango-
trees.” This answer seemed to us, at the time, to be a sort of
proof that the bribe had only been refused because, having
brought no more samples of mango-trees with them, they
could not produce a larger tree.
THE BEAL INDIAN BASKET PEAT.
The old woman now retired and the young man came into
the circle carrying a large basket, a net and a long sword; the
girl following him. The man was a handsome, tall, well-built
young fellow; the girl a pensive, interesting-looking woman of
sixteen. The basket was one of a shape very common at
Madras, oblong, swelling into a belly below, narrow at the top,
and closed by a tight-fitting lid. ^The man took from the
basket a net made of hair rope, in shape like a cabbage net,
but large enough to hold the girl. He spread it on the floor.
The girl lay down upon the net and was tied hand and foot,
doubled up together like a dressed fowl. The net was then
drawn tightly around her, tied at its mouth and the cord wound
several times tightly round her body and securely tied, making
her up into a compact parcel. The man then took her, and
before our eyes dropped her into the open basket. He replaced
the lid, shut it down, and knotted a rope several times securely
around it. The girl spoke to him from the basket. He then,
with three sticks and a cloth, made a tent over the basket, and
for some minutes ran around it frantically calling upon the
god Bahm. Suddenly he whipped off the cloth, removed the
sticks and left the basket standing bound in the midst. He
now motioned us to form a wider circle, and taking his
enormous sword ran swiftly round it brandishing his weapon,
and calling on the gods. The sword was the great Indian
broad-sword, five feet long in the blade, and held by a cross
bar which traverses the iron gauntlet forming its hilt. Sud¬
denly he dashed at the basket, and passed the broad-sword
repeatedly through it from side to side, and from end to end,
piercing it in every direction, through and through. A
shudder of horror ran through the spectators. There were,
however, no shrieks or blood, as many reliable witnesses of
this trick testify to. He then again erected his tent over the
basket and we, forming a close circle around, did not detect
any further tampering with the tent, or its contents. In a few
moments he snatched off the cloth, and there was the basket
open, the cords and net lying around loose ; but no woman.
The girl afterwards, as we were wondering what had become of
her, made her appearance on the outside of the circle,
laughing and unhurt. I can offer no explanation of these
tricks at all. It is quite difficult even in India to get to see
them. I have often since then sent for jugglers said to be able
to perform them, but have never since seen any that were not
the most miserable and palpable shams—mere imitations by
sleight of hand, which were invariably failures.”
Books on Spiritualism.—About the best standard book
on Spiritualism, which ought to be in the library of every
Spiritualist, and introduced to the notice of all enquirers, is
Mr. Bobert Dale Owen’s Debatable Land. Among the cheaper
books or pamphlets, Mr. Gerald Massey’s Concerning Spirit¬
ualism deals admirably with the teachings of the subject, and
Mr. Benjamin Coleman’s Bise and Progress of Spiritualism in
England, is interesting and clearly written.
Spiritualism in East London.—All young mediums
developed at the East End of London will have the benefit of
coming before the public at Mr. Cogman’s Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, on the first Sunday in each
month. Next Sunday, therefore, some of the new mediums
may be heard by those who attend. Mr. Cogman has re¬
ceived the following subscriptions in support of his work;
and considering that he almost single-handed keeps a build¬
ing permanently open, and does other good work in further¬
ance of the cause of Spiritualism, and asks such very small
support from the public to cover the balance of loss, that
balance ought to be freely contributed to him, and something
over. During the present quarter he has received the follow¬
ing donations, some of which will be regularly repeated:—
Anonymous, £1 Is.; Mrs. Strawbridge, £1 Is.; National
Association, £1 Is. ; Dr. Bogers, £1; G. P. 0., £1; Mr. H.
West, 10s. 6d.; Mr. J. Toung, 10s. 6d.; Mr. B. Carrall,
10s. 6d.; Mr. W. Marsh, 10s. 6d.; S. L., 10s. 6d.; Mrs.
Maltby, 10s. 6d.
LEVITATION OF A MATERIALISED SPIRIT.
Last Saturday evening, at the semi-public seance
“ for Spiritualists only,” given through the mediumship
of Mr. C. E. Williams, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street,
Holborn, London, about twenty persons attended. At
the first sitting, all present held each others’ hands and
the hands of the medium; materialised spirit hands
clasped the hands of several of the sitters, and pulled
upwards with considerable force, so that the sitter had
to rise from his seat, stretching his hand upwards as
far as he could reach, yet the spirit hand still pulled
upwards, so that the wrist must have been close to the
ceiling. All the rest of the persons in the room kept
their seats while this test was being given to one or
other of those present. * Musical instruments flew about
the room, and were played upon, and a very heavy arm
chair was heard lumbering along the floor till it reached
the back of the medium’s chair, when it was raised in
the air and placed gently on the top of the table, Mr.
Williams being held all the time.
At the cabinet part of the seance, while the sitters
were in darkness, John King materialised himself, and
illuminated his face and bust with the phosphorescent-
looking light of his lamp; he came out of the cabinet,
and several times floated steadily up to the ceiling.
Once when he did this, the light was strong enough to
cast a shadow of himself upon the ceiling, which could
be clearly seen at the place where it was touched by
his head. The sitters were tolerably genial and har¬
monious, which of course tended to strengthen the
manifestations.
THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND AND THE
TRVINGITES.
The Echo newspaper says :—The contradiction which we
were enabled to give to the assertion that the Duke of North¬
umberland had been admitted into the Communion of Borne
by the Bishopof Beverley, will have been received with pleasure
by our Protestant readers, and especially by the members of
the “ Apostolic Catholic Church,” commonly called “ Irving-
ite,” to which, we believe, his Grace belongs. In 1845 the
Duke married a lady whose father, Mr. Henry Drummond,
M.P., was, as most people know, one of the principal sup¬
porters of the celebrated Edward Irving; and some years
afterwards the Duke’s conversion to the tenets of that
remarkable body was announced. Beside the mysterious ‘ ‘ gift
of tongues,” the particular features of the Apostolic Catholic
Church most calculated to strike a stranger are its high Sacra-
mentalism (very nearly approaching in the matter of the
Eucharist to the doctrine of the Church of Rome), and its
most elaborate and magnificent ritual. Long before St.
Alban’s was heard of, the handsome edifice in Gordon-square
already displayed a cultus of the most ornate description, with
vestments of every hue for the various ranks of the officiating
hierarchy—“ Apostles,” “ Prophets,” “ Evangelists,” and
“ Angels.” A correspondent who was present at a recent high
function in that church informed us that he was first im¬
pressed by the magnificence of the whole, and then somewhat
bewildered to distinguish the congregation amid the multi¬
tudinous ministrants, while any attempt to discriminate be¬
tween the ecclesiastical rank of the robed officials seemed to
him impossible. So costly, indeed, is the service which,
according to the Irvingite view, it is proper to offer to the
Almighty, that a considerable percentage of the revenue of
each member is, we believe, habitually set aside to defray it,
and their works of practical benevolence : and at the time of
the Duke of Northumberland’s conversion, it was rumoured
that the share demanded of the revenues of the great House of
Percy, as interest and arrears, was not less than forty thou¬
sand pounds. Be this as it may, there was, of course, a certain
plausibility in the canard of last week that the nobleman who
had once been attracted by the “ Apostolic Catholic Church,”
of Gordon-square, with its splendid ritualistic practices and
high sacramental doctrines, might have eventually found still
stronger gravitation in the larger “ Apostolic Catholic Church,”
210
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Oct. 30, 1874.
of Eome. We hare never heard, however, of any previous
converts from the Irvingites having been made by the Roman¬
ists, and it would be exceedingly unjust to associate the sect
in any way with the perilous sliding scale of doctrines and
practices which have been established of late years within the
Church of England. It is unlikely that a man who has had
the courage to join a small body which frankly stands outside
all the great Churches of Christendom should subsequently
join the Church of Rome.
WEIGHING! MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
The Religio-PhilosopMcal Journal (Chicago), of
October 17th. says :—“ The New York Graphic has
exhibited its enterprise by sending a correspondent to
visit the Eddy Brothers in Yermont. He sums up the
result of the visit as follows :—c Your special corre¬
spondent has met with great success in his investiga¬
tion of the Eddy spiritual manifestations, every facility
having been afforded him by the family to apply tests
and take precautions against deception. Among the
results of an entirely novel character, he has had the
materialised spirit forms measured and weighed on
ordinary platform scales in the presence of the audience.
The height of those seen on a single evening varied
from 4 feet to 6 feet 3 inches, and “ Honto,” the noted
Indian spirit, on being weighed four times successively,
turned the scale at 88, 58, 58, and 65 pounds respec¬
tively. This is the first instance in which this
astonishing test has been applied. "William H. Eddy,
the medium, weighs 179 pounds.’”
SEANCE AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S.
Last Tuesday night a seance was held at the resi¬
dence Cf Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W.C. The other guests
present were Mrs. and Miss Ramsay, of 46, Bryanston-
square, W.; Mrs. Wiseman, 1, Orme-square, Bays-
water; Mr. Algernon Joy, hon. secretary to the
National Association of Spiritualists; Mr. Gledstanes,
of Paris; and Mr. Wm. H. Harrison, of Wilmin Yilla,
Chaucer-road, Herne-hill. Mr. Monet, of Totterdown,
Bristol, was the medium.
As Mr. Monck objected to a dark seance, a lighted
candle was placed on the centre of the table ; soon raps
came upon different parts of the table so loud that they
might have been heard outside the room, through the
closed door; they were louder and stronger than the
average of the raps heard through Mrs. Jencken’s
mediumship, who of late years has been the finest
rapping medium in this country. Whether Mr. Monck
can obtain them with the same certainty and prompt¬
ness as Mrs. Jencken at all times, we do not know, as
this was our first seance with him.
He lost consciousness momentarily several times, and
was made to utter short sentences which were tests to
some of the listeners. Eor instance, he described
minutely in detail to Mr. Joy some incidents which had
particularly attracted Mr. Joy’s attention some months
since, which particulars Mr. Joy could not conceive to
have possibly reached the medium in any ordinary way.
He was afterwards entranced, and gave many
messages of a private nature; Mrs. Gregory said that
such of them as were given to her might be published
for the good of the Spiritual movement. The en¬
tranced medium said that “ he saw Sir Walter Scott
standing by her, and that the spirit said that he had
appeared to Mrs. Gregory' in France some years ago,
and told her, among other things, that he was a member
of a branch of her family.” Mrs. Gregory then said
that it was true that he had so appeared to her
at Dieppe, and that she did not remember to have
mentioned the incident where it was likely it could
ever have reached the ears of Mr. Monck. The en¬
tranced medium told her that he saw James Gregory,
father of the late Professor Gregory, also Donald Mack-
donald, Lord of the Isles, of whom Mrs. Gregory is a
direct descendant; he saw and described Mrs. Gregory’s
mother, giving her age when she departed from earth,
and her maiden name; he also gave the names of other
relatives, some of whom were, and some of whom were
not, remembered by Mrs. Gregory.
During .one part of the seance the floor of the room
shook with a steady tremulous motion for about three
minutes. Towards the close of the sitting the light
was put out, and after the .spirits had made one or two
ineffectual attempts to float Mr. Monck, they raised him
for an instant, and placed his feet on the shoulders of
Mr. Algernon Joy, who was seated in his chair at the
time. A few spirit lights, visible to all the sitters, and
not of a subjective nature, were shown during the dark
part of the seance, but throughout the sitting the medium
strongly objected to sit in the dark at all.
POWERFUL NEW MEDIUMS IN LONDON.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OE ME. AND MKS. DAVIS AND EAMIIY;
ALSO OF MESSES. SHEEWSBBEE, HENDEE, E6KLINGTON,
AND WILLIAM HAXBY.
Last Monday night there was a seance at the house
of Mr. John Davis, 11, Underwood-street, Eagle-street,
City-road, at which about twelve mediums were pre¬
sent, none of whom have been as yet publicly known;
they all form a harmonious circle, and have been sit¬
ting with each other regularly for some time. The
only visitor at the circle last Monday night was Mr.
W. H. Harrison, and he was the only person present
who was not a medium.
Mr. and Mrs. Johp. Davis first heard of Spiritualism
in the early part of this year, in consequence of attend¬
ing one of Dr. Sexton’s lectures; previously they had
been Secularists, but Dr. Sexton led them to suppose
that there was something in Spiritualism, so they sat
at home on four or five occasions to see if they could
obtain manifestations, but they were not successful.
Afterwards they went to Mr. Barber’s circle, at Isling¬
ton, where they saw something of physical manifesta¬
tions and writing mediumship. They first obtained
manifestations in their own home about three months
ago, and discovered that every member of the family
had more or less medial power.
Mr. Davis gets somewhat feeble physical manifesta-
tisns. Mrs. Davis is clairvoyant; she sees white cloudy
spirit forms floating about; she can only see them in
the dark, and with her eyes open. She obtains physical
manifestations.
Mr. William Davis, one of the sons, is a powerful
physical medium; he obtains table motions, raps, and
materialised spirit hands. Another son, Mr. Thomas
Davis, is a trance medium ; he also sees spirits in the
dark, and on rare occasions in the light; his eyes are
open when he sees them; they are translucent, and he
can see through them.
Mary, one of the little daughters, sees and talks to
spirits, but obtains no. physical manifestations; she sees
spirits both in the light and in darkness; they appear
clothed as they were in earth life, and look solid, not
THE SPIKITUALIST, 211
Oct. 30, 1874.
at all transparent. Alice, another daughter, is a
writing, trance, and physical medium ; she sees spirits
in. the same way that her mother does. John, one of
the little boys, has often been floated about the seance
room by spirits. He sees them, dressed as in everyday
life, but afar off he sees brighter spirits, not so dressed.
He sees them both in the light and in the dark. There
are other children who are all mediums.
Mr. Shrewsbree, sen., and Mr. Shrewsbree, jun., of
12, Gee-street, Goswell-road, are members of the circle.
The latter is a trance, clairvoyant, and physical medium.
He has not yet obtained raps. He first heard of
Spiritualism at a meeting of the St. John’s Association,
and he attended some seances at Mr. Barber’s house.
He sees spirits in their earthly dresses, but brighter
ones not so dressed afar off; his eyes are open at the
time. When he sees them in the dark they are opaque
to each other.
Mr. James William Hender, of 17, Peerless-street,
City-road, is a healing medium. He first saw spiritual
manifestations two-and-a-half years ago, at a meeting
of the St. John’s Association, Clerkenwell, then he sat
at home with friends and obtained physical phenomena.
He saw Mr. Owen, a healing medium, curing disease at
a house in the Marylebone-road, then the power came
to himself, and he cured one of his children of its
ailments, by the laying on of hands. Afterwards he
healed many persons, and some of them with surprising
rapidity; he has cured women of lameness in one
minute. Sometimes he sees spirit lights; they open
and disclose a solid-looking spirit face. Since he be¬
came a medium his health has improved considerably.
Sometimes, after removing pains from patients, he re¬
ceives the pains himself, but they do not last more than
ten minutes.
Mr. William Eglington, of 45, Westmoreland-place,
City-road, is a strong physical and trance medium;
while in the trance the spirits sometimes give tests
through his mediumship, ’by telling the sitters about
their private affairs. He does not witness the mani¬
festations which take place through his own medium-
ship, for at the beginning he goes into a trance, and
remains unconscious throughout the seance. Mr.
William Haxby, another member of the circle, has the
same kind of mediumship, but is partly conscious at
times.
The foregoing is the testimony which was given by
the sitters last Monday night, as to their mediumship.
A dark seance followed, in which the whole room was
alive with raps and noises, which came upon the
ceiling, walls, table, and all parts of the apartment;
materialised spirit hands touched the sitters, and
musical instruments flew about overhead, playing all
the time; in short all the manifestations common
at dark circles were obtained with power. Direct
spirit writing and drawing have been obtained at the
seances, also the carriage of solid objects from one room
to another, while the doors were closed. Materialised
spirit forms have been promised in the future.
The Marylebone Association of Spiritualists contem¬
plates getting up another public concert.
Mr. ahu Mrs. Thomas Everitt will leave London to¬
day or to-morrow, to spend a few weeks in the North of
England, and Mr. Everitt will he glad to make himself useful
by delivering lectures to local societies, where such help
would be of service. Letters for him should be addressed to
the care of his brother, Mr. F. Everitt, Bishop Auckland,
Yorkshire.
CREMATION.
The following paper was read at a meeting of the Maryle¬
bone Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism, on Wednesday,
last week, by Mr. Henry R. Paul:—
The watchword of the present century is reform. From
reforms in law to reforms in spelling, from reforms in religion
to reforms in street-paving, the air is filled with reform. ,
Perhaps the most important of all reforms are sanitary reforms
—most important because bearing upon the health, and
through the health upon the morals, the intellect, and the
advancement of the people; and of all sanitary reforms the
one pressing most urgently for immediate attention is reform
in our present burial system.
In the first place, we will ask, “ For what reasons is it
necessary to alter the present state of things?” Mr. P. H.
Holland, M.R.C.S., Medical Inspector of Burials in England
and Wales, in a paper on the “ Merits of Cremation, has it
any ? ” says, “ The real- danger from a well-situated and well-
managed cemetery, large in proportion to the number of its
burials, is not greater than from a well-managed railway.”
But what is the requisite proportion to the number of burials ?
Are our present cemeteries large in proportion to the number
of their burials ? If so, considering how our dead poor are
packed, the proportion must be curiously small. Land is
already enormously dear, and it takes no prophet to say it
will be incomparably dearer as time goes on. Six of the prin¬
cipal Metropolitan cemeteries together occupy 225 acres, and
the London Necropolis at Woking no less than 2,000 acres.
It was indisputably proved before the Select Committee of the
House of Commons, by such eminent authorities as Drs.
Prout, Chambers, and Copland, that burial in spots surrounded
by the living, is most injurious to the health of the community,
and invariably productive of typhoid fever, in consequence of
which, and of the high price of land in inhabited places,
cemeteries were removed out of town. But the population of
England doubles in thirty years, and London spreads so
rapidly, that it just overlaps them when, to quote Mr. Soares,
“ they are as full of as many dead bodies and as much virulent
poison as they can hold.”
It has been said by an authority on the subject, that people
should not live within four miles of any graveyard. There is
a casein point, reported as follows : “ A military officer of un-
doubtable position states, that when his men occupied as a
barrack, a building two miles from a burial ground in
Liverpool, the smell was, at times when the wind blew from
that direction, most offensive, and that he and his men
suffered consequently from dysentery.” But many of us
could add our own experience of cemeteries we have seen. In
some of the London cemeteries the paths are below the level
of the turf beneath which sleep (!) our buried dead; and the
topmost coffin is about level with the path. Even in the well-
kept and undeniably beautiful Kensal Green, a sickening smell
is perceptible after a slight shower. But walk into the Roman
Catholic Cemetery at Kensal Green, over the part in which are
buried our London Irish, and see or smell for yourself if there
the ground is “ large in proportion to the number of its
burials.” It is not fancy or conjecture by any means, but it
is a fact that has been proved over and over again, that
certain gases, evolved from decomposing bodies, are deadly
poisons to the human system. Sir Henry Thompson, in that
splendid article in the Contemporary Review that really
opened the discussion which has been going on during the
year, on the relative merits of burning and burying, says,
“ The process of decomposition affecting an animal body, is
one that has a disagreeable, injurious, often fatal influence on
the living man, if sufficiently exposed to it. Thousands of
human lives have been cut short by the poison of slowly
decaying, and often diseased animal matter. Even the
putrefaction of some of the most insignificant animals is
sufficient to destroy the noblest.” Add to that the opinion
of Sir Benjamin Brodie, and the position of those who stand
up for the continuance of burial is that of those who defend
poison and murder. He says, “ The gas evolved from the
putrid bodies is chiefly sulphuretted hydrogen, a gas so
noxious and deadly, that the admixture of only one part of it
with five hundred parts of atmospheric air, is almost immedi¬
ately fatal.” ,
Bodies consist of water, carbonic acid, and ammonia, and
the mineral constituents more or less oxidised elements of the
earth’s structure, lime, phosphorus, iron, sulphur, and mag¬
nesia. Now whether we burn or bury, embalm or cast into the
sea, nothing will prevent our bodies being resolved into these
1 different elements. “ To this end we must come;” it is the
212
THE SPIRITUALIST.
course of nature, and the only question is whether we shall
help or hinder her. The gases, of which consists twelve-thir¬
teenths of every dead body, must pass off in the form of
offensive gas, many thousand times the bulk of the body
which produces it, and says Mr. Soares, “ these emanations
enter into the lungs, corrupt the blood, lower the tone of
health, causing headache, dysentery, sore throat, low fever,
and other sicknesses.” Then again, dead bodies are none the
less infectious because they are buried “ out of our sight.”
A few years ago a railway was being constructed near New
Orleans, for which it was necessary to cut through a portion
of a cemetery, in which were many bodies that had been
buried eighty-seven years before, of an epidemic of small-pox.
While digging through this, some of the navvies were taken
ill and laid up in the town, through which an epidemic of
small-pox spread, and proved fatal to hundreds. In Minchin-
hampton, in 1843, some of the soil of a burying ground, was
sold for manure for the neighbouring gardens. Wherever it
had been taken, fever and death followed, and the place was
literally decimated.
Now, I think I have shown pretty clearly that reform is
necessary, and the next question is, how ? By embalming, or
mummification, which at a vast expense would preserve the
hideousness of death ? By ocean burial, as Dr. Holland pro¬
poses ? which would poison the water instead of the land,
and cause us to be eaten by sharks instead of worms. Fancy
the pleasure of our autumn swim in the sea ! Or can we by
improving our present system, do away with the danger ? No,
we must adopt Shakespeare’s advice, and reform it altogether.
No other method seems possible than cremation; which
would immediately dissipate the dangerous gases. Here is
the account of the first case of cremation of a human body from
the Tageblatt of Breslau :—“ On the 22nd of September, at
half-past five in the evening, the cremation of a corpse took
place at the new gas works, in the presence of a large number
of the members of the Scientific Association. The soft part
of the body disappeared in about half-an-liour. After an hour
the bones and portions of the liver only remained, and these
required for complete incineration, an hour and ten minutes.
The time was somewhat prolonged by the opening of the door
for the purpose of observation, and the consequent admission
of cool air into the chamber. The body weighed 70£ lbs.
(German), the ashes about 3 lbs.” Of course, the sulphuretted
hydrogen gas is generated as usual; but being highly inflam¬
mable, is burnt; if any of it reached the top of the shaft, it
would mix with the lighter air at a great altitude, and lose its
power for evil.
Many are the objections that have been raised against the
introduction of cremation; as an instance of the paltry and
ignorant objections we may mention that of the Bishop of
Lincoln that “ the belief in the resurrection would be de¬
stroyed.” But the least reflection would have shown him,
that for all purposes of bringing to life again, a burned body
is no worse than a buried one. Besides, does the fact of the
burning of the martyrs destroy Dr. Wordsworth’s belief in their
resurrection? But there is one formidable, really formidable
objection, ” sentiment.” We may argue, discuss, give logical
reasons, and plausible inducements, “ but against the whole
armoury of rhetoric and eloquence, sentiment rears her head
unmoved, and doggedly maintains her own.” It is all very
well in the free air and healthy thought of a discussion, to look
down on this sentiment; but let any one here suppose himself
in the unhappy position of having to choose between burial
and cremation, and say whether sentiment, belief, prejudice,
would not strongly incline him to keep in the old beaten
tracks, and leave these inndVations for times when they touch
us less closely. Let any one here tell some of his sensitive
friends, as a piece of news, the fact that the body of Lady
Dilke was sent to Germany to be cremated, and it will be
greeted by nine out of ten with “Oh, horrible ! ” But is this
sentiment true ? We answer, “ No; ” and the best way to pre¬
serve true sentiment, or poetic feeling, is to do away with all
false, degrading, morbid sentiment. It is bred of our early
education; as Voltaire says, “ Instruction does it all, and if
that instruction is false, our sentiments become prejudices,—
than which nothing holds a stronger mastery over vulgar
minds.” “ Show these ignorant,” says Mr. Soares, “ that what
they call ‘ Leaving their beloved ones at rest,’ is in reality
leaving them to become the most appalling things in creation;
that while they are rearing flowers over the tomb, hideous
worms are sweltering in the black, putrid jelly beneath, and
crawling over the awful skeleton and grinning skull, which is
really breathing death into the vitals of the bereaved and
tender mourners, in return for their solicitude. Picture to
Oct. 30, 1874.
them the awfully horrible aspect, the revolting form, which
their ignorant prejudice has forced the once-loved clay to
assume. Tell them more. Tell them, by their own act, they
have converted the form once so well beloved into a plague, a
pestilence, an active scourge, a messenger of death.”
One other benefit from cremation, and I have done—that is,
the reform off the face of the earth, of the pride, pomp, and
circumstance of the funeral. Public opinion, I venture to
assert, is now ripe on the subject; people of all grades of
religious thought seem to be agreed as to “ the bitter jest, the
biting sarcasm,” of squandering the often slender shares of
the widow and orphan in honouring (?) the dead. Seven
millions yearly are spent in “ these ghastly and barbarous
trappings, vulgar ostentatious mockeries, and mummeries,
silk scarves and, brass nails, white napkins and velvet palls,
feathers and flunkies, kid gloves and gin for the monstrous
mutes, black cloth and satin for the wanton worm.” Crema¬
tion, I believe, would deal a deadly blow to all this ; in the
meantime, till cremation comes, happy am I to see that the
Spiritualists have led off in this reform. All honour to that
noble band, and may they see that reform wide spread before
the time comes when, to conclude with the famous sentence
of Professor Tyndall—a sentence to which cremation would
add a second and a literal meaning, when “ you and I, like
streaks of morning cloud, have vanished in the infinite azure
of the past.”
UNION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
BY THOMAS #ALES BOBSTEB.
From my standpoint of comparative quietude I have
watched with interest and with pain, but without indi¬
vidual condemnation, the evidences of inharmony, and
in some instances of animosity, that have been exhibited
in our ranks—in which, perhaps, I might have been
engaged but for my enforced silence. And I find myself
revolving the enquiry, in my own mind, as to what
sufficient causes of difference, after all, have we as
Spiritualists, that should lead to angry disputation or
personal hate? The truths upon which we can agree
are as eternal as the Immortality toward which they
are directing us, and should certainly constitute a moral
element, uniting us in an indissoluble fraternity. The
ideas in regard to which we differ are of comparatively
minor consideration, and are, necessarily, more or less
doubtful, both as to their existence in truth and as to
their application to present needs. The great ques¬
tions as to the perpetuity of individual consciousness
and eternal progress beyond the grave, with the majestic
corollaries of thought as to the application of these two
great truths to human conditions, should take pre¬
cedence of all minor considerations as to the assumed
predominance of this or that individual conception.
The lesser questions at issue amongst us are, for the
most part, comparatively ephemeral in their nature;
and those deemed fundamental are by no means
enhanced in value by angry discussion. That dif¬
ferences of opinion should exist, is certainly natural;
and that each should endeavour, rationally, to main¬
tain the correctness of his views, is equally so. But,
in doing this, would it not be better, and far more
in consonance with our teachings as Spiritualists, if
it could be done without bitterness of expression or
detracting personalities ? In my own experience, both
in the past and the present, some of the noblest,
warmest, and truest friends I have ever had, have been
among those who differed with me as to the interpreta¬
tion and application of truths which we had mutually
sought. And my reflections thereon are exceedingly
gratifying, now that some of them have gone to their
guerdon in the sky, and others, like myself, are taking
steps on the upper side of the fifty in the same direction.
It is argued in behalf of controversy, that, “ In the
Oct. 30, 1874.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
213
agitation of thought, is the beginning of wisdom.”
True; hut may we not agitate the realm of thought to
the extent of our capacities, without disturbing that
individual repose incidental to the affections and to
mutual esteem; and without engendering that rancour,
either through the press, on the rostrum, or in the con¬
ference hall, which should be characteristic of any other
school than ours ? I do not wish to be understood as
having any invidious meaning in my words. As a co¬
labourer in the great moral vineyard of Spiritual Truth,
I simply wish to convey to my brother and sister
workers for the cause that we all love, my humble im¬
pressions as to the undoubted advantages of harmony in
our ranks, and to urge that we should all be more
assiduous in its practical exercise. If the opposite course
is pursued—if inharmony continues to be cultivated
by painful insinuations and personal detraction for
opinion’s sake, may we not subject ourselves to the
same imputation of bigotry brought against the religious
leaders of the Past? And may we not thus render our¬
selves chargeable with that
Insufferable vanity, that fain
Would make our minds the measuring rods of Truth ?
To avoid which, as speakers, writers, readers and
listeners, would that we might always remember how
true it is, that
No two men in creation think alike;
No two men in creation love alike;
No two men in creation are alike.
* * * * *
No two men ever saw the world
Alike through outward eyes, or ever heard
Just the same music in the wild birds’ hymn
Or the deep moaning of the wakeful sea.
* * * * *
Because we differ, we agree. Because
Each hath a separate experience,
Valid and rich, given to no other man.
Thought-coin goes current over the wide world.
For each man, like a Roman Emperor,
Stamps his own effigy on all he does.
Banner of Light.
MILLS ON FIRE SEEN BY A DISTANT
CLAIRVOYANT.
John Fitzgekald, a temperance lecturer, lives in
Brunswick, Me., and on the day of the Granite Mills
fire at Fall River, as the BrunswicJc Telegraph relates
the story, was sick abed. Mrs. Fitzgerald.had arranged
her husband for his morning nap, and left to enter the
stable in the rear of the house and attached thereto;
almost as soon as she had passed into the building she
heard the cry of “ Fire !” in tones so startling that she
rushed back to the house in the greatest alarm, to hear
her husband repeat the cry in tones as loud as the first
call—all the more startling to her, as for several days
he had spoken not above a whisper ; he was evidently
greatly excited, catching at the bed clothes and attempt¬
ing to get out of bed, saying he must have his clothing.
Being asked what he meant, he replied, “ Wife, there
is a fire in a factory in Fall River* Mass., in the
upper story, the mule room: I see the sparks
flying from the machinery, as sparks fly from a
grindstone when men are grinding their tools, and
the factory is full of women and children. I see it
all.” All this time he was endeavouring to get up from
his bed, to escape the fire, saying that it was near to
him, and he must assist the poor people. “ Close that
door into the entry or the women and children will be
burned to death ; an old sailor could rig a better ladder
than that; splice this, splice that; don’t jump from
the windows (this expression oft repeated), for it is only
a chance of death between fire and being crushed upon
the pavements; (to the firemen) why do you do this,
and why do you do that? see those poor women and
little children filling the room, and yet the laws of Mas¬
sachusetts forbid the employment in factories of chil¬
dren under a certain age.” Mrs. Fitzgerald was alone
with her husband, and exerted her utmost strength to
keep him in bed. All at once he fell back upon the
pillow and said, “ It is all over; the roof has fallen in,
and those poor people are burned.” After that he was
completely prostrated, and Mrs. Fitzgerald for some
time feared that he would not recover from the shock.
It was not until Monday that Mrs. Fitzgerald heard
of the fire, and not until Tuesday, 22ad, did she get a
paper containing an account of it. This she read to
her husband ; he several times stopped her, and told
her what was to come in the newspaper account, as “ he
had seen it all.”—Banner of Light.
THE CAVENDISH ROOM MEETINGS.
Last Sunday evening Mrs. Tappan gave the first of a series
of trance lectures at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street,
Regent-street, London. There was a good attendance, very
nearly all the seats in the hall being occupied. Mr. Webster
Glynes presided.
The Chairman said that it was a great satisfaction to see in
their midst once more the eloquent and gifted lady who would
address them that evening; her discourses were increasing in
interest, and would educate the listeners step by step. In her
future addresses the higher branches of Spiritualism would
receive attention, and he hoped the listeners would take the
teachings to heart. Mrs. Tappan would have left England
last year had not several gentlemen undertaken considerable
pecuniary liability to retain her, so that he hoped that the
public would attend in considerable numbers and support the
lectures well. It was not proposed to throw open the meetings
as was done last year, but to keep them for the teaching of
the advanced doctrines of Spiritualism, since there were other
places open to the public where the A B 0 of the subject was
taught. He hoped that the lectures would make all of them
wiser and better.
Mr. Glynes then read a chapter from the New Testament,
and a hymn was sung.
Mrs. Tappan, in the trance state, uttered a prayer, after
which she delivered an inspirational discourse, in the course
of which she said that there was as much evidence in the world
in favour of the truth of Spiritualism as would establish all
the other sciences put together, yet unfortunately both the
scientific and theological tendencies of the age were against
Spiritualism. The compilation of facts had been going on long
enough, so it was time to begin the compilation of truths
drawn from observation. A series of essays would therefore
be given through her lips by Dr. Benjamin Brush, late of
Philadelphia, whose studies had been continuous since
he entered spirit life a century ago ; he would begin his essays
next Sunday at the point where Materia Medica left
off. Spiritualism was making men think, and the more
they thought, the greater would be the fruition, for
it dealt with individuals in human society, and was thereby
gradually raising the whole mass. Spiritualism could never
be made into a church. The things of the spirit could be
tabulated and studied, just as the phenomena of light had
been tabulated and studied, and discoveries would result, for
there was no place in God’s universe so locked, that by con¬
stant endeavour and knocking at the door man could not gain
admittance. To give to the giant intellect of to-day its soul, and
make it alive, was the object of the dwellers in the spirit
world. Dr. Brush next Sunday would speak on “ The Physical
Basis of Life.” Any listeners who desired to ask questions
on the subject of the lectures, might write them out and pre¬
sent them to the Chairman on each following Sunday even¬
ing, just before the next lecture began, and they would be
answered.
Mrs. Tappan then delivered an inspirational poem, and
shortly afterwards the service closed.
214
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 30, 1874,
Pnetrg.
THEODORE TILTON.
BY GERALD MASSEY.
My friend, I met you when the shadow layj
Darkly betwixt you and the outer day :
Your life frost-hitten to the core, was dumb
With Winter, as if Spring would never come.
The smile that sprang up in your eyes to give
A Stranger greeting had no heart to live
For you, when it had cheered me on my way.
I saw you like some war-.horse who had smelt
Burnt powder, and the joy of onset felt,
Now doomed to plow the furrow, who should chanoe
To catch the music, see the colors dance,
And hear his fellows neighing for the war,
And he, too, snuffs the battle from afar—
Down comes the lash, in mist the visions melt;
But knew not how your life was cross’t and cross't,
As is a letter, till the sense looks lost;
Nor what you held at heart, and still must hold,
That makes the whole wide warmest world a-cold!
But now the heavens brighten overhead,
And though tho ways are miry you must tread,
I greet you on the break-up of the frost.
In such a world as this it ne’er avails
To sit-and eat the heart, or gnaw the nails;
The live souls have to swim against the tide,
The. deadest fish can float with it and ride,
Heroic breath must lift and clear the skies
That we have clouded with our own vain sighs:
Heroic breath must fill your future sails.
It is the well-borne burden that will tone
Our manhood; turn the gristle into bone.
The storms that on the hill-side bow the trees
Help bring the power to bear, and knot their knees,
And (I have seen them kneeling) thus prepare
Them to receive the onsets they must bear:
So ’neath its load the iron of manhood’s grown.
Nor murmur of a life by falsehood marred
Or roof-tree by the fires of ruin charred.
Why, what hath Falsehood in the world to do
But to lie to live, then die to prove the true,
And then be buried, while the new life waves
The greenness overgrowing all such graves;
But strike! strike on, strike often, and strike hard!
The world is waking from its phamtom dreams,
To make out that which is from tnat which seems;
And in the light of day shall blush to find
What wraiths of darkness still had power to blind
Its vision; what thin walls of misty grey,
As if of granite, stopped Its onward way ;
Up, and be busy, as the early beams !
Hope, work, fight on, my friend, and you shall stand
One of the foremost of a noble band;
Stand visibly in the smile of heaven and shed
Light from within you, wheresoe’er you tread;
Stand on the higher summit to transmit
A new live heart-beat irom the Infinite,
To kindle—as it throbs throughout—your land.
Banner of Light.
(EotreapottDence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
A PUBLIC BUILDING FOR SPIRITUALISTS.
Sib,—The Offices Committee of the National Association of
Spiritualists feel encouraged by the fact that although their
circular letter has been out so short a time, promises to the
guarantee fund have already been received to the amount of
£125 per annum for three years.
At a meeting of the Committee held last evening, the follow¬
ing paragraphs were agreed upon to be added to the circular,
together with a list of the contributions offered so far, and to
be sent to the members and friends of the Association
“ The Offices Committee are now actively engaged in obtain¬
ing information respecting premises, and are anxious to report
to the next meeting of Council on November 9th. It is most
desirable that the report should include a definite recom¬
mendation to the Council, on which it can take action.
“ The Committee therefore urge upon all who are kindly
willing to aid the Guarantee Fund, to signify their intention
of doing so without delay.
“ It is important that the Council should be supported by
sufficient promises to justify it in doing something more than
merely engaging small and inconvenient offices, as out of such
premises no possible profit could be made. If, on the contrary,
a hall is taken for the purposes of lectures and soirees, with
sufficient accommodation attached for seance rooms, reading
rooms, library, &e., &c., several sources of income will
immediately arise, diminishing the actual cost, and ultimately,
it is hoped, rendering the establishment self-supporting.
“ It is therefore probable, that the larger the Guarantee
Fund, the smaller will be the amounts required from the con¬
tributors, at all events after the first year.
“ On behalf of the Offices Committee, at a meeting held in
London this day, October 26th, 1874.
“ Edward T. Bennett, Secretary,
“Betchworth, October 27th.”
A ROD SEANCE.
Sib,—Last evening, our spirit friend, “ Sam Wright,” came
as usual. “ Guide me, oh thou great Jehovah ” having been
sung, “Read John, 1st chapter ” (the Gospel) was spelled out,
then “ Sing again.” This being done, the following beautiful
prayer was given, and the name of God was spelt, as usual,
exceedingly slowly, in token of extreme reverence :—
“ Almighty and everlasting God, eternal and supreme, who
was, is, and is to come—still the.sanle kind, loving Father as
Thou wert when Thou madest our first parents, and dost love
Us the same as Thou didst then, and not only us but all that
Thou hast made, and hatest nothing, we come unto Thee and
would love Thee, and would work for Thee, but we are weak
and sinful, and without Thy aid can do no good. Oh, do
Thou give us Thy love that we may be enabled to love Thee,
give us Thy strength that we may be enabled to work for
Thee. Oh, be ever with us, and may Thy ministering spirits
be ever near us to guide and assist us to do that which is
pleasing to Thee. May they be always near us, to guide and
assist us, when we are tempted to do anything that would
displease Thee. May we love Thee and all mankind, and at
all times may our only thought be to please Thee. Oh, do
Thou assist us in our endeavours. Amen.”
He then commenced this homily :—
“ There is one subject that very few, if any, on earth, can
understand, and yet it is a subject that has been taught to
most of you, if not all, from your childhood; it has also been
taught in all churches and places of worship, and yet it is a
subject that the teachers and preachers themselves do not
comprehend, for it is even beyond the comprehension of dis¬
embodied spirits, that is — Eternity, eternity! What
is the time you have to live on earth in comparison
to eternity ? Why, a single drop out of the ocean is a greater
loss to the ocean than the time you live is to eternity. Then,
knowing this, how are you preparing yourselves for eternity ?
You have but a few short days, months, or years, ere you enter
on it. The sacrifice, trouble, or affliction you may undergo,
is nothing to compare to what you will have to go through
in eternity. So live on earth, and so devote your life to God’s
service, that when you enter eternity, you may have no reason
to regret time misspent. May God help you! ”
We had your last two numbers of The Spiritualist open on the
table, the one for Sept. 25 at “ Spirit teachings,” and the one
for Oct. 2nd at the Misses Eagar, Young, and Keeves’ beautiful
trance addresses, and we purposed questioning our invisible
friend upon them. I therefore said, “ Do you know what
books we have been reading ? ” The reply was, “ There is
one book you should always read and take for your guide.”
Here the rod touched the Bible. I then read Miss Eagar’s
address, and wanted to read Miss Young’s to our spirit friend,
but was stopped by his saying, “ Spirits, like mortals, err.
The Bible is truth; take it for your guide, and you will never
regret. It is God’s word, and in it you will find all things
necessary to make you very truly happy both now and in
eternity.” I remarked, “ But there are so many creeds drawn
from the Bible.” He replied, “ There always were, and always
will be, many different beliefs taught from it; but read and
study it yourself; God will assist you and lead you right.”
We then asked, “ What is your opinion of the various creeds ? ”
The reply was, “I am no theologian.” Question—“ Can you
give us particulars of your own spirit life since you left
earth ? ” Answer, “ Yes, but it is not necessary, and would do
you no good.” We remarked, “ But for others’ good.” He
answered, ‘‘It would not be believed.” One of my friends
said, “ Then please tell ms; we will believe it.” To which he
gave, ‘‘ No.” I remarked, “ But people think it wrong thus to
communicate with you.” Reply—“ If so, why do it?” We
then said, “ But is it wrong ? ” Reply—“ I am not the judge.”
We remarked, “ Then how can we judge ? ” Reply—“ If you
think it wrong, do not do so.” The lady, holding the rod, then
said, “ But how does God allow you to speak to us ? ” He
added slowly, “ Ask God—also use his name more reverently.”
We remarked, “ But other spirits say it is right.” He instantly
replied, “ But the Bible contains God’s words—not spirits.”
Question—“Which—the Old or New Testament ? ” Reply—
Oct. 30, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
215
“ Love and keep His commandments,”—adding, “ Sing and
close.” The lady here interposed, and hoped he was not going
to leave us thus soon, but without waiting for the singing, he
at once closed with the benediction, “ May God ever hold you
in His keeping—Good night; ” thus finishing a truly interest¬
ing seance, and leaving us ample food for reflection. His
discourse on eternity was most impressive, the word “ eternity,”
like the name of the Deity, being spelt very slowly and there¬
fore impressively. I should not have troubled you with this
long account, but your excellent periodical had so much to do
with the seance, that I thought it best to give you the whole.
Otherwise, since we have found you cannot afford us weekly
space, one of our local papers has kindly placed its columns
at our disposal. Can none of our London friends offer their
opinions upon this phase of spiritual manifestation ?
BaVrow-in-Fumess, Oct. 5 th, 1874. W. R. Thobnton.
SPIRITUALISM nr DARLINGTON. '
Sir,—Our last Sunday morning meeting was opened by Mr.
York, who gave a reading from The National Reformer, on
“ Jesus Christ our Great Exemplar ”—an article written
evidently by a utilitarian of the materialistic school, who has
not yet arrived at that point of development at which is per¬
ceived the utilitarianism of mind or spirit. Each speaker
being allowed five minutes, gave free utterance to his or her
opinion of the article read, and kept up a very lively interest.
This tended to the unfolding of each speaker’s power of utter¬
ance and expression. Ability in normal public speaking
requires more attention at spiritual meetings throughout the
country; let us have more Spiritualists developed in this
respect: mediums have had almost exclusively our attention
up to the present. Able public speaking is a rare gift, or
rather qualification, and can only be brought out and perfected
by practice, using such power as we have on suitable occasions.
We have ceased proselytising in Darlington, and hold our
weekly meetings solely for instruction and individual educa¬
tion in truth from all sources. * Mr. Richmond gave a very
instructive lecture last Sunday morning on “ How to Conduct
Public Spiritual Meetings.” The method he advocated was to
divide the time of meeting into three portions; the first of
them to be spent in silence, giving the soul an opportunity to
enter into its holy place, into the inner chamber of the mind,
to commune with the Infinite, and after being baptised in the
inner life and imbuedwith the Divine influence, some one, he sug¬
gested, yielding to the power might speak, and thus commence
the second division of the meeting. The third, he said,
should consist of brief remarks, by any member who so desired,
upon what had been advanced. We find we cannot keep up
life and interest in our meetings without change and variety
in speakers and subjects. G. R. Hinde.
Darlington.  
SPIRIT, SOUL, AND BODY.
Sir,—The following are extracts from a spirit-message given
by my writing mediumship, upon the connexion between body,
soul, and spirit:—
“ Spirit is the life, the foundation upon which all exists.
Soul and body are adjuncts, springing from the germ of spirit-
life and both are necessary to form the complete human being.
“ The germ—spirit—is the first principle of man-life. Then
is added the nervous system, as the first clothing, or embodi¬
ment of the spirit-germ, the soul or “ nerve system ” being, as
it were, the keys, or wires of the musical instrument, neces¬
sary to produce the harmony, and to form into eternal
completeness, the spirit of the music that dwells therein. The
outer cover, or body, or to carry out the simile, the case, is
for the necessities of the surrounding earth-life.
“ In dreams, and trance life of the deepest kind, the spirit
only is conscious, the soul and body lying dormant, but still
connected by the small cord of light which, when snapped
asunder, frees the spirit from its clay body and leaves the
latter to moulder in the dust, from whence it came. This is
the death of the earth-body. The soul is the spirit-body, and
accompanying it, at death, is gradually replaced by the
spiritual body which awaits the spirit in its home. ...”
Question.—“ You tell me that the body returns to the dust;
the spirit to its Maker, and its spirit home. What becomes of
the soul, which you thus speak of as ‘ replaced by the
spiritual body ? ’ ”
“ The spirit is the germ of life itself, the essence. The soul
as the spirit-body, is the receptacle of the embodiment of all
* The very best mode of proselytising—proselytising by example, and
not by preaching.—Ed.
the sensations and feelings of the spirit, as I have explained.
The soul, having been purified to the highest degree with the
spirit, is then replaced by the spiritual body, which is, as I
have told you, the embodiment of all high, holy attributes.
” Thus you may know, that the soul, or centre of all nerve
sensation, which sensations on your earth, are all the emotions
of the mind, or soul, is really the germ of the spiritual body,
but intensely spiritualised. Being sown in dishonour, and
raised in glory—sown in corruption, raised incorruptible.
“ The connexions between the three—body, soul and
spirit—are, as it were, political, moral, and religious.
Political, or eternal. Moral, or having reference to the
effect of your conduct in relation to those around you.
Spirit, being your own essential life, most deeply con¬
cerning’your own future. In the daily walks of life, aK are
needful, and equally important to follow up to a high standard.
Let not any be neglected. Train to the purest harmony the
spirit-life, with the soul and body, then may the influence you
exert in daily life be three-fold in good.” F. J. T,
Hastings, Oct. 24th.
MECHANICALISM.
Sir,—You will kindly allow me to correct a mistake. I
would not claim to protest on behalf of Miss Martineau alone.
The letters on “ The Laws of Man’s Nature and Development”
were published by Miss Martineau and myself in 1851. My
object was to explain that there was but one method of
scientific enquiry, and that metaphysics was a mistake. Had
the facts of Spiritualism been then known, they would have
been included as most essential to an investigation of man’s
nature. I explained that there was one substance and source
of all phenomena, and but one true and efficient method of
enquiry. Dr. Maudsley has followed me in the same view in
his famous opening chapter on Method, and Mr. Lewes has
pursued the like course in his new work, Problems of Life and
Mind, though he leaves the part of Hamlet out of the play by
ignoring the facts both of mesmerism and Spiritualism. This
would be really amusing were it not so sad and pitiable. It is
not materialism that is at fault,but the mechanicalism of the age
—the cold utilitarianism and the denial of the spiritual nature
of mind and instinct by attributing all to inherited experience,
and of course ignoring such matters as clairvoyance and the
intuitive nature of a mind, whereas even ordinary perception
is clairvoyance. That such a man as Mr. Wallace, an ardent
Spiritualist, should be of this school is to me quite incompre¬
hensible. But let us hear no more of materialism as opposed
to Spiritualism, when it is mechanicalism that is meant, and
against which my letters to Miss Martineau are a protest from
first to last. Materialism is simply naturism, and, as such, a
protest against the idea that we have any knowledge out of
nature or beyond, as though there could be bounds to nature
and the universe.
I shall be glad to think that I have misunderstood Mr.
Markley, when referring to Professor Tyndall and saying that
“ the savants stifle the poetry of the emotions,” whereas
philosophical opinions have no more to do with stifling the
emotions than with the progress of crime, as all history abun¬
dantly shows ; the pre-thought of so many great poets in all
ages proves the same thing. The Christian religion is a
grand drama, no doubt, and furnishes subject matter for poet,
painter^ architect, dramatist, and musician ; the heathen
mythology was finely poetical; but truth is ever grander than
fiction, when the enlightened poet becomes inspired by know¬
ledge and realities.
It is difficult for one mind to get to the standpoint of
another whose thoughts are of a different cast, and to judge
rightly of the nature and value of opposing opinions.
Henry G. Atkinson.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, Oct. 24th, 1874.
SCIENTIFIC MATERIALISM.
Sir,—I have not time, nor have you space, for a lengthy
note in reply to the impassioned criticisms of Mr. Atkinson,
your Boulogne correspondent. Had he seen my second article
on the same subject, published in the Peterborough Advertiser,
he would not have dealt me back the “ Queen’s English ” at
such a white heat. I have met Mr. Atkinson’s writings, I
fancy, before, somewhere in print; and while admiring his
philosophical style of address, I cannot altogether endorse the
cultured secularism, of which he is an eloquent champion.
I am too poetic in my temperament and tastes ; confess to an
idealistic respect for religion; albeit that I am speculative to
a fault where truth invites, whether it be in Spiritualism,
216
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 30, 1874.
mesmerism, phrenology, or any of the unnamed progressive
sciences. Moreover, I admire the good, the beautiful, the
humane, and the true, in and outside the pale of Christianity.
This may be a “ weakness ” of temperament, but it affords
me pure and broad intellectual satisfaction. By the way, is
Mr. Atkinson aware of his fine dramatic powers of writing ?
His letter, reflecting upon my opinions, contains many of the
“ burning elements ” of tragedy, and recalls, in some mea¬
sure, the curse of Leah the offended Jewess. Here is a pas¬
sage that Miss Bateman would give with thrilling effect on
the boards of the Lyceum:—“But enough: Mr. Markley’s
statement is, I say, most slanderous, most unjust, and most
untrue,” &c. In fact, I should not wonder if your correspon¬
dent’s able, but rather hot, letter is ultimately dramatised for
the stage. But, seriously, if I have injured the Secularists by
hurriedly-written statements, I am sorry : and although I am
too “ timid ” to accept their coldly-consecrated, unemotional
type of faith, I would not unfairly impute to their brilliant
negations the destructive and unloveable “ Animalism ” of
the age. John T. Markley.
Albert-place, Peterborough, Oct. 26th.
[Scientific materialists and secularists are different orders of people,
who do not coalesce ; experimental philosophers, like many of the
materialists in the Boyal Society, do not work with the secularists, and
base their opinions upon experimental knowledge rather than upon
metaphysical speculation.—Ed.]
Mb. Jenckeit informs us that he has heard, by Atlantic
telegraph, of Mrs. Jencken’s safe arrival in New York, after a
very short passage of nine days.
Messes. Basttan and Tatlob, physical mediums, intend
to travel up the Bhine before they return to England. They
will visit Wiesbaden and Strasburg.
Mbs. Bullock lectured at Goswell Hall, last Sunday
night, on the “ Utility of Spiritual Truths.” The hall was
nearly full. Mr. Haxby occupied the chair. Mr. Barber was
on the platform, and said a few words about Spiritualism.
A stbong effort will be made to make the National
Association offices self-supporting, probably by the establish¬
ment of a reading-room and other conveniences, for the use
of which a charge will be made. Provincial members of the
Association who make temporary visits to London should have
the right of free admission to the establishment. The opinion
has been expressed that if a private hotel for Spiritualists ad¬
joined the central office of the National Association, the hotel
would be well supported. At present there is no hotel for
Spiritualists in London.
Miss Wood’s Mediumship.—Miss Wood, of Newcastle,
who is gradually developing into a strong medium for material¬
isation manifestations, obtains spirit raps in the light with
great certainty. Once we saw her place her hands on a
tambourine, and clear raps or ticks came upon the parchment,
in a strong light, with a dozen or two witnesses round her,
looking on. More mediums for light seances are wanted, dark
seances having been too much encouraged, so that powerful
seances in the light, like those once given daily by Mrs. Mary
Marshall, the younger, are not now obtainable in England,
among professional mediums.
Mb. Mobse’s Voyage.—A few days after Mr. Morse
left England, a fortnight ago, one of the fiercest storms expe¬
rienced for a long time, visited the western coasts of the
British Islands. There were several wrecks, and the weather
was so bad that even the magnificent Holyhead and Dublin
mail packets, noted for their regularity, were detained in
harbour for several hours. As the steamship in which Mr.
Morse sailed started early enough to get clear of the Channel
and of the coast before the storm came on, there is no reason
to suppose that she was in any danger in the open sea, though
she must have had very bad weather directly after getting
fairly into the Atlantic.
Spiritualism: in Liyerpool.—Mrs. Butterfield gave two
interesting trance addresses on Sunday last to the Liverpool
Psychological Society, at the Islington Rooms. The evening
meeting was attended by a large and attentive audience;
indeed, the general interest in the Sunday meetings is now so
largely on the increase, that it will soon become absolutely
necessary for the Psychological Society to engage larger
premises. Dr. William Hitchman will deliver two addresses
next Sunday (November 1st); the subject in the afternoon will
be Professor Tyndall’s “ Materialism,” and in the evening
Professor Tyndall’s “ Spiritualism.” These two lectures are
intended to deal with the latest and best teachings of men of
science.
Mr. Gales Forster, after reaching New York, and
furnishing himself with European passports, found himself so
improved in health that he did not start for Europe, and when
the last mail left, he had not decided whether he would cross
the Atlantic or remain in the United States.
Mr. Conway is writing a complete series of articles on
Decorative Art and Architecture in England, for Harper's
Monthly. He does not agree with Buskin in the total depravity
of English artists and architects, but thinks that even their
failings lean to virtue’s side.
Spiritualism in Newcastle.—A circular just issued
by the Treasurer to the Newcastle Society for Investigating
Spiritual Phenomena, shows that the Society is now out of
debt, the expenses of the late legal proceedings having been
covered by the subscriptions received from various sources.
This society made a donation of £10 to Mr. Morse, just before
he left England.
A writer in Common-Sense says:—When the flood at
Chester was at the highest, and the water was three feet deep
about the house, Master Robert Cluett, five years old, fell upon
his knees and uttered the following prayer:—“0! Lord, I
don’t like this; take it away. You said when you put your
bow in the skies, you would have no more floods. Now, how
is this? Amen.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Mr. Ganney.—Please send us your address.
0. P.—Advertisements are inserted only in the advertising columns.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
IVeasttrer.—Herbert N. Mozlet, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Otfscei —64, BEENEBS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa)
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOYERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of (the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Had
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., Svo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematiaal discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
chools.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London Simpkin, marsh a it. & Co.
Beady by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Book. A new
work on
Spiritualism, science, and Christianity;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Mediumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. to Subscribers, 2s,; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holbom, London, W. C.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; Gorge Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
Oct. SO, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIB/VOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
6s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Gampden-hill, Kensington.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Sh6pherds’-bush
W. Please write.
'ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register tour Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month ef June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road. Bow, London, E.  
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Seances every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’cloek,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o!clock, Tickets 2s. fid. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute-road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. JACKSON’S Table d'Sote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
A LADY COMPANION.- Age not beyond 35; a
Spiritualist; a good musician (thorough); healthy, and a good
walker; good sight, as she would have to read to and walk with a gentle¬
man nearly blind. To make herself generally useful in writing letters when
required, or doing needlework, &c., &c. A comfortable home, but very
quiet. Good salary. Apply Lady Companion, 15, Southampton-row, Lon¬
don, W.C.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for Newspaper.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill,, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeneken, H. D., M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rcss-Church, Mrs. (FlorenceMarryat), 21, Colville-rd.,Kensingston-pk., W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-rd., WestKensington-pk., W.
Da we, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E„ 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goewell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd.,’S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-vilia, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs, M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathiands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Seeretary (pro tetri.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de'Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General del S.I.M. TEmpereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pasth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, a$jl Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petepshurg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.>,America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles. Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lanriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James, MyIne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal..
0. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
’Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 85, Leipsic.
Mons. Bnguet, Paris.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 30, 1874.
THE STEAM-SHIP. AND FACTORY SHAFT-COOPLING
COMPANY, LIMITED.
INCORPORATED UNDER “ THE COMPANIES ACTS, 1862 and 1867,” WHEREBY THE LIABILITY OP SHAREHOLDERS
IS LIMITED.TO THE AMOUNT OF THEIR SHARES. ’ .. j
CAPITAL £150,000 IN 30,000 SHARES OF £5'EACH,
Payable as follows:—£1 on Application, ill 10s.' on Allotment, and the Balance as required, at intervals of not
less than three months.
Directors.
Admiral Sir WM. H. HALL, K.C.B., Director of the Peninsular and .Oriental Company.
Sir/JOHN MURRAY, Bart., of Philiphaugh, N.B., and Reform Club.
Sir HOWARD ELPHINSTONE, Bart., F.G.S., D.C.L., 11, Waterloo Place, Pall Mall, S.W.
Admiral JOHN ALEXANDER DUNT2E, United Service Club. Pall Mall; and Woolwich Common.
W.- CROOKES, Esq., F.R.S., F.C.S., 20, Mornington Road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
Captain D. MILLER, R.N., United Service Club; and 58, Hereford Road, Westbourne Grove, W.
HENRY G. TREND, Esq., Wembdon House, Petherton Road, Highbury New Park.
Managing Director-—Captain D. SPAIN, R.N., United Service Club, and 7, Dartmouth Park Road, Highgate Road, N.W.
Consulting Engineer—C. F. VARLEY, Esq., F.R.S., C.E.
Solicitor—R. S. GREGSON, Esq., 8, Angel Court, E.C.
Auditors—Messrs. BARNARD, CLARKE, M'LEAN, and Co., Lothbury.
Bankers.
The IMPERIAL BANK (Limited), 6, Lothbury, E.C.
The LONDON and SOUTH-WESTERN BANK, Fenchurch Street, E.C., and its Branches.
The CLYDESDALE BANKING COMPANY, Glasgow, and its Branches.
Brokers.
Messrs. C. W. PRICE and DEVOT, Bartholomew House, E.C.
GEORGE MILLER, Esq., 31, St. Vincent Place, Glasgow.
Secretary—H. AGUILAR, Esq., R.N.
Temporary Offices—29, GRESHAM STREET, BANK, LONDON; and 133, WEST GEORGE STREET, GLASGOW.
PEOSPECTUS.
This Company has been formed to supply an urgent want which has long
been felt by the Shipping and manufacturing interests, namely, the repair
of broken shafts at sea and in factories.
The " Engineer,” of 20th December, 1872, observes:
“ It is not a little remarkable that, notwithstanding all the ingenuity
expended on the marine engine, no one has thought of devising some
method of patching up a broken screw shaft at sea.”
The invention consists of a coupling, which can be easily and expe¬
ditiously applied to fractured shafts, and which renders them as strong as
they originally were.
That such an invention was much required and will be largely taken ad¬
vantage of, cannot be doubted, for, on reference to Appendix No. 2, it will
be seen that a large percentage of vessels become disabled, and many of
them total wrecks, through the breakage of screw shafts and paddle shafts,
thus causing serious loss, both of life and property.
After the machinery of a steam vessel has broken down, it is well known
that the charges for towage, &c., are enormous, in addition to which great
losses are caused by the delay which takes place in consequence, and it is
therefore of the utmost importance that every shipowner should provide
himself with the means of enabling his vessels, in case of accident to their
shafts, to resume their course without delay.
According to the returns of the Bureau Veritas ” (Appendix Ne. 3), 244
steamers.of over 100 tons net register were totally lost during the year
1872, and of these unquestionably a large percentage were disabled by
broken shafts.
The “Glasgow Weekly Mail,” of 28th March, 1874, has the following
upon the subject:
“ Why Steamships are Lost.—Among the numbers of first-class steam¬
ships that have disappeared without leaving any record of their fate, I have
little doubt that their loss is mainly attributable to their machinery becom¬
ing disabled,, and the ships unmanageable and getting into the trough of
the sea, and’ffipm their great length and difficulty of manoeuvre, unable to
get out; andpfrom their rolling, and too often from the shifting of bulk
cargo, the vessel cannot right itself, and down she goes without leaving a
trace behind.—‘ Times’ Correspondent.”
The number of merchant steamers afloat in 1872 (vide Appendix No. 4)
was no less 4,336. Of these 2,538 belonged to Great Britain, and averaged
850 tons each. The number of steamers built in Great Britain in 1873,
amounted to 460, averaging 1,167 tons each; the average dimensions in¬
creasing every year, (vide Appendix No. 3), 4,335 steamers in 1872, plus 460
built in 1873, give a total of 4,795 steamers in 1873, and of about 5,250 in
1874.
In factories great numbers of hands are often thrown out of employ¬
ment for a long time by the breakage of main driviog shafts, and the loss
inflicted upon owners and men by the stoppage of a mill in consequence is
very severe. By employing one of this Company’s couplings, a fractured
shaft can be restored to work almost immediately.
It is proposed to make immediate arrangements for the manufacture of
the Company’s couplings, and the result of careful estimates of the cost of
manufacturing them, and the price for which they can readily be sold
(assuming that only 10 per cent, of the vessels afloat adopt them), is that
the annual profits will yield a handsome percentage to the shareholders on
the nominal capital.
In the estimates above referred to, no account has been taken of the
number of couplings which it is believed will be required in factories,
mines, pumping works, and other undertakings, when once the Company
is in a position to supply the demand.
An eminent naval authority, Sir James 'Anderson, formerly Commander
of the steamship Great Eastern, has written a letter (Appendix No. 5) ap¬
proving of the invention. “ The plan,” he observes, “ is so simple and in¬
expensive that I should expect most steamship owners will be willing to
put them on board each steamer as a valuable alternative in case of acci¬
dent to the screw-shaft.”
No promotion money, beyond the cost of advertising and registration,
will be paid by the Company.
By agreements dated the 30th day of May, 1874, and the 7th of October,
1874, respectively entered into between H. Aguilar on behalf of the Com¬
pany on the one part, and Cromwell Fleetwood Varley on the other part,
the Company have secured this Valuable patent for the sum of £15,000 in
cash and £35,000 in fully paid-up shares of the Company.
Application for shares must be made, accompanied by the deposit of £1
per share, to the Secretary or Bankers of the Company. When a less
number of shares is allotted than that applied for, the balance of the de¬
posit will be applied in payment of the sum payable on allotment, and
where no allotment is made the deposit will be returned in full.
Prospectuses and Forms of Applications for Shares can be obtained from
the Brokers and Solicitors, and at the Temporary Offices of the Company,
and a model of the coupling can be seen at any time at the Offices of the
Engineer, 2, Great Winchester-street-buildings, where the fullest explana¬
tion will be given.
The well-known Patent Agents, Messrs. Carpmael and Co., have reported
upon the validity of the patent, and upon the value of the invention. The
following is an extract from their opinion:—
“ I have also caused to be examined the specifications of all prior patents,
of which the titles refer to the coupling of shafts. Nothing has been found
to affect the validity of the above-mentioned patent, nor indeed anything
relating expressly to apparatus for coupling broken propeller shafts.
“ In my opinion the patent is good and valid, and the invention appears
to me to be valuable, and well calculated to attain the object for which it is
designed.
“ WILLIAM CAEPMAEL.
“24, Southampton-buildings, May 23rd, 1874.”
The successful application of the coupling demonstrating clearly its
practical value has been several times shown on board the steamer Era,
which is still running with her shaft secured by the patent coupling.
Opinions of the Press, and a list of casualties to steamers from broken
shafts may be had at the Offices of the Company.
Printed for the Proprietor by BeyeridSe & Co., at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Aye Maria-lano London E.C.
