AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGUSTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 109.—(Vol. Y.—No. 13.) LONDON: SEPTEMBER 25j 1874. Published Weekly; Priee Twopence*
(ftontmg.
Unity among Spiritualists  •  J  ... ... 14$
Marvellous Appearance ot Materialised Spirits:—Description of the
House and Seance Room of the Eddy Mediums—Description of the
Mediums—How they Receive Visitors—How the Seances are Con¬
ducted—Description of the Regular Attendant Spirits—Spirit Drapery
Materialised in the Light—The Departed Mother of one of the Sitters
appears and melts away—The Son of Judge Bacon appears—How
Ann Cuddy assisted in Washing Operations—An Appalling Goblin—
The House full of Them—Spirit Identity—Judge Bacon recognises
five Spirit Relatives—Andrew Jackson Davis on Materialised Spirits 147
Spirit Teachings, No, XV    152
Council Meeting of the National Association  154
A Clergyman Recognises Spirit Relatives at a Seance ...   154
Poetry:—“If I should Die To-night?”    155
Correspondence—A very peculiar Dream; Count Pomar on Reincarna¬
tion; Spiritualism at Llanelly; An Explanation; Mr. Morse’s Soiree 155
Answers to Correspondents      156
Paragraphs—Spiritualism in Germany, 153; Strange Hallucination,
154 ; Mr. Morse in the North, 156; Spiritualism in Manchester, 156;
Passed to Spirit Life, 156; Misrepresentations   ... ... 156
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. London : Simfkin, Marshall & Co.
BIREBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing fulliparticulars may -foe obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. £9 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It. is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with p iritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W". Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
'NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
_ (Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press,
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
Mr. Morse will sail for America on Thursday, October 15th, per steam-ship
Celtic, White Star Line. He can receive no more engagements prior to
his departure, his time being fully engaged.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested lo communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
A THIRD SERIES OF
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
Committee.
AlexanderCalder, Esq., The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
THE above ladies and gentlemen encouraged by the
success which attended the two former courses of lectures last
season by Mrs. Tappan, have formed themselves into a committee with
power to add to their number for engaging that Lady for the whole of the
coming season.
There will be 36 lectures, commencing on the 29th of October, and
ending in June next, divided into courses of twelve each, which will be
delivered on Sunday evenings at The Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer
street, Portland-place.
A subscriber of £5 for the whole series will be entitled to a reserved
seat for himself and a friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures will be issued at
24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. tickets.
All seats not claimed five minutes before delivery of the address will be
filled up if required.
Tickets to be obtained only of the Secretary and Treasurer, on enclosing
post office order. Single Tickets will be sold at the doors.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—TUx. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby,
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr, Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, ttnd spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. .25, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
, Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland .
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Remew.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubnbr & Co.,' 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
MARTLEBONE SOCIETY OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER^STREET, W. .
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS. — LEC¬
TURES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening af 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy- (“Iota.”) Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC - SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London. ..
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Mohammed and Mohammedanism: Lectures
delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain in February and
March, 1874. By R. BOS WORTH SMITH, M. A. Crown 8vo., 6s.
“ A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published.”—Academy.
“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicial
reasoning, and eloquent exposition.”—Scotsman.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, &c
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIYE mesmerism,
THE next monthly social meeting of the society, will
be! held at the above address on Monday evening, September 7th, at
half-past seven, when it is hoped every member will be present. Friends
also desirous of joining the Association, are cordially invited to attend.
Admission Free.
Discussions will also be held here on the following subjects, viz.:—
Wednesday, Sept. 2th.—Will the establishment of a National Association
of Spiritualists be beneficial to the cause and progress of Spiritualism ?
Wednesday, Sept. Kith.—Are iha phenomena of modern Spiritualism simi¬
lar to those related in the Old and New Testaments?
Wednesday, Sept. 23rd.—Are the teachings of modem Spiritualism in har¬
mony with those of the New Testament ?
Wednesday, 22th.—Is modem Spiritualism calculated to benefit humanity ?
To commence at 8 o’clock. Admission 2d.
Non-Spiritualists and Inquirers are especially invited to take part in these
discussions. Charles Hunt, Secretary.
MR. MORSE’S FAREWELL BENEFIT SOIREE.
Patrons.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
Dr. Gully.
Dr. Sexton,
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Algernon Joy, JEsq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq.
Mrs. Tappan.
Mrs. Makdougall Gogory.
Mrs. Everitt.
Mrs. Tebb.
Miss Kislingbury.
Arrangments are being made, by the metropolitan friends of Mr. J. J.
Morse to give him a complijjienljgly farewell soiree previous to his departure
for America in October neiafe ilhe meeting will be held in the
CO-OPERATIVE INSTITUTE (late Princess’s Concert Rooms),
55, Castle-street, Oxford-street, W.
On THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 8th, 1874.
The proceeds of the above soiree will be presented to Mr. Morse to assist
him in the object he has in view. The proceedings will be similar to those
at last year’s soiree, which proved so highly attractive. Refreshments
will be served during the early part of the evening, and selections of vocal
and instrumental music, interspersed with a few speeches, will occupy the
remainder of the time. Tickets for soiree and entertainment, 2s. 6d.; for
entertainment only, Is. 6d.
The chair will be occupied by Mr. Thomas Everitt. Further particulars
in future advertisements.
Mrs. F. A. Maltby, hon. sec.,
8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith.
GOSWELL HALL.
MEi
S. BULLOCK (Trance Speaker) will LECTURE
on SUNDAY EVENINGS (commencing on the 27th of September),
at GOSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.
Lectures on the following ^Subjects will be given by Mrs. BULLOCK,
under the Influence of her Spirit-guides: —
September 27th. “ Life’s Ultimate; or, the Progress of the Soul in the
Spirit-spheres.”
October 4th. “ Death Destroyed; or, Man’s Eternal Career proved by
Modern Spiritualism.”
October 11th.—“Nature, and the Laws of Nature; the Lesson of Life.”
October 18th.—“The essence of the Spirit of God.”
October 25th.—“The Unity of Spiritual Truths.”
NoVember 1st.—“The Celestial Heaven.”
After this Course subjects for Lectures may be selected by the
Audience. Doors open at 6.30, service at 7. Investigators and others,
desiring information, may communicate with Mr. JOHN W. HAXBY, 8,
Sandall-road, Camden Town, N.W.
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
ON SUNDAY, tlie 27th inst., MR. COGMAN’S
QUARTERLY TEA MEETING takes place. Tea on the table at
five o’clock. Tickets one shilling each, 15, St. > Peter’s-road, Mile-end-
road, E.
VOJ-UjVIE FIVE. jHU]VlBEF( THIRTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2Bth, 1874.
Spntalxst
Established in 1869.
CHARG-E FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Ooerespondbncb.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “The Spiritualist'1'1 in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments arid irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and do., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. dadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA,
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 164, Bourke-street.
Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and NewJZealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
Tgl EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
UNITY AMONG! SPIRITUALISTS.
There is a coming time of which poets have sung
and philosophers have dreamed, when the lion shall
lie down with the lamb, when the spears shall he
beaten into pruning-hooks, and war shall he no more.
Meanwhile the round world groans on as usual, and
pale-eyed Patience, with wan face, looks forwards,
almost hopelessly, for the realisation of the wish, in
the midst of the sorrows with which man has sur¬
rounded his fellow-man. The first morning gleams of
the happy time might reasonably be expected to be¬
come visible to those who, in this dark, materialistic
age, have, in defiance of custom and priestly power,
sought out spiritual truth for themselves, and suc¬
ceeded to such an extent as to have established com¬
munication—imperfect though it be—between the
living and the dead. There are thoughtful persons
in our midst who have maintained that Spiritualists
are so mentally constituted that they can never agree,
and have pointed to isolated examples of discordance
tending to prove that disunion is our normal condition.
The truth probably is that, as a city on a distant hill
appears to be surpassingly beautiful, but when closely
viewed in detail presents many a repulsive and un¬
romantic scene, so those who actually take part in any
religious movement can see blemishes of which the
more distant and casual observer is unaware. If all
religious bodies could be viewed from a distant and
impartial standpoint, perhaps Spiritualists would be
seen to be slightly in advance of the rest, and that the
faults within the movement tend to make it—
“ Like the young moon with a ragged edge,
Still, in its imperfection, beautiful.”
Hitherto such has been our opinion about Spiritualism,
and when the objection has been put—“ How is it then
that the advocates of any little sect, such as Jumpers,
Particular Baptists, or Peculiar Peeple, can raise a
conventicle of their' own after preaching in any
neighbourhood for a few months, while all the Spirit¬
ualists of the United Kingdom cannot raise a single
decent public building?”—the answer has invariably
been—“ But we have never yet been offered an
opportunity of banding together.” This opportunity
was first given by the action of the National Conference
of Spiritualists at Liverpool last year, when it was
unanimously resolved to organise throughout the country,
-and a Council was, appointed to get through the
preliminary work.
Far-seing men and women who love peace and hate
discord, hailed with joy this opportunity of banding
together in amity and good-will; the consequence
has been that in the short five or six months since the
National Association has issued its prospectus, nearly
all those who form the brain and backbone of the
spiritual movement in this country have joined the
organisation. For instance, the presidents and secte-
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 25, 1874.
taries of local societies all over the kingdom, who are
elected to those posts by their fellow-workers because
of their capacity, and the love they bear to the cause,
have very generally joined the Association, so also have
nearly all the independent pioneers of the movement,
who have distinguished themselves by their vigour and
intelligence. Most of the heart and brain of the
movement are included in the two hundred odd
members who have already joined in the work; from
five to ten new members are usually elected at
each meeting of the Council, and at the beginning of the
coming year it is known that there will be a con¬
siderable additional influx. With members of the present
stamp, the work of the Association has been done in a
peaceable and harmonious manner; indeed, in those
few instances in which divisions upon certain questions
have been so close as to be decided only by a majority
of one, there has been no trace of bad feeling or dis¬
content on the part of the minority, who then always
yielded with good grace. Even the injudicious intro¬
duction at one time of theological controversy failed to
produce discord.
But whilst with educated Spiritualists union has
been going on harmoniously and satisfactorily, it has
been different with others who have not been careful to
make themselves accurately acquainted with what has
been taking place during the last two years in Spirit¬
ualism, and who have been intentionally misguided by
one or two scheming persons on the one side, and un¬
intentionally misguided by one or two eccentric persons
on the other. The consequence is that at the present
time the better informed Spiritualists are bit by bit en¬
lightening their careless brethren who have been too
easily misled. Broadly speaking, the first effect of the
present attempt at organisation has been to draw
together well-educated Spiritualists, and others are
slowly following as they gradually learn how they have
been misguided.
In the midst of the contention thus raised, one or two
arguments against organisation have been advanced by
conscientious people from conscientious motives, con¬
sequently these require to be entirely separated from
the others, and considered with respectful attention.
Mr. D. Richmond and Mr. Tilby argue that there is
much in organisation which tends to do away with
equality among Spiritualists, consequently Mr. Rich¬
mond is opposed to all organisations, and will join none,
whilst Mr. Tilby only joined the Marylebone Associa¬
tion with hesitation. He will, to be consistent, pro¬
bably resign and join the National Association instead,
because it has a freer constitution, consequently ap¬
proaches nearer to his ideal. Mr. Richmond was one
of the first men to introduce Spiritualism into England;
he had lived for some time among the Shakers in
America, then left them, and in their peculiar dress
perambulated Yorkshire, making known some of the
facts of the new revelation. Then he settled down to
his occupation in the Quaker town of Darlington,
where he does not work in the local organisation of
Spiritualists, but talks against it, to its face; he con-
quently has that local celebrity which always hangs to
a man who thinks differently from everybody else, and
sticks to his text oracularly, speaking like one having
authority, and not as the Scribes. He desires the
establishment of social meetings, with no president,
secretary, treasurer, or other officer, the only authority
he recognises and supports being his managing repre¬
sentative in London. The Darlington Association,
which can scarcely be said to have any officer but a
treasurer, is too much of an organisation for him, the
National Association is worse in his eyes, and from the
Marylebone Association he would flee with horror, be¬
cause its constitution is more conservative than either
of the other two, leaving less power in the hands of the
members, and more in that of the governing body.
With the inconsistency which distinguishes men of
genius, Mr. Richmond once tried to get up an organisa¬
tion of his own in Darlington with president, secretary,
and treasurer, and Mr. Gr. R. Hinde now has a copy of
the prospectus; further, Mr. Richmond misguided
searchers after truth by publishing a few days ago that
this journal was the organ of the National Association
—which it is. not; it is no more its organ than is Mr.
Richmond, iand it criticises it just as freely. The
Spiritualist newspaper is the only one connected with
the movement which has strongly supported disin¬
terested Spiritualists, free from trade interests, and not
connected with any of the spiritual periodicals, in
banding together, for the good of the whole movement,
in an organisation where they could give effect to their
desires quite independently of the newspapers. An
independent tribunal like this was much wanted for
many reasons.
But to face the principle at issue, that “there is much
in organisation tending to do away with ideas of
equality,” it may be admitted that this is true. Eor in¬
stance, directly a body of men meet for more than social
pleasure or idle talk, and begin co-operative work, from
that moment do the differences between them come into
view; it is just the same with horses when they are
taken from a field and put to real work. It was the
same with the little Marylebone Society, whose repre¬
sentative man at the National Conference was Mr.
Burns; directly this society was organised and began
work, it had to appoint Mr. White as secretary, who
gave time and labour which others did not give, con¬
sequently his equality with the others then ceased,
and he was raised by virtue of his work. Thus it is
with the present secretary, Mr. Hunt, and so is it with
all other secretaries of local societies. The honorary secre¬
taryship of the National Association will gradually grow
into a very important post on the same principle. Put a
large body of men together to build a locomotive, and
the locomotive cannot be built without each man falling
into his proper place, the one with most brains going
to the top, and the one who can do only mechanical
work under instructions, to the bottom; and the instant
this arrangement is made, sad havoc is made with the
apparent equality of idleness. The same thing occurs
with all organisations for doing work; the harder, the
larger, and the more useful the work, the more do the
inequalities of individuals come out; this may or may
not be bad, but so it is, and as the Almighty is respon¬
sible for these differences in men, Messrs. Richmond
and Tilby may try their ’prentice hands at reversing
His laws ; in the meantime, the rest of us think it
wisest to accept them without waste of time, so cannot
do better than to imitate the example of the members
of the Marylebone Society, and organise. The right
principle in organisation is, that each man shall be
equal in the eye of the law; this is so in the National
Association, where any member is eligible for election
to any of the offices, from that of president downwards.
But as to personal uniformity, or equality in capacity
to do work, there is no such thing in nature; were it
otherwise, the world would have to bid farewell to—
Sept. 25, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
“ Men who have vulgarised sublimity,
And bought up truth for the nations; parted it
As soldiers lotted once the garb of God ;
Men who have forged gods—uttered—made them pass :
In whose words, to be read with many a heaving
Of the heart, is a power, like wind and rain—
Whose thoughts, like bars of sunshine in shut rooms,
Mid gloom, all glory, win the world to light;
Who make their very follies like their souls ;
And like the young moon with a ragged edge,
Still, in their imperfection, beautiful;
Whose weaknesses are lovely as their strengths,'
Like the white nebulous matter between stars,
Which, if not light, at least is likest light;
Men whom we build our love round like an arch
Of triumph, as they pass us on their way
To glory and to immortality ;
Men whose great thoughts possess us, like a passion,
Through every limb and the whole heart; whose words
Haunt us as eagles haunt the mountain air;
Thoughts which command all coming times and minds.
Who shed great thoughts
As easily as an oak looseneth its golden leaves
In a kindly largess to the soil it grew on ;
Whose rich dark ivy thoughts sunned o’er with love,
Flourish around the deathless stems of their names;
Whose names are ever on the world’s broad tongue,
Like sound upon the falling of a force;
Whose words, if winged, are with angel’s wings ;
Who play upon the heart as on a harp,
And make our eyes bright as we speak of them.”
The argument that a small organisation is good, and
a large one bad, refutes itself; it means that a tug-boat
is good, whilst an ocean-going steamer, is a calamity.
Further, let everybody be equal on board the tug-boat,
with no captain or helmsman, the craft in a rough sea will
compare very poorly with an ocean steamer manned in the
way which experience and common-sense prove to be
necessary. However, it is of no use, and would not be
right to try to force the convictions of those who think
differently, so the National Association cannot do better
than to inaugurate a masterly inaction, and leave the
temporary dissentients alone most severely. It should
work on quietly, making itself a model of peace and
good-will to all men, doing good to the movement un¬
obtrusively whenever it can, and leaving Father Time
to bring about the usual result of the extinction of error
and the survival of truth.
MARVELLOUS APPEARANCE OF MATERIALISED
SPIRITS.
Some extraordinary materialisation manifestations,
apparently far in advance of any now taking place in
England, have been going on for a long time at the
residence of the Eddy family in America, and descrip¬
tions of their seances have been frequently published in
the spiritual periodicals there and elsewhere. Mr.
Henry S. Olcott recently attended some of the seances
as the special correspondent of the New York Sun—a
well-managed old-established daily paper—and the
following account of what he saw was published in
that journal on the fifth of this month (September):—
DESCBIPTION OE THE HOUSE AND SEANCE EOOM OE THE EDDX
MEDIUMS.
Mr. Olcott, whose letter is dated from Chittenden,
Vermont, Sept. 2nd, says:—
The scene of the objective phenomena known as the Eddy
manifestations is a gloomy farm-house on the turnpike road
that runs north from Rutland, in a valley skirted on both
sides by ranges of the Green Mountains. The distance from
Rutland is seven miles, and the nearest Post-office, Chitten¬
den, Rutland county. To reach it from New York one takes
the New Haven and Hartford and Springfield Railroads to
Springfield, and the Connecticut River and Vermont Central
roads to Rutland, whence conveyance is by wagon to the Eddy
homestead. The visitor can also reach Rutland by way of the
Hudson River and Troy. The expense is 10 dols., besides
meals—8 dols. for a ticket from New York to Rutland, and
2 dols. for the wagon ride. The house was built nearly a
century ago, stands close to the road, and is shaded by several
trees, whose dense foliage, shutting out all sunlight, makes the
dark brown structure appear more sombre and inhospitable.
It is furnished in the plainest manner, the floors all bare, the
chairs of wood, the dining tables of planed boards, knocked
together like those commonly seen in picnics and camp
meetings, the walls without decoration, and nowhere any
evidences of luxury, barely of comfort. A wing at the back
holds the dining room, a small kitchen and pantry below, and
overhead is the circle-room. This is an apartment of 48 by
16 feet, with three windows on each side. At the west end is
a raised platform the width of the room, about two feet high
by four broad, reached by three steps of about ten inches rise.
Between the kitchen chimney, which is in the middle, and the
right hand wall is a small cupboard or closet, lathed and
plastered, with a very narrow door, six feet and one inch high,
opening from the platform, and a single window for purposes
of ventilation. This closet is the “ cabinet ” in which the
medium sits. A light hand rail runs from side to side of the
room at the edge of the platform. Perhaps a simple diagram
will aid in obtaining a clearer idea of the place where most of
the occurrences transpired that I am about to relate :—
F
LL—Two benches; M—Small stand on which a kerosene lamp stands.
DESCEIPTION OE THE MEDIUMS.
Mr. Olcott thus describes tho medium and the other
members of the family :—
The mediumistic faculty is said to be shared by the whole
family of Eddy children, originally twelve in number, but now
reduced at the homestead by marriage and death to five—
three sons and two daughters. It will interest Dr. Elam, Mr.
Upham, Mr. Wallace, and other students of pyschology and
hereditary transmission of traits, to know that the great¬
grandmother on the female side was condemned to death at
Salem, in 1694, for “ witchcraft.” She escaped the gallows,
however, by being rescued from the jail by her friends. As
nearly as I can discover by inquiry from others than the parties
interested themselves, the phenomena accompanied the chil¬
dren through their school-days, and being misunderstood by
their parents, were the occasion of their getting many sound
whippings to “ lick the devil out of them.” The grandmother
was a •' foreseer,” and the mother was also, like the Goethes,
Pietro Allighieri (the son of Dante), Cazotte, the Highland
gude-wives, the Danish seers, and hosts of others in various
parts of the world, subject to previsionary warnings of events
to come, and she ultimately became a believer in Spiritualism.
But old Mr. Eddy, the father, was a tough knot, and com-
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 25, 1874.
placently assigned a diabolical agency to whatever he could
not pronounce humbug.
While still small children the Eddys were in the habit of
going to a neighbour’s house to see the queer things that
happened in “ circles ” (just as the Paris and Proctor girls
went to sit with Tituba, in Salem, before the witchcraft
tragedies were enacted), and they supposed that other persons
than themselves were the mediums. But after awhile the
same things occurred in their presence at home, and then
followed the parental trouncings referred to. Until about a
year ago the phenomena following them are said to have
comprised only rappings, playing on instruments, bell ringings,
the show of hands, the tying and untying of knotted cords
and unlocking of handcuffs, mysterious voices, and the
lifting of their bodies to the ceiling of the room or public hall
in which they chanced to be exhibiting; but since then at
their own home and elsewhere, forms, apparently of spirits,
have been “ materialised,” like that of “ Katie King,” have
walked, talked, produced spectral lights, and woven ghost-
cloth in the presence of great numbers of people.
■ There is nothing about the Eddys or their surroundings
to inspire confidence on first acquaintance. The brothers
Horatio and William, who are the present mediums, are
sensitive, distant, and curt to strangers, look more like hard¬
working, rough farmers than prophets or priests of a new
dispensation, have dark completions, black hair and eyes,
stiff joints, a clumsy carriage, shrink from advances, and
make new-comers feel ill at ease and unwelcome. The house
is dark, rough, and uninviting, the appurtenances of the
rudest, the astounding stories of what the Eddys do excite
suspicion and invite distrust, and it would not be strange if a
majority of persons ^attending only one seance should
leave, as did a gentleman who came here with me, persauded
that it was a colossal humbug. I thought about as much
myself at first, and it was not until a second and third
opportunity had been afforded me to enter the circle-room, to
inspect the cabinet before and after the performances, and T
had informed myself from perfectly trustworthy sources as to
their antecedents, that I became willing to put my name to
this tale and say that, whatever the source of the marvels may
be, it is certainly not the chicanery or legerdemain of a pair
of expert thaumaturgists. It suffices to leave each to form his
own doctrine, and join with Cicero, who, in describing the
different kinds of magic, says : “What we have to do with is
the facts, since of the cause we know little. Neither are we
to repudiate these phenomena, because we sometimes find
them imperfect.”
HOW THEY RECEIVE VISITORS.
The following are the conditions on which visitors are
admitted to the seances:—
The visitors to the Eddy homestead during the past year
exceed several hundred in number, and hail from every
section xof the country. A very rigid ordeal of scrutiny has to
be undergone before admission to the house is obtained, more
than forty persons having been rejected last week. The
brothers say their choice is made under spirit impression, and
that it is as easily and more satisfactorily made from a letter
than from a sight of the applicant. They do not like the
business of mediumship, are anxious to sell their farm and
quit, do not want visitors, shrink from new acquaintances,
and if “ the spirits would let them, would never hold another
circle.” It is sheer folly to come to their house on the chance
of being'admitted if time and money are any object, communi¬
cation by letter being in all cases preferable. They can get no
servants to live in the house, and so have to do all the house¬
work—cooking, washing, and everything—themselves, and as
they charge nothing for stances, and but 8 dols. per week f or
board, there is small profit and much work in taking boarders.
They say they sit for the pleasure of others, not for their own,
and if people do not choose to comply with their rules they
can stay away. They are at feud with some of their neigh¬
bours, and as a rule not liked either in Rutland or Chittenden.
I am now satisfied, after a very careful sifting of the matter,
that this hostility and the ugly stories told about them are the
result of their repellent manners and the ill name that their
ghost-room, has among a simple-minded, prejudiced people,
and not to any moral turpitude on their part. They are in
fact under the ban of a public opinion that is not prepared or
desirous to study the phenomena as either scientific marvels
or revelations from another world.
I have been thus particular and circumstantial in preface,
because the data are necessary to enable the intelligent reader
to judge both as to the credibility of this narrative and the
thoroughness of the narrator. Many points noted in my
memorandum book as throwing suspicion upon the Eddys I
omit, because, upon sifting them, I found there was an easy
explanation, and I cheerfully admit that my impressions of
the brothers, as to their honesty in the matter of the manifes¬
tations, as well as their personal worth, have steadily im¬
proved since the first day. I am satisfied, moreover, that
they have not the ability to produce them if they should try,
which they do not, nor the wardrobe nor properties requisite
to clothe the multitude of forms (estimated at over 2,000) that
during the twelvemonth last past have emerged from the cabi¬
net and stalked the narrow platform.
HOW THE SEANCES ARE CONDUCTED.
Mr. Olcott then describes how the seances are con¬
ducted :—
My narrative will be confined to appearances of material
or “ materialised ” forms, as the reader chooses, little or no
account being made of the class of minor phenomena, such as
have been witnessed by vast numbers who have attended the
exhibitions of the Davenport Brothers and other like mediums,
and which the Eddys show both in dark and light circles in
great perfection. After seeing what one sees here, the
“hands” of the Davenports, the “masks” of Slade, the
“ busts ” at Moravia, and the shadowy hands that so puzzled
Lord Brougham and Sir David Brewster may be regarded as
trivialities, worthy of no more than a passing mention in any
future treatise on these mysteries of psychology. The circles
here begin at eight o’clock p.m. every day but Sundays, when
none are held. The visitors assemble in the circle room,
which has been kept locked all day (another cause for
suspicion to the sceptic, but accounted for by believers on
the ground that each person sheds a certain aura, or some¬
thing about him which tends to pollute the mesmeric atmo¬
sphere of a room, and that is prejudicial to the best exhibition
of these phenomena), at half-past seven, and spend a half-
hour in dancing, singing, or otherwise, to promote something
like harmony and cheerful feeling in all present. They are
then invited to seat themselves on the benches, and William
Eddy hangs a thick shawl over the door of the cabinet, which
he enters, and sits on the chair G. The lamp is turned down
until only a dim light remains ; the sitters in front join hands,
and a violinist, placed at the extreme right of the row and
nearest the platform, plays on his instrument. All is then
anxious expectation. Presently the curtain stirs, is pushed
aside, and a form steps out and faces the audience. Seen in
the obscurity, silent and motionless, appearing in the character
of a visitor from beyond the grave, it is calculated to arouse
the most intense feelings of awe and terror in the minds of
the timid; but happily the idea is so incomprehensible, the
supposition so unwarrantable, even absurd, that at first most
people choose to curiously inspect the thing as a masquerading
pleasantry on the part of the man they saw a moment before
enter the cabinet. That the window of his closet is twenty
feet from the ground; that no ladder can be found about the
premises; that there is no nook or corner of the house
where a large wardrobe can be stored without detection; that
the medium totally differs in every material particular from
the majority of the phantoms evoked; that the family are
barely rich enough to provide themselves with the necessaries
of life, let alone a multitude of costly theatrical! properties,
avails nothing, although everybody can satisfy himself upon
these points as I did. The first impression is that there is
some trickery ; for to think otherwise is to do violence to the
world’s traditions from the beginning until now. Besides
which, the feeling of terror is lessened by the apparition
being seen by each person in company with numerous other
mortals like himself, and the locked hands and touching
shoulders on each side soon beget confidence. If the shape
is recognised it bows and retires, sometimes after addressing
words in a whisper or a natural voice, as the case may be, to
its friends, sometimes not.
DESCRIPTION OE THE REGULAR ATTENDANT SPIRITS.
Mr. Olcott next describes the spirits who are regu¬
larly in attendance at the seances as follows :—
After an interval of two or three minutes the curtain is
again lifted, and another form, quite different in sex, gait,
costume, complexion, length and arrangement of hair, height
I and breadth of body, and apparent age, comes forth; to be
Sept. 25, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
149
followed in turn by others and others, until after an hour or
so the session is brought to a close, and the medium reappears
with haggard eyes and apparently much exhausted. In the
three seances I have attended, I have seen shapes of Indian
men and women, and white persons, old and young, each in a
different dress, to the number of thirty-two; and I am told by
respectable persons who have been here a long while, that the
number averages about twelve a night. The Eddys have sat
continuously for nearly a year, and are wearied in body and
mind by the incessant drain upon their vital force which is
said to be inevitable in these phenomena. For want of a
better explanation, I may as well state that they claim that
the manifestations are produced by a band of spirits, organised
with a special director, mistress of ceremonies, chemist,
assistant chemist, and dark and light circle operators. The
director is an unknown spirit of high intelligence; the mis¬
tress of ceremonies in William’s circle a Mrs. Eaton, who died
about two years and a half ago in Central New York; the
chemist, a very aged white woman, calling herself “ The
Witch of the Mountains; ” the assistant chemist, an Indian
girl named Honto; the light circle operator, a sailor named
George Dix; and the mistress of the dark circle, a little
Italian maiden, calling herself “ Mayflower,” who is assisted
by Dix and a number of others. I saw of these Mrs. Eaton,
Honto, and the Witch of the Mountain, and heard them and
Dix and Mayflower also speak. The two last named did not
appear to the eye, but spoke in a dark circle. Mrs. Eaton is a
little old woman, dressed in a greyish calico dress (or some
stuff that looked like that fabric), and a long check apron.
Her voice is loud and strong, but more like a man’s falsetto,
and the first evening, before I had seen her, I fancied it was
William Eddy himself, and was much annoyed at the apparent
cheat. Honto is about five feet five inches high, a well-made,
buxom girl, of dark copper complexion, and with long black
hair. She is very agile and springy in gait, graceful in move¬
ment, and evidently a superior person of her class.
SPIRIT DRAPERY MATERIALISED IN THE LIGHT.
At my second seance Honto in my presence readied
up to the bare white wall and pulled out a piece of
gauzy fabric about four yards long, which parted from
the plastering with a click, as if the end had been glued
to it. She hung it over the railing to show us its
texture, and then threw it into the cabinet. At either
end of the platform she plucked, as if from the air
itself, knitted shawls, which she opened and shook, and
passed behind the curtain. Then descending the steps
to the floor of the room, she pulled another from under
Horatio Eddy’s chair, where I had seen nothing but
the bare floor a moment before. Then returning to
the platform, she danced to the accompaniment of the
violin, after which she re-entered the cabinet and was
gone. Let it be noticed that this creature had the
shoulders, bust, and hips of a woman, a woman’s hair
and feminine ways, and that she was at least four
inches shorter than William Eddy, who measures 5 feet
9 inches, and weighs 174 pounds.
A very estimable old lady of the neighbourhood, a
Mrs. Cleveland, told me that one evening, some doubt
being expressed as to Honto’s sex, she beckoned my
informant to the platform, opened her own dress, and
caused her to place her hand upon the naked bosom,
and feel the beating of her heart. Mrs. Cleveland
-certifies that she is indeed a woman, and in the action
of her heart, the inspiration and expiration of her
lungs, and temperature of her skin as substantial and
lifelike as any woman she ever laid hand upon. It will
also be recollected that Mrs. Florence Marryat Ross-
Church was permitted to feel “ Katie King’s” body in
like manner in London, and that her report corrobo¬
rates Mrs. Cleveland’s. At my third seance, the same
old lady being present, Honto called her up, and in¬
stantly forming one of her shadowy shawls, pulled it
apparently from the back of Mrs. Cleveland’s neck.
She also, it almost seemed as if to answer the doubt in
my mind, stood beside that lady, who is of the average
height of her sex, and showed that she (Honto) is just
about five feet four or five inches high. Before retiring
on this occasion, she danced with Mrs. Cleveland as a
partner. Little Mayflower, whom, as I said, I did not
see, but whom I felt and heard talk and sing in a dark
circle, favoured me with her history. She says she has
been dead about a century. She is of Italian parent¬
age, her parents settling in the wilds of Canada, being
murdered by Indians, and herself made captive and
adopted into the tribe. She only lived to the age of
eleven, and, therefore, according to the laws of spiritual
intercourse, is obliged to appear as a child whenever
she approaches us. I held quite a long discourse with
this charming little creature, whose voice is sweet and
sympathetic, who improvises verses upon any subject
given on the spur of the moment, like an expert Italian
improvisatore, and who plays upon the mouth harmoni-
con in a truly ravishing manner. The child came and
stood at my Tcnee, talking to me the while, and playing
upon a guitar that she rested upon my lap. I make
this statement thus unqualified because, although it
was dark, and I saw nothing, her presence was palpable
to at least two of my senses, both at the time preter-
naturally acute. I can at least vouch that this phan¬
tom was neither of the Eddy brothers, if I doubted the
genuineness of any of the rest, which I now do not.
THE DEPARTED MOTHER OE ONE OE THE SITTERS APPEARS
AND MELTS AWAY.
One of the most amazing sights I have beheld in
this memorable vacation visit was the appearance of an
aged lady, clad in white, who emerged from the cabinet,
called her son to her, met him near the steps, put her
arms about his neck, kissed him so audibly that every¬
body in the room could hear it, helped him clear across
the platform to the chair H, one arm over his shoulder,
and the other hand holding his hand, whispering some
private matters into his ear, and again embracing him
before retiring into the cabinet. The gentleman, a Mr.
Pritchard of Albany, says he saw every wrinkle in his
mother’s face, the colour and sparkle. of her eye, the
colour of her complexion and hair, and every detail of
her dress to the very ribbon in her old-fashioned cap.
Fancy, for one moment, being witness to a meeting
between a son and his mother, who comes from beyond
the grave to see hiin after a lapse of several years!
The same thing occurred to him before, and on that
occasion his mother, having ■ apparently overstayed her
time and exhausted the force, whatever it may be, that
materialises her body, turned suddenly to leave him.
As she receded toward the curtain, she began to sink
to the floor, “ as,” to use Mr. Pritchard’s own words,
“ a piece of butter would melt down if placed on a hot
plate,” and having barely strength to push aside the
shawl, she dwarfed until she was not above eighteen
inches in height, when her son finally lost sight of her.
Once Mr. Pritchard saw a like catastrophe happen to
Honto, who ventured too far away from the cabinet,
and entirely dissolved before she could regain it. As a
further evidence, if any should be required, that William
Eddy and the Indian girl are not identical, I again
quote Mrs. Cleveland, whose word none who know her
will dispute, and who says that once, when on the
platform at Honto’s bidding, she grasped her by the
hand, and chancing to pass the other hand along Honto’s
arm, she found, to her horror, that it was only partially
materialised, the hands alone being perfectly solid.
150
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 2'5, 1874.
THE SOH OF JUDGE BACON APPEARS.
Of the thirty-two spirit forms I have seen, more than
three-fourths were recognised by persons present as
near relatives. The first evening, my eyes not being
accustomed to the light, nor my powers of observation
trained to watch details, the spectral shapes came and
went in a confusing manner; but the second and third
seances found me prepared to scrutinise the phenomena
with deliberation. The reader will please remember
that owing to my inhospitable reception, the suspicions
excited by the place and its surroundings, and the
astounding claims put forth by the spiritual press as to
the Eddy manifestations, I was on the alert to detect
fraud and expose it. As each phantom came into view
I observed its height against the door jamb, its probable
weight, its movements, apparent age, style of wearing
the hair, and beard if a man, the nature and elaborate¬
ness of its costume, and the external marks of sex, as
regards form—all the while having in mind the square,
Dutch build and heavy movements of William Eddy.,
I saw men, women, and children come one after another
' before me, and in no one instance detected the slightest
evidence of trickery. Among the remarkable tests of
identity coming under my notice was the appearance of
a young soldier of about twenty years of age, the son
of Judge Bacon of St. Johnsbury, Vt., whose death
occurred under painful circumstances in the army, and
whose name or existence even had not been mentioned
by his father to any person about the place. The
spirit was clothed in a dressing-gown, light trousers,
and a white shirt with turn-down collar. He was in¬
stantly recognised. The night that Mr. Pritchard was
sitting on the chair H, two of his nephews, dressed
differently, wearing their beards in different ways,
differing in height and appearance in a marked degree,
stepped forth and shook hands with him. I sat within
five yards of them, and saw them with entire distinctness.
HOW ANN CUDDY ASSISTED IN WASHING OPERATIONS.
At my last seance the old “ Witch of the Mountain/’
a withered old hag, with tottering gait and snow-white
locks, came out, sat in a chair, called up several of the
audience to shake hands with her and receive other
tokens of her friendliness, and' after making Judge
Bacon feel the length and silkiness of her hair, gave
him leave to pull out a lock as a keepsake, which
he did, and I saw the hair in his possession. This old
woman is credited with the performance of a sort
of miracle, of which I think I was almost the sole
witness. William Eddy does most of the house-work
about the place—-even to the washing—and very
frequently goes about chattering an Irish brogue, and
acting like one of those model servant-girls, whom
somebody describes as “ steam engines in petticoats.”
At such times he is supposed to be obsessed by the ghost
of a servant-girl, one Ann Cuddy, an honest sort
of creature, who departed this life at Cleveland some
years since. Yesterday William was washing in the
yard, the kettle for boiling the clothes hanging over a
chip fire near by. For want of something better to do
at the moment, I gathered a few chips and was mending
the fire when William, or perhaps we might rather say
“ Ann,’’ using his vocal organs, said to me: “ Sure, any
fool can make a fire with wood: I’ll show yez how to
make one burn with water!”—and dipping some water
out of the horse-trough close at hand, he flung it upon
the flickering fire. Immediately the cauldron was
enveloped in a great blaze, as if he had poured alcohol
or oil upon the embers, and every piece of fuel was
kindled. Recovering from my surprise, I laughingly
said that any fool could do that, and flung some of the
selfsame water upon the fire, effectually putting it out.
I leave Mr. Pain, the water-gas man, to explain how
water poured upon a weak wood fire can be made
to serve the purpose of kindlings. I am told that the
“Witch” has frequently done this trick before, besides
other things in the eircles equally remarkable. She
gave warning yesterday morning that at a certain hour
and minute William’s spirit would leave his body,
go to the other world, and return in exactly thirty-two
minutes. At the time prescribed William, sure enough,
went into a trance, his body became as cold as marble,
the skin turned livid purple, his tongue black and
protruding, his eyes glazed, and he presented every
appearance of a corpse. But at the expiration of
the allotted half-hour he came to himself, and wept
bitterly at being recalled from what he described as a
scene of celestial joy. Of course this species' of cata¬
leptic vision is common enough, and I should not think
it worth mentioning but for the pyrotechnic experiment
of the ancient witch, and her appearance in propria
persona the same evening at the regular circle.
AN APPAIiLING GOBLIN.
If your readers have not already had their fill
of marvels, let me tell them a story that I had from
Mrs. Cleveland’s own mouth. Since I read the “ Castle
of Otranto ” and Lewis’s “ Monk,” I don’t recall
anything more uncanny. One evening the old lady was
sitting in the house alone, reading, when there came a
single loud rap on the front door. She went and
opened it, and saw a man standing there, dressed in dark
clothes and a white hat, and carrying a small black
box or trunk under his arm. Over his face he held a
napkin, behind which he addressed Mrs. Cleveland and
asked a night’s lodgings. /His mysterious behaviour
excited her suspicions that he was some escaped lunatic,
or perhaps a tramp who might be disposed to rob her,
so she refused his application, and he moved off toward
the Eddy house, with the whining remark that it was
too bad to turn a man away on such a winter night as
that to perish. Presently Horatio Eddy came running
over to say that a man had walked into their house,
scaring the family as they sat together in the living-
room by his abrupt appearance, and being refused
shelter, had passed on down the road. While the two
were conversing, there came another loud knock
at the door, and this time Horatio and Mrs. Cleveland
went to see who it was, the former carrying a kerosene
lamp. Upon opening, they saw the same person standing
there, and as he was repeating his application for
shelter, Horatio let the lamp-light shine full on his
face, now uncovered, which was hardly larger thanalarge
man’s fist. Being again refused admittance, he flung
the little trunk up into the air and caught it, and
walked off rapidly toward the Eddys’ again. Horatio
followed him up, saw him enter, go into the sitting-
room, put his hand on his sister’s shoulder, causing her
to scream, and then moving toward the back door,
suddenly sank through the floor! It was a materialised
spirit, and his appearance, attested by several witnesses,
shows what a diabolical atmosphere apparently sur¬
rounds the family and homestead.
THE HOUSE FULL OF THEM.
A person visiting here feels the whole air alive with
phantoms, and he can neither walk the road at night.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
Sept. 2,5', 1874.
nor retire to his room, -without feeling the possibility
that some horrid shape may leap from the ground before
him and address him in sepulchral tones. The story
goes that one night last winter, after every one had
retired, a band of spirits amused themselves by taking
the musical instruments from the circle-room and
serenading each sleeper in turn. A pleasant house,
truly, for a strange family to move into !
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
The gentleman of whom mention has been previously
made is Mr. E. Y. Pritchard, of Albany, a retired mer¬
chant, whose credibility must be well known in that
city at least. He came tb the Eddys’ in May, ex¬
pecting to remain only a few days, but his experiences
have been so satisfactory that he is still here. He first
saw the spirit of his brother’s son, who was killed in
the army, and afterward his mother, his sister’s hus¬
band, two of her sons, and one son-in-law, and his
brother’s son. He has seen four or five female spirits
carrying children in their arms, and, setting them on
the floor, lead them about by the hand. He has seen
the children in some cases clasp their arms about their
mothers’ necks. Once an Indian woman brought in
her papoose, swaddled in the Indian fashion, and he
heard it cry. An Indian girl brought in a robin perched
on her finger, which hopped and chirped as naturally
as life.
(Readers of history will recollect that one of the
principal evidences of witchcraft alleged against poor
Mrs. Nourse, and others of the Salem vietims, was the
declaration of Tituba, Abigail Williams, Ann Putnam,
and other “ afflicted children,” that the prisoners had
birds perched upon their fingers or sitting on their
shoulders, and whispering in their ears. In fact, the
similarity between the occult occurrences of 1694 and
those of our own time is very remarkable and sug¬
gestive.)
Mr. Pritchard saw a spirit walk to the front of the
platform and hold her babe over the railing toward
the audience, so that they could see it kick its little
legs, move its arms, and hear it crow. Again, on
another evening three little girls, apparently four, six,
and eight years of age respectively, stood side by side
in the door of the cabinet, and the eldest calling to her
mother in the audience, spoke her own name, “ Minnie.”
No William Eddy in this instance surely. Mr. Pritchard
has heard the spectres speak in all voices, from the
faintest whisper to a full natural voice. As regards
costumes, he has seen the forms clothed in what ap¬
peared to be silk, cotton, merino, and tarlatan, soldiers
in uniform, one navy captain in full uniform and wear¬
ing his side arms, women in plain robes and richly
embroidered, Indian warriors in a great variety of cos¬
tumes, some barefoot and others shod in mocassins.
Once a pipe was lighted and handed to Honto, who
walked about smoking it, and at each whiff her bronze
face was illuminated so that every lineament was shewn.
She came and smoked in his very face to give him a
perfect view of her own.
JUDGE BACON RECOGNISES EIVE SPIRIT RELATIVES.
Out of the mass of testimony I have noted in my
memorandum I will only quote in addition what Mr.
Bacon says, as this, added tb what has preceded, should
suffice to at least clear William Eddy from the suspicion
of producing the phantom shapes by changes of voice
and dress. John Bacon, of St. Johnsbury, Yt., is an
associate justice of the county court of Caledonia
county. He came here August 22 to see the pheno¬
mena. The first evening he saw the spirit of his
father, who died forty-eight years ago. Recognised
him by his shape. The form was dressed in dark
clothes, with a standing shirt collar and white shirt.
He was bareheaded. Standing erect, he towered to the
height of six feet one inch, and called his son by his
Christian name, speaking in his familiar tones. His
breathing was distinctly perceived in the act of speak¬
ing. Besides him the judge has seen one sister, fifty-
three years of age at the time of her decease, and
another of only three years; his wife’s father and
mother (the latter wore a light dress and a white cap;
she is a very short woman, not above five feet in
height); and finally his own son, whose death has else¬
where been alluded to. By actual count kept he has
seen sixty-six different spirits to date.
The reader will not fail to perceive that beside the
doings at this Yermont house of wonders, the narrative
of “ Katie King,” about which two hemispheres have
been set agog, appears quite tame and uninteresting.
Here, in this out-of-the-way nook in the Green Moun¬
tains, in the house of plain farmers, unprovided with
machinery, chemical or (other apparatus, or costumes,
not less than two entire regiments of shadowy forms
have come back from the Yalley of the Shadow of
Death to strut their brief while before the view of
mortals, and hundreds of families admit having received
tokens of the departed. After this the daimon of
Socrates, the imp of Wesley, the spectral visitors of the
bookseller Nicolai, the banshees which follow certain
houses, the prank-playing poltergeists of Germany,
seem worthy of more respectful attention than we have
been willing hitherto to accord them. Who shall now
pronounce impossible of realisation the prophecy said
to have been made through raps long since, that in
time the spirits will materialise themselves so as to be
able to address audiences from the public rostrum, as
though they had never tasted death ? With “ Katie
King” standing for her photograph, and the Chittenden
ghost walking the highway with his box under his arm,
it does seem as if the gap remaining is not much too
wide to be spanned in our day.
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS ON MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
Mr. Olcott closes his account by narrating how he
consulted Andrew Jackson Davis, the celebrated clair¬
voyant, on the subject of materialised spirits.. He
says:—
Before leaving town to come on this journey, I thought it
well to ascertain the views of Andrew J. Davis, the Head
Centre of modern Spiritualism, as to these objective pheno¬
mena. I found that gentleman in his cosy hook store, at 24,
East Fourth-street, and a long conversation ensued, in the
course of which he expressed himself substantially as follows:
—So far as he, Mr. Davis, is personally concerned, he takes
no more interest in these physical manifestations than a bene¬
volent desire that his fellow-men should be convinced of the
fact of a future state. He regards them all, including these
“ materialisations,” as feats of jugglery by expert spirits,
numbers of whom are deeply versed in chemistry and the
other natural sciences. The phenomena he regards as neces¬
sary to convince nine-tenths of the world’s people that “ death
does not kill a man,” and he finds no fault with the Apostle
Thomas for wanting to see and feel the wounds on Christ’s
body before he would believe Him arisen from the dead. He
considers “Katie King” and the Eddy ghosts as of no im¬
portance as individual identifications, but simply as establish¬
ing the general doctrine of immortality. Whoever these
shapes may be they are a hard nut for the Positivists to
crack. They insist upon the production of a sensuous de¬
monstration of the doctrine of immortality, and here they
have it. The world of stars was once further from our com-
152
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 25, 1874.
prehension than the world oi spirits is now, and before long
the laws of the latter will be equally well understood as those
of the former. He says that there is always great necessity
for caution in believing what one sees and hears in spiritual
manifestations. Each phenomenon should be carefully and
boldly scrutinised. There are impostors among mediums and
among the spirits controlling them. Most of the former are
found among the fortune-telling class, who use the vocabulary
of Spiritualists to entrap the unwary. He divides mediums
into three classes: 1, the fortune-tellers; 2, the medical class;
and 3, the materialisers. The medical ones are almost in¬
variably controlled by Indian medicine-men, who show a
strange pertinacity in haunting the earth. They are, as a rule,
much more expert in diagnosing diseases than in prescribing
remedies. The materialisers are honest in prescribing condi¬
tions in forming their circles, such as the choice of persons to
sit, the places they should occupy, and the regulation of light
and heat in the chamber. Spirit forms can no more be pro¬
duced without observance of conditions than the shadow of a
human being can be fixed on the photographic plate without
an apparatus to collect and regulate the actinic rays and a
developing-room to bring out the image. In both instances
the effect is a chemical one, not mechanical. Spirit forms
are produced by collecting subtle atoms from the atmosphere
and combining them into the desired shape by the aid of
forces, the nature of which is at present undiscovered by our
scientific men.
In reply to my question how he could account for the
impartation of life to these temporary organisms, so that the
heart can be felt to beat and the other physical operations be
carried on, he said he had no explanation to offer, and left the
riddle for the disciples of Comte and Tyndall to solve. Yarley,
the English electrician, wrote him recently to ask where was
the connecting link between matter and spirit. He replied
that it was just upon the plane of these materialisations,
where spirit descended toward matter, and matter ascended
toward spirit, the point of contact would be found. There
are: — 1, solids; 2, fluids ; 3, atmospheres; 4, ethers;
5. essences (the imponderables distilled out of the whole uni¬
verse of matter). Matter is at its climax of progress there.
Then takes place the alliance of spirit, and at this sensitive
place occur all these apparitions. The spirit lifts matter up to
this point, and by reducing its temperature and motion he
evolves the apparition. The reversal of this action produces
the vanishing of the shape.
The conversation thus meagrely reported occurred some
time before the account of Professor Tyndall’s Belfast address
before the British Association wa's received in this country;
and being read in connection with that, it possesses a definite
value, as suggesting a possible solution of the enigma pro¬
pounded by that eminent man, of “ the issue of consciousness
from the clash of atoms.” One of these Chittenden ghosts
told me that there are three qualities of electricity, of which
our present scientific tests take cognisance of only the coarsest.
Let us hope that by the time we catch the other two, we may
be far on our road toward an explanation of the marvels that
I have herein imperfectly described. Henev S. Olcott.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS*
NO. XV.
[On reading over consecutively this series of communi¬
cations which I had received, I was more than ever struck
by their beauty, both of form and matter. There was much
in them with which I sympathised ; but at the same time
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they'gave from theirjwritings]were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
1 could not get rid of the idea that the faith of Christen¬
dom was practically upset by their issue. I believed that,
however it might be disguised, such would be their outcome
in the end. No man, I reasoned, could accept such teach¬
ing, in its spirit as well as in its letter, without being led
to throw aside very much that the Christian world had
agreed to receive as de fide. The central dogmas seemed
especially attacked: and it was this that startled me.
A very extended acquaintance with the writings of theo¬
logians, Greek, Roman, Anglican, and Protestant (espe¬
cially those of the modern German school of thought) had
prepared me to make a little divergence of opinion on
minor matters. 1 knew that such divergences were in¬
separable from the subject. I also knew that individual
opinion on abstruse mysteries of revelation is of little
worth. I should have even been prepared for startling
statements on such matters. But here was a very different
matter. The points impugned seemed to me to be of the
very essence of the Christian religion. To “ spiritualise f
or, as I preferred to call it, to explain away these, seemed
to me absolutely fatal to my belief in any revelation what¬
soever. After long and patient thought, I could come to
no other conclusion. And I shrank from accepting such
momentous issues on the ipse dixit of an intelligence of
whom I knew, and could know, so little. I felt that I
must have more time for thought: and that I, at any rate,
was not ripe for the acceptance of a creed, however beauti¬
ful, which was mot better attested and less iconoclastic.
These objections I stated. In answer it was written:—]
You have said wisely. Time is requisite that you
may ponder deeply that which is indeed of vital import.
We leave you to think over what we have advanced
with a full conviction that you will, in time, assimilate
the teaching, and appreciate its importance. Should
you desire enlightenment from us on any points, it shall
be given : but we will not force upon you other com¬
munications until time has done for you what you
require. Let patience and earnest prayerfulness have
full sway.
Ye know not in your cold earth atmosphere, so chilling,
so repellent to spirit life, ho w the magnetic rapport between
your spirit and the guides who wait to bear its peti¬
tion upwards is fostered by frequent prayer. It is as
though the bond were tightened by frequent use; as
though the intimacy ripened by mutual association.
Ye would pray more did ye know how rich a spiritual
blessing prayer brings. Your learned sages have
discussed much of the value of prayer, and have
wandered in a maze of opinion, befogged and ignorant
of the real issue. They do not know—how should they?
of the angel messengers who hover round ready to help
the spirit that cries to its God. They know not of the
existence of such, for they cannot test their presence
by human science in its present state; and so, with
crude effort, they would reduce the results of prayer
to line and measure. They try to gauge its results,
and to estimate its effect by the compilation of statistics.
And still they find themselves in difficulty, for though
they grasp the shell, the spirit eludes their ken. Such
results are not to be so measured, for they are imper¬
ceptible by man’s science. They are spiritual, varying
in various cases: different as are the agencies at work.
Frequently it is the unspoken petition which is not
granted that is the cause of richest blessing to the
praying soul. The very cry of the burdened spirit shot
forth into the void,—a cry wrung out by bitter sorrow—
is an unknown relief. The spirit is lightened, though
i the prayer is not granted in the terms of its petition.
Sept. 25, 1874.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
153
Ye know not why: but could ye see, as we see, the
guardians labouring 'to pour into the sorrow-laden
soul the balm of sympathy and consolation, ye would
know whence comes that strange peace which steals
over the spirit, and assures it of a sympathising and
consoling God. The prayer has done its work, for
it has drawn down an angel friend: and the bursting
heart, crushed with its load of care and sorrow, is
comforted by angel sympathy.
This, the magnetic sympathy which we can shed
around those with whom we are in close communion, is
one of the blessed effects which can be wrought by the
cry of a human soul reaching upward to, its God. And
under no other conditions can the full blessedness
of spirit intercourse be realised. It is the spirit that is
most spiritualised that alone can enter into the secret
chambers where the angels dwell. It is to the soul that
lives in frequent communion with us that we are best
able to come nigh. This, friend, is invariable: another
part of that unchangeable law which governs all our
intercourse with your world. To the spiritual soul
come, in richest measure, spiritual gifts.
Nor is it always the answer which man in his
ignorance expects, that is the truest response to his
petition. Many times to grant his request would be to
do him grievous harm. He has asked ignorantly,
petulantly, foolishly: and his prayer is unheeded in its
request: but it has availed to place his spirit in
communion with an intelligence which is waiting an
opportunity of approach, and which can minister to
him strength and consolation in his necessity.
’Twere well if men would more strive to live a life of
prayer. Not the morbid life of devotion falsely so-
called, which consists in neglecting duty and in spending
the precious hours of the probation life in morbid self¬
anatomy : in developing unhealthy self-scrutiny: in
idle dreamy contemplation, or in forced and unreal
supplication. The life of prayer is far other, as
we advise it. Prayer to be real must be the heart-
cry, spontaneous and impulsive, to friends who hover
near. The fancy of a prayer to the ear of an ever-'
present God who is willing to alter unalterable laws in
response to a capricious request, has done much to
discredit the idea of prayer altogether. Believe it not!
Prayer—the spontaneous cry of the soul to its God
through the friends who, it knows, are near, and are
ever ready to catch up the unuttered petition and bear
it upwards and ever upwards till it reach a power that
can respond—this is no matter of formal preparation.
It consists not in any act of outward show. It is not
necessarily syllabled in utterance: far less is it tram¬
melled by conventional form, or bound up in stereotyped
phraseology. True prayer is the ready voice of spirit
communing with spirit: the cry of the soul to invisible
friends with whom it is used to speak: the flashing along
the magnetic line a message of request which brings, swift
as thought, its ready answer back. It is the placing of
a suffering soul in union with a ministering spirit who
can soothe and heal. It needs no words, no attitude, no
form. It is truest when these are absent, or at least
unstudied. It needs but a recognition of a near
guardian, and an impulse to communion. To this end
it must be habitual: else, like the limb long disused
the impulse is paralysed. Hence, it is those of you who
live most in the spirit who penetrate deepest into the
hidden mysteries. "We can come nearest to them. We
can touch hidden chords in their nature which vibrate
only to our touch, and are never stirred by your
world's influences. ’Tis they who reach highest in
their earth-life, for they have learned already to com¬
mune with the spheres, and are fed with spiritual food.
For them are opened mysteries closed to more material
natures : and their perpetual prayer has wrought for
them this at least, that they live above the sufferings
and sorrows from which it cannot exempt them, seeing
that such are necessary to their development.
Alas ! alas! we speak of that which is little known.
Were this grand truth better realised, man would live
in the atmosphere of the pure and elevated spirits. His
spiritual attitude would drive from him the base and
baleful influences which too often beset those who pry
unbidden into mysteries that are too high for them, and
which, alas ! beset and annoy even the best at times.
If it prevailed not to obtain exemption it would pro¬
vide protection, and do more to strengthen us than all
else that man could do. It would avail more to sanctify
the acts, to purify the motives, and to keep alive the
reality of spirit communion than anything which we
know of.
Pray then ; but see that you pray not with formality,
heartlessly, and with unreal supplication. Commune
with us in communion of the spirit. Keep a single
eye to the issues of such communion as respect your
own spirit. The rest will follow in due course. Leave
abstruse and perplexing questions of man’s theological
controversy, and keep close to the central truths which
so intimately affect the well-being of your spirit. . The
vain bewilderments which man has cast around the
simplicity of truth are manifold. Nor is it for you to
disentangle them, nor to decide what is or is not
essential in that which has hitherto been revealed.
You will learn hereafter to view much that you now
regard as vitally essential truth, rather as a passing
phase of teaching which was necessary for those to
whom it was given. It is human weakness that impels
you to rush to the end. You must tarry, friend, tarry
long yet in the early searchings before you reach the
goal. You have much to unlearn before you can pene¬
trate all mysteries.
We have more to say to you on this. But for the
present enough has been written. May the Supreme
keep us and you, and enable us so to lead -and guide
you that in the end truth may shine on your darkened
soul, and peace may dwell within your spirit.
  + I. S. D.
Next Sunday, Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan will address a
farewell meeting to her, of the Spiritualists of Yorkshire, at
Halifax.
The Countess of Caithness and Count de Medina Pomar
will visit Italy for the winter; they are now at Barrogill
Castle, in the north of Scotland.
Spibituausm ix Gebmahv.—A Wiesbaden correspondent
says:—“Here, in this country, I am sorry to say that Spirit¬
ualism is in no favour. But as soon as our scientific men in
England are able to convince themselves that the phenomena
which some of them recognise as real, are emanations from
spiritual intelligences belonging to a supra-mundane sphere,
and make their convictions public, the scientific men in this
country will be compelled to study the subject. And then the
almost universal materialism which prevails here among the
most intelligent people, will not fail to give way. The Germans
seem to me to be great respecters of authority. If a crowd
begins to collect in the street, the appearance of a single
policeman causes its dispersion—not because they are afraid of
him, but because they recognise the lawful authority of this
functionary. And so, when you speak to them about Spirit¬
ualism, they will not contest the matter with you, as a doubt¬
ing or disbelieving Englishman will do, but, very quietly, they
tell you: ‘ Our scientific men have long since examined the
matter, and have decided that there is nothing in it.’ ”
154 THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 25, 1874.
COUNCIL MEETING OF THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
On the evening of September 14th, a Council meeting of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, was held at
Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-street, London, under the presidency
of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory. There was a good attendance.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed,
after which letters were read from Miss Anna Blackwell, Mr.
J. Martheze, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mrs. Osborn, Mr. J. J.
Morse, Mr. Hoskins, Mr. Binney, and Mr. T. Blyton.
Seven new ordinary members were then elected, and M.
Buguet was elected an honorary member. The resignation of
Mr. 0. M. Lewis was accepted, and it was resolved to invite
Mr. Martin R. Smith to become Honorary Treasurer, in place
of Mr. Daw, who resigned office in consequence of ill-health.
All the members of the Association had been consulted by
circular as to alterations of constitution and rules, and on ex¬
amination of the voting papers, it was found that eighty-six
were in favour of the changes recommended by the Council,
and ten against them ; the remainder of the members did not
vote. The “Principles and Purposes” once drawn up were
consequently abolished, and in place thereof the objects of the
National Association are stated in Rule II. as follows :—
II. The Association is formed to unite Spiritualists of every variety of
opinion, for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students and enquirers in
their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of systematic in¬
vestigation into the facts and phenomena called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated
to exercise upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended
to include Spiritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Pro¬
vincial Societies or not, and all enquirers into Psychological and kindred
phenomena.
The objects of the Association will be carried out by establishing a Cen¬
tral Institution, comprising a Hall, and Lecture, Seance, and Beading
Booms; by correspondence; by printing and distributing publications; by
the formation of a Library of Works on Spiritualism and kindred topics;
to keep a register of mediums with the view of affording facilities for
investigation by Public Meetings and Lectures; by offering a medium of
communication between Local and Provincial Societies; by promoting the
establishment and alliance of such Societies (which shall, notwithstanding,
maintain their own separate independent government and action); and by
taking such other steps as may be incidental or conducive to the attain¬
ment of the above objects.
It was resolved to substitute the word “ alliance ” for
“ affiliation ” wherever the latter occurs in all paragraphs in
the prospectus relating to local societies of Spiritualists.
Mr. E. D. Rogers remarked that some of the members of the
local societies were calculating what those societies could
gain by alliance with the National Association. That was not
the right mode of viewing it; they should consider rather that
the National Association was doing good and efficient work
for Spiritualism, consequently asked their good wishes and
their practical support.
The secretaries were instructed to have five hundred copies
of the corrected prospectus printed, and to issue them to each
member, the public press, and others.
Ways and means were then considered, and the cash state¬
ment showed a balance in hand of £59 7s.
In reference to Mr. J. J. Morse’s farewell Sunday address,
under the auspices of the Association, it was resolved unani¬
mously, “ That the thanks of the Council are hereby tendered
to Mr. George King, for the very able and successful manner in
which he carried out the arrangements for Mr. Morse’s fare¬
well address.”
Mr. Harper’s name was then added to the Committee for
seeking for suitable permanent offices for the National
Association.
The name of Mr. Keningale Cook, B.A., was added to the
Spiritualists’ Register Committee.
It was then resolved to contribute £2 2s. to the Defence
Fund of the late action for assault, against certain members of
the Newcastle Society of Spiritualists. £1 Is. was contributed
towards the expenses of the Sunday lectures, recently carried
on by some of the members of the Marylebone Society, and
£1 Is. was contributed towards the expenses of Mr. Cogman’s
labours in the East End of London.
The secretaries were instructed to issue a circular, inviting
the co-operation of the members of the Association to support
Mr. Morse’s farewell soiree on the 8th October next.
The consideration of the following matters was deferred:—
Finance Committee’s Report; Bye Laws Committee’s Report;
Conference Committee’s Report; Lunacy Laws’ notice; Mr.
Noyes’ paper on Purposes notice; Correspondence Committee’s
Report; Public Circles notice.
The proceedings then closed.
A CLERGYMAN RECOGNISES SPIRIT RELATIVES
AT A SEANCE.
Db. Gully has favoured us with the following letter for
publication, which he has just received from the well-known
American author, Mr. Epes Sargent:—
My Dear Dr. Gully,—Your very interesting letter in regard
to the manifestations through Miss Cook, was duly received,
and I have already made such public use of a portion of it as
I think you will approve, judging from the communications
under your name in the London Spiritualist. It is a timely
word spoken in behalf of a great but struggling truth. The
phenomena themselves are not more wonderful to me than
the general incredulity in the face of so much explicit and
seemingly irresistible testimony. My own views as to the
bearing of these stupendous facts upon the philosophies and
religions of the day, coincide perfectly with your own.
The day before yesterday I had an interview with a gentleman
who, with his wife, has been to Moravia, N. Y., to see the
phenomena through Mrs. Andrews. He is a Mr. Rufus S.
Pope, a clergyman from the little town of Hyannis, Massa¬
chusetts. Some of his parishioners had been to see the phe¬
nomena, and came back with the assertion that they had seen
and talked with their departed friends. Mr. Pope did not
believe them. He rejected Spiritualism wholly. One of his
parishioners asked, “ If we will raise the money for your ex¬
penses, will you go to Moravia, see things for yourselves, and
give us a faithful report in public of your experiences when
you come back?” Mr. Pope consented, and in a little while
the parishioner came back with a hundred dollars which he
had collected. The good clergyman and his wife went to
Moravia. He satisfied himself there was no fraud. He and
his wife saw and heard his own mother, and his two sons,
Milton and Rufus. The last two came not merely once, but
every night for a week. The identification was perfect. Said
Mr. Pope to me, “ I saw them as distinctly as I see you now
face to face. It was a reality. There was no possibility of
delusion or trick.”
In Philadelphia, a spirit-form calling itself “ Katie,” while
the two mediums sit with the audience, comes out of an
empty cabinet, then dissolves and disappears before your
sight, then reconcretes the materialised form, first beginning
as a luminous speck, till it comes forth a beautiful young lady
gracefully clad, and moves about and converses with the
spectators present.
I am preparing an account of these and the London phe¬
nomena, under the title of “ The Proof Palpable of Im¬
mortality.” I hope to send you a copy ere long. The proofs
of the reality of these phenomena are accumulating so fast, that
science cannot ignore them much- longer. Should you have
the leisure and the disposition, I shall be very glad to hear
from you again.—With sincere regard, Epes Sargent.
Dr. J. M. Gully, Balham, S.W. Box 3556, Boston, U.S.A.
Mb. Maetin R. Smith has accepted the office of Honorary
Treasurer to the National Association of Spiritualists.
Strange Hallucination.—The Times of Friday week
contains the following paragraph, in the letter from its corre¬
spondent at Paris:—“ The Droit relates that a man has just
died in the Bicetre Asylum whose lunacy had a very singular
origin. His name was Justin, and he exhibited wax-work
figures at Montrouge, his gallery consisting of contemporary
celebrities and great criminals. On a pedestal in the centre
was the figure of a young girl remarkable for her graceful
figure and perfect features, her hair falling in long curls over
her naked shoulders. Justin had named her Eliza, and was
so struck by her beauty that he passed hours in contemplating
her. She seemed to him to speak, and her blue eyes, with
their long eyelashes, seemed to respond to his passion. Under
the influence of this illusion he neglected his business, and for
want of a showman to puff it people no longer visited the
gallery. Poverty succeeded easy circumstances ; the modern
Pygmalion could not seperate himself from Eliza. His wife
was obliged to sleep on a bare mattress, and when she remon¬
strated he ill-treated her. Irritated at the unjust harshness,
she one day destroyed the wax figure. Justin was furious on
seeing the fragments, and seizing a broomstick he struck his
wife and would have killed her had not her cries drawn the
neighbours to her assistance. Justin, who had lost his reason,
had to be secured, and was an inmate of Bicetre for five
years, living up to the last under the charia of Eliza, whose
image seemed always before him,”
Sept. 25, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
IP I SHOULD DIE TO-NIGHT.
If I should die to-night,
My friends would look upon my quiet face
Before they laid it in its resting place,
And deem that death had left it almost fair;
And, laying snow-white flowers against my hair.
Would smooth it down with tearful tenderness,
And fold my hands with lingering caress.
Poor hands, so empty and so cold to-night!
If I should'die to-night,
My friends would call to mind, with loving thought,
Some kindly deed the icy hand had wrought,
Some gentle word the frozen lips had said;
Errands on which the willing feet had sped:
The memory of my selfishness and pride,
My hasty words would all he put aside.
And so I should he loved and mourned to-night.
If I should die to-night,
Even hearts estranged would turn once more to me,
Recalling other days remorsefully ;
The eyes that chill me with averted glance
Would look upon me as of yore, perchance,
And soften in the old familiar way.
For who could war with dumb, unconscious clay ?
So I might rest, forgiven of all, to-night,
Oh, friends, I pray to-night,
Keep not your kisses for my dead, cold brow.
The way is lonely, let me feel them now.
Think gently of me; I am travel worn:
My faltering feet are pierced with many a thorn,
Forgive, oh, hearts estranged, forgive I plead
When dreamless rest is mine I shall not need
The tenderness for which I long to-night.
From “ Common-Sense,” San Francisco.
(Eorreapontime.
\_Oreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
A YERY PECULIAR DREAM.
Sir,—What are dreams? Have they sometimes decided
marks of Spiritual origin, or are they only traceable to a
disturbed stomach ?
As a rule, you have found me a diligent, careful investigator
of facts only, placing them before your readers simply as
additional examples to complete the scale for further theo¬
retical deductions. Consequently, not to interfere with im¬
partiality in examining phenomena, I avoided studying
theories beyond the boundary of my practical experience, and
whenever my eyes caught some lines headed, “ A Dream,” for
instance, I rejected the subject at once.
In this case I may be influenced from the opposite side, as
my dreams are more or less of the “ nightmare” type. The
other night, however (Sept. 12 to 13), I was visited with such
a wonderful vision, that it set me a-thinking. I heard a
voice: “ Come along! ” and felt lifted out of my bed and
transported far away into another room, where I found a gen¬
tleman in the act of dressing. I was not noticed, for I was
quite invisible. With a peculiar twist, he managed to conceal
his enormous long ears, protruding at least six inches over the
head, behind his cravat, and, by brushing over the long hair,
they were put out of view. Then he took some time to adjust
the trousers, apparently on account of a little unsightly pro¬
longation of the backbone, too. Now came breakfast, and I
found on the tray ham and eggs, and Tyndall’s address at
Belfast. He read it while taking his coflee, and paced the
room in great agitation, took a pen to write a dashing article
against Spiritualism, and arrived at the explanation how
mediums did their tricks. I then saw only the formation of
“ W ”—when suddenly the ears, rather stiff, slipped out with
a jerk (he stooping down too much), and stood erect in
majestic grandeur. Then I awoke ! It was three o’clock in
the morning. Was I really transported ? If so, it must have
been as far as America, for the scene happened in broad
daylight. It puzzled me very much at the time, but now
I am able to reduce every feature of it to most simple
and natural causes, and to show how careful we have to be
not to assign phenomena to spiritual influence while we
can explain them just as well otherwise. The reading of
Shakspeare’s Midsummer Night's Dream the day before may
well account for the reappearance of the couple of long ears;
and the highly impressive article against Spiritualism in the
Daily Telegraph (12th inst.) may have influenced the other
points. The disclosure of the concealed whalebone, with
which the tricks might be done, started many suggestions—as,
for instance, the floating of heavy tables and musical boxes.
Here the whalebone would be too weak and flexible, but they
might substitute a kind of crane with chain and hook (like
those used in docks). How clever the mediums must be to
catch thus, in total darkness, the things to be lifted ; fancy,
the hook to land on the nose of a sitter, and hoisting to com¬
mence ! These reflections evidently gave birth to the skilful
concealment of the long ears. Occasionally pondering over
Darwin’s theory furnishes the key for abnormal formations, for
we And in the process of development disturbances the same
as in the orbits of celestial bodies. I make these exceptions
responsible for the trouble and difficulty in adjusting the
trousers. Lastly, the introduction of Tyndall’s address needs
hardly any explanation. Whose mind would not be livelily
engaged with this interesting and important matter ? But in
my dream a most trivial incident produced even this point
—namely, shortly before the vision, I awoke by a queer noise
like scratching, as if a spirit wanted to communicate; but it
was a piece of note-paper which had dropped on my pillow,
and my whiskers rubbed against it, thereby recalling the
remarkable seance, where the professor produced similar effects
on a glass tumbler with his whiskers. C. Beihers.
2, Ducie Avenue, Manchester, Sept. 14th, 1874.
COUNT POMAR ON REINCARNATION.
Sir,—I have just read a letter in The Spiritualist oi Sept.
11th, in which the writer, Mr. Garbett, calls Miss Blackwell,
the only English advocate of reincarnation. I suppose he
has never heard of my book The Honeymoon, a second edition
of which is in the press, or he would not be so inaccurate in
his statements.
I beg also to remind you that my mother, the Countess of
Caithness, is a most decided believer in the views advocated
by the late Allan Kardec, whose works she is about publishing
in English, translated by several English friends, who also
believe in this great and important doctrine.
In my forthcoming work, Through the Ages, which I hope
to publish early in the ensuing year, your correspondent will
And the doctrine holding a most prominent place.
Your correspondent is no doubt aware that the same doc¬
trine is widely taught in the United States, and that it is
advocated by the oldest and most important Spiritualistic
journal, The Banner of Light, whose editor writes, that “ if it
were not for the doctrine of reincarnation he should not be
a Spiritualist ”—this, to say nothing of hundreds of other
papers, both in South America and the Continent.
Barrogill Castle, Caithness, Medina Pomar.
Sept. 15th, 1874.
SPIRITUALISM AT LLANELLY.
Sir,—The following is an account of a remarkable seance at
Llanelly, Carmarthenshire, which took place on the 16th inst.
at the house of Mr. Young, 6, Stepney-street, in his drawing¬
room, in the presence of Mr. Caney (artist), Swansea, Mr. and
Mrs. Young, Mrs. Hudson, and Miss Croby from Swansea, with
several other friends. Mr. Herne, of London, was the medium.
We all sat round the table hitching hands and those of the
medium. Musical instruments were played, including bells and
a tambourine. A tape was drawn out of my hands ; some of
the instruments floated in the air above our heads. Many of
us were patted on the head and elsewhere by the spirits. A
cushion was taken from the sofa and placed upon the table,
and left lying across my hands. The hand of a child touched
my head, and patted the mouth of another gentleman. Direct
spirit voices spoke to me (Capt. Hudson), mentioning my
name. There were clear knocks upon the table, and altogether
it was a very striking seance.
There was no materialisation that evening; the raps sig¬
nalled that there would be none, owing to some of the con¬
ditions not having been attended to. One young lady left the
circle; some of the others changed places.
16, St. Mary-street, Swansea, H. Hudson.
Sept. 18th, 1874.
AN EXPLANATION.
Sir,—Will you allow me, in justice to myself, to correct an
error which appeared in Mr. Kilburn’s letter published in your
last issue. Mr. Kilburn says that, in the year 1868, he visited
London for the purpose of conferring with Mr. Burns; that
he was a guest at my house, that I acted the part of mutual
friend, and that he is grieved to And that I have been induced
to assert that the matter was a public and not a private one.
156
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 25, 1874.
I beg to state that Mr. Kilburn is in error in every particular.
I never in my life acted as mutual friend between him and
Mr. Burns in any matter whatever, nor did he ever meet Mr.
Burns at my house, as seems to be implied, if not expressly
stated. Indeed, in the year mentioned—1868—I did not even
know Mr. Kilburn, and had not the pleasure of his acquaint¬
ance (as I find by looking over my diary) till the August, 1869,
when I met him at Bishop Auckland. It was then that Mr.
Kilburn freely and unreservedly stated to me and my wife,
more than once, of his transaction with Mr. Burns, in a way
which conveyed the impression to us that it was already an
accomplished fact, and no secret whatever.
A copy of this letter has been sent to the Medium.
Holder’s-hUl, Hendon, N.W., Sept. 21. T. Evebitt.
ITR. MORSE’S SOIREE.
Sib,—Having been fortunate enough to secure the co-opera¬
tion of Mr. Everitt, who has kindly consented to occupy the
chair upon the occasion of Mr. J. J. Morse’s farewell benefit
soiree, to be hgld at the Co-operative Institute (late Princess’s
Concert Boom), 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street, London, on
Thursday, October 8th, 1874. I venture to request your
kindly co-operation to aid its purposes to the extent of your
interest and sympathy. It is desired to make the above soiree as
much a pecuniary success as possible, for which object, in
addition to the sale of tickets, subscriptions towards the
expenses are respectfully solicited and will be duly
acknowledged. Tickets may be had at the offices of all the
spiritual periodicals; of Mr. Cogman, 15, St. Peter’s-road,
Mile-end, E.; and of myself,
A. F. Maltby, Honorary Secretary.
8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road,
Hammersmith, W.
Dr. Gully is now in Paris.
Mr. Morse m the North.—A series of three farewell
meetings was held on the evenings of Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday, last week, under the auspices of the Glasgow Spirit¬
ualists, on the occasion of Mr. J. J. Morse delivering his last
trance lectures in the above city, prior to his leaving for
America. On the first evening upwards of six hundred
persons assembled in the Trades’ Hall, and on the second full
audiences were present in the Spiritualist Hall, 164, Trongate.
This week he has been busy in Newcastle; he delivered trance
lectures at the Old Freemasons’ Hall there on Sunday and
Monday, and on Tuesday evening lectured at Byker New Hall,
Byker. The Newcastle Spiritualists gave him a farewell soiree
last Wednesday.
Spiritualism in Manchester.—Mr. Eeimers writes
that the general tone of public opinion in Manchester, in
relation to the subject of Spiritualism, is perceptibly im¬
proving. He forwards also a report of an excellent sermon on
Professor Tyndall’s address, by the Bev. S. A. Steinthal,
delivered in Cross-street Unitarian Chapel. In the course of
the sermon Mr. Steinthal said, that as far as he was able to
understand the meaning of his address, Professor Tyndall did
not mean that the inert mass of inorganised substance was
self-originated, or was capable of originating the phenomena
which science investigated. He guarded himself so repeatedly
against any such misunderstanding, that anyone who ascribed
such a theory to him seemed wilfully to misrepresent him. In
the very sentence just quoted he spoke of the Creator, and the
whole tendency of his teaching seemed to be that matter was
but the medium through which the manifestation of force was
made ; and force he looked upon with that reverent awe which
already was displayed by the Temanite sage who declared that
“ we cannot by searching find out God, or find out the
Almighty to perfection.” To him, also, force was confessedly
inscrutable. If Mr. Tyndall were to have devoted as much
painful thought to the investigation of spiritual phenomena as
he had done to material ones he (Mr. Steinthal) could not help
thinking that his clear intellect would have led him to perceive
that it was impossible to rest satisfied with the assertion of
the existence of force—call it cosmical life or what they
pleased—without proceeding to the further conclusion that
there was, at least, but one active force in everything, alone
productive of the infinite variety of phenomena which we per¬
ceived. All the varied phenomena of this vast universe at last
pointed to the existence, underlying everything, of a will,
infinite in power, and wisdom, and love; and by whatever
name we were pleased to call this will, it was, in fact, the
Deity to whom we were led as the only adequate cause of the
effects which we studied.
Passed to Spirit Life.—On the 10th of this month,
Mrs. Cornelius Yarley, mother of Mr. C. F. Yarley, the elec¬
trician, passed to the higher life, aged seventy-six years. Her
body was interred in Woking cemetery. It is only about a
year, ago that we had to record the departure of Mr. Yarley’s
father, who was so well known, and had done such useful
work in the scientific world.
Misrepresentations.—There is no truth in the follow¬
ing and other paragraphs printed in an editorial article in
The Medium last week:—“Interview public characters'as
Mrs. Tappan was recently interviewed at Darlington, and re¬
quest that their announcements shall only appear in his
paper.” When Mrs. Tappan began her tour in the provinces,
she kindly commenced unsolicited to send us her announce¬
ments, and they were given to the printers for publication,
but even then could not be got in, this journal being so over¬
crowded. Further, we have about a dozen shorthand reports
of her lectures, taken for publication in this journal, but after¬
wards room could not be found for them. Mrs. Tappan is
doing good and useful work very efficiently, and some apology
may have been made to her at Darlington for not getting in
the notices, with a promise to do better in future by making
use of advertising space, but we have no recollection of any¬
thing of the kind, and are quite incapable of the meanness of
ever asking for any advantage over our neighbours.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A. Jot.—You say it has not been clearly explained that it was not fair com¬
petition. He has published that during the past five years he obtained
about £500 a year by asking Spiritualists for money, and £1,000 about
two years ago, by running into debt; total under £1,000 a year, say
£4,000 in all. This was for his bookselling and newspaper business.
The Liverpool Psychological Society, and others, who have sold his
books and pamphlets in large quantities for years, can testify that in
nearly every case they had to pay full trade price for them, so the money
was- not employed to cheapen that kind of literature. It was not em¬
ployed to clear losses over Sunday and other lectures; he published
clear accounts of those separately, and got the public to payoff the losses;
if he had paid them all himself, it would only have accounted for about
£100 a year. The only other thing was the Medium newspaper, which
he started several months after The Spiritualist came out, when he went
on underselling it, shifting the enormous expense of so doing upon the
back of the public. We said nothing about it for years, for the sake of
peace, although the capital he was using was for the most part obtained
from our personal friends and the warmest supporters of this journal,
who, in subscribing to an indefinite something which he called the
“ Spiritual Institution,” did not know what was the real state of the case,
and that their capital was being sunk in the unwise and unjust attempt
to set aside the natural law of “ the survival of the fittest.” You ask why
we suddenly ceased to praise him and his works. Because information
reached us that be was using his position as the only spiritual bookseller
in London, in quashing orders received for certain kinds of spiritual
literature, prohibiting its sale along with the rest at public meetings, and
practising other trade tricks, all the time that he was demanding heavy
sums of money from the public on the plea that he was working hard to
circulate spiritual literature. But we kept silence. At the present time,
it would save Spiritualists in country towns much expense if they could
get all their newspapers weekly in one parcel; he has long refused to
supply them in this way himself. Mr. Farmer advertises that he will do
so, but Mr. Burns now will not let him have nearly enough Mediums to
get his parcels off on Thursday evenings; so with this stumbling-block
in his way, Mr. Farmer is obliged to start his parcels a day late. £4,000
expended by a disinterested committee, would have kept Sunday evening
lectures going iu three different parts of London for five years, and in
addition would have cleared the cost of the erection of a handsome
public building. Most of it has, however, really been expended in saving
individuals from paying a penny per week. It is to be hoped it will
not be necessary to recur to this subject.
NSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calamities.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person a (theoretically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of the
BAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSUEANCE COMPANY,
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.,
OB TO
MR. THOMAS BLYTON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW,
LONDON, E.
Spiritualism and reform. < ‘ The Banner of Light ”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Three Months, 75 cents.
O. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
BEREAVEMENT.—Mr. Lambert, the well-known
medium, has had a serious loss in the death of his brother. His ex¬
penses have been so heavy in maintaining deceased’s wife and numerous
family that he begs Spiritualists to help him. Address—Mr. Lambert, 16,
Sewardstone-road, West, Victoria-park, E.
Sept. 25, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Qerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Q-regory, Mrs., 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenoken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Ross-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, Colville-rd.,Kensingston-pk., W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace,. Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. TeL E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., Waterloo Hotel, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss. 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
Bang, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O. v
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, StockweU, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A., M.D., LL.D., &c.; 17, Trafalgar-road, 'Old Kent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. 0., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terraoe, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs,, 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistcmt Secretary.
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M!. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pasth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J.Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James;Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East .Indian Railway, Bengal.
O. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh,'26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover-square, two doors from Regent-street.
'R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
_ daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
■RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
Mrs. Woodforde is on a visit in Leicestershire and will be absent
some weeks. Letters addressed as above will be forwarded.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush-
W. Please write.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
QJ . Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register tour Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
O 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. JACKSON’S Table dHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.O.
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STAND-POINT.
A Resume of Evidence—pro and con.
. BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
Ingle & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
TO SPIRITUALISTS L1YING NEAR REDHILL.
A married couple wish to enlarge their circle, and would be glad to,
meet with Spiritualists resident in their neighbourhood, of congenial mind,
and desirous of uniting for regular intercourse with friends in the other
life. References expected and given, H. A. A., Post Office, Redhill
Surrey. -   
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath4drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
TVeoswrer.—Herbert N. Mozlet, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices,—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. (Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
T> EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
Afonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
’S
B ' THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 25; .1874.
EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace 8. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. 8wepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
repoi’t, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingfr can
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced -by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and' everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO DORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
t are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable tempSrature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each. sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us .out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in t£e body:
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of ’ an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.1
THE I PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.O.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for , the ,
prompt execution of all orders. Printing tof all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms':
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.  
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”'"
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs, Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,’’
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, - and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Patemoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.. ■
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holbom, W.C,
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
rpHE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
J. SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of jthe most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C. 2
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the Ipath of duty; also _the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth,, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
chools.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London,
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force ?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm—
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Nervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure oe Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing. >
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Remarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborp Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. .W
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.C.
/
