AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
IREGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 164.—(Vol. VII.—No. 16.) LONDON: OCTOBER 15, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Spiritualists and Physicists      181
Spirit People ... ...    182
Powerful Spiritual Phenomena in Rome. By Signor Enrico Matnucci 183
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris   183
A Seance with Mrs. Kate Fox Jencken     184
Services at the Cavendish Rooms :—The Doctrine of a Final Cause ... 184
British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council
—New Members—Finance Committee’s Report—Correspondence
—A Munificent Present to the Spiritual Movement—Mr. Morse’s
Sunday Lectures—The National Conference—Miscellaneous Busi¬
ness—Public Lectures and Discussions — National Association
Soirees ... ...           185
Testimonial to Mr. W. H. Harrison     186
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Public Reception of M.
Aksakof and Professor Butlerof—Words of Welcome to our Rus¬
sian Visitors—M. Aksakof on Spiritualism in Russia—Professor
Butlerof on Spiritualism   187
Poetry-Cor inquietum   ...    189
Correspondence : —Spiritual Phenomena and Conjurors—The Doc¬
trine of Reincarnation—Mediumship—Modern Necromancy—Co¬
operation of Spiritualists in Reforms—Dr. Wylde’s Offer of £100... 189
Provincial News:—Portsmouth, The Nature of Spirit Hands—Mani¬
festations in a Church—Southport, Physical Manifestations  191
Paragraphs:—Spiritual Literature, 185; Organisation among Spirit¬
ualists in America, 186 ; Malapropism in Paris, 186; The Banner
. of Light, 190; Mr. Jov- in America, 190; Mr. Morse’s Return to
England, 190; Entertainment at the Cavendish Rooms, 190;
Passed to Spirit Life, 192; Presents to the National Association,
.192; Spiritualistic Organisation in Great Britain, 192; Allan Kar-
dec’s Speculations, 19? ; Dalston Spiritual Society  192
EAST LONDON SPIRITDAL MEETINGS. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Chequq Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guineaa year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 36s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will be held in London, at 38, Great Russell-street, W.C., from the 3rd
to the 5th of November.
Genekal Peogeamme.
Wednesday,•'November 3.—Opening Soiree—at the Cavendish Rooms, for
the benefit of Mr. Morse. Hours from 6.30 to 10.30.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Second
Session, 7.30.
Friday, November 5.—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects foe Papees.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism as a Religious
Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
5. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—its objects and
interests.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to he sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-sireet, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to be had on application to
the Secretary.
AH Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
WANTED, by a Widow Lady, of a kind and cheerful
disposition, an appointment as Housekeeper, Companion,
Amanuensis, or any position of trust and confidence. Would not object
to travel, or a non-resident engagement would be accepted. Address,
C. W. 8., care of Mr. Ingram, 267a, Oxford-street, W.
Le messager,
the 1st and 15th of
a fortnightly Journal, published on
every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathgdrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
R
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de LiUe, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
PARTS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
w
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, Maeshall & Co.
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK. By ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell. Price 7s. 6d. Postage
6Jd. Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
N e wspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London W.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post tree Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater-
noster-row, E.O. '
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by georgi$
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very hign stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent imerest.
A new series of the Magazine commences in January, 1075, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commoncn
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-row ,E 0,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1875.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fltz-G-erald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.O.S.. 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood. Mrs., 62, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-road,
Pinchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 206, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-street, Ltverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newtoo, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-roud Blacbheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T.. 28, Portland-piace, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-bill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. TeL E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-U erald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborbugh-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W,
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-stieet, W.
James, Oapt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Brvham,!, King-square, Goswell-road, E.U.
Meers, W. D., Ay Isham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nos worthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C, T., M.R.C.^., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk. N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley. N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood,
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.O.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H„ M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orrae-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms. St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal), H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R, Smith, Esq.,Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. TEmpereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha, h Bahdje' Capoussou, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vsy, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York. U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L.*V. Tappan, New Yorir, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York,
U.S.A
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 85, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia,
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Olinton-avenue, Brooklyn, Now York, U.S.A.
M. F. Olavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Ausiria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Basqompiorre, 285, Chaussfee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fi'itz, President de TUnion, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby. 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honors, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq.. Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Griinhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57. Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Oowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
Mil. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODEORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desir'e of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington,
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational trance
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States, on a lecturing tour.
He will return to England by the 20th October next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course.
W arwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative [Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
dailyl from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
RS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
-LfJL STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communiea-
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays, at
7 p.m,, and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Previous
appointments should be made for private seances.
VOLUJVIE ^EVEJsf. j^UJ^BEE ^IXTEEJ^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15th, 1875.
Spintalisi
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-orown for
^ the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view'amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London : and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the. Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub¬
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
" “ The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. j.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one" penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., whioh may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post-
office Order for sums less than ^2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling.
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi¬
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year ISIS,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
thp offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
A Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on-the Continent
of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present, time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.:
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barnster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Tern pieman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; theRev.C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C. Hall.F.S.A.: Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs, F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze: Mr. J. M. Peebles (United Slates): Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
SPIRITUALISTS AND PHYSICISTS.
In number 151 (July 16th, 1875) of The Spiritualist,
the unfairness with which scientific committees have
hitherto dealt with mediums was pointed out in detail,
and examples quoted showing how, in perfect ignor¬
ance of the nature of the manifestations, they have
usually broken the conditions favourable for their
occurrence; how they have almost invariably as¬
sumed the mediums to be impostors; and how in
those cases where they have witnessed inexplicable
phenomena, they have been. too cowardly to own
that which they knew. Further, evidence was ad¬
duced to show that their belief or disbelief in the
manifestations would be of very little use to Spirit¬
ualism, which has a natural growth of its own, and
cannot be forced upon the world before its time by
any scientific committee. Under these circumstances,
with the light of past experience as a guide, it seems
to be a duty to call the attention of the committee
appointed by the St. Petersburg University to these
circumstances, and to make some kind of protest be¬
forehand, which shall stand on record as a matter of
history. The advantage of this line of action will he,
first of all, to show them that their opinion is not con¬
sidered an all-important matter; secondly, it will
secure fairer treatment to the mediums; and thirdly,
it will induce the committee to attend more carefully
to the conditions under which the phenomena are
known to occur. Without some such strong protest
in advance, they are likely to tread, in all simplicity,
in the footsteps of their predecessors.
Nearly every individual of any influence who comes
into a spirit circle for the first time, says : “ If I see
such and such a thing, I will put my name to the facts
at once,” thinking in the simplicity of his heart that
friends and the public will believe him, although they
abused others who have gone before. Ample expe¬
rience has been gained inside Spiritualism to show
that this idea, 'which is common both to individuals and
to committees, is a delusion.
In a letter published in these pages a fortnight ago,
Dr. Wylde ^offered a reward of a hundred pounds to
any clairvoyant who should read the contents of sealed
envelopes under the conditions which he laid down.
Has he any evidence that clairvoyants have ever read
anything under those conditions ? It may be that
clairvoyants, like other mediums, can only exercise
their spiritual gifts when they are quite at ease and
perfectly happy,—so happy that they can pass into a
state of unconscious trance without fear. Possibly the
Edinburgh men of science, to whose mercies Dr. Wylde
wishes to submit some simple boy or girl, may not
form such a circle as to give the conditions most
favourable to the evolution of the spiritual powers.
We do not say that this is actually the case; the
question is. merely raised whether men have a right
to impose their own conditions upon natural pheno¬
mena of which they know nothing. Has a man who
182
Oct. 15, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST.
knows nothing of the nature of a mixture of hydrogen
and chlorine gases, the right to insist that they shall
remain mixed with each other in a glass globe in
bright sunlight, without entering into chemical union ?
Dr. Wylde’s offer in relation to clairvoyance may
or may not be a fair one, but it has little or nothing
to do with Spiritualism, whichever way it may he
decided. If the facts were to be admitted by his
witnesses, as they have been ad nauseam by men who
have gone before them, they would then be very
quietly shelved, or some Edinburgh society might
pass an evening in palaver upon the interesting ques¬
tion, “ Is there a sixth sense?” What would be the
use of this to Spiritualism? Dr. Wylde would do
better did he offer the reward of £100 to a medium who
can obtain raps governed by intelligence, which raps
competent witnesses shall certify are not due to
trickery. One portion of his letter he ought as a
gentleman to regret, namely, that in which he ex¬
presses the opinion that so many millions of intelli¬
gent men and women all over the world have been
deceived by tricks of legerdemain, consequently that
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism have no real
existence.
| SPIRIT PEOPLE.”
The following review is from the South Wales Daily
News (Cardiff) of last Monday week :—
The Spiritualist Library. No. 1.—“Spirit People.”—A
scientifically accurate description of manifestations recently
produced by spirits, and simultaneously observed by the
author and other observers in London. By William H. Harri¬
son. London: W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street. 1875.
The author of this little, well-written and startling book is
widely, and we believe favourably, known along the whole
southern seaboard of South Wales, from Cardiff to Milford
Haven. Mr. Harrison was the first manager of the Electric
Telegraph Company’s offices in Haverfordwest, and while there
won troops of friends by his gentlemanly behaviour, his suavity
of manner, his intelligence and his courtesy to all who required
to use the wires. While in Haverfordwest he was a constant
contributor to the Haverfordwest Telegraph, in whose columns
he published many articles on telegraphy and cognate subjects;
and several poetic pieces, some of them very amusing, after the
fashion of the Ingoldshy Legends. He subsequently became
attached to the staff of the Cambrian Daily Leader, and formed
a large circle of friends and acquaintances in Cardiff.* With
this exordium in proof of the material personality of the clever
author of Spirit People, it might he stated that his book, startling
in its revelations and astounding in some of its statements, is'
written in a calm, quiet, and non-dogmatic style. Indeed, Mr.
Hatrison says in his preface:—
“ The facts set forth in^ this little work are as coolly and im¬
partially recorded as if I had been observing any other scientific
phenomena. I had no theory to uphold, no pr&iudice to over¬
come, and no anxiety to make proselytes from among those who
have an antipathy to Spiritualism. Nobody has any right to
force his opinions upon his neighbours if they have a dislike to
the same. If a man is aware of a great truth of which his
neighbours are ignorant, it is his duty to state that truth, and to
give further information relating to it when requested, but not
to attempt to force a new revelation upon those to whom it is
unacceptable.”
The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which Mr.
Harrison seems to have approached the question, eminently
fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the phe¬
nomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful perusal
of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that the
statement in his, preface is fairly sustained. He neither
* The submarine cable, ninety miles long, from Wales to Ireland via
Abermawr Bay, bad frequently to be tested by Mr. Harrison, and the cir¬
cumstance that he had to do this delicate scientific work was the means of
first making him acquainted with Mr. Cromwell Varley, then chief
engineer to the International Telegraph Company; the result of the
acquaintance was that Mr. Harrison returned to London as Mr. Varley's
private secretary, and afterwards became a convert to Spiritualism.
theorises, nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he
believes did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narra¬
tive style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument.
The mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is
praiseworthy; but what of the task itself ? To those who are
unacquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those
so-called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the sys¬
tem, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible. They will either ascribe
them, as a thoughtful and well-read man in Cardiff did ascribe
them a day or two ago, to the agency of evil spirits, or to a
trick and deception similar to the experiments of Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cook, at the Egyptian Hall, Piccadilly.’ And
it must be confessed that when heavy objects move and rise
in the air without the application of physical force, and with¬
out apparent reason; when knockings for which no cause can be
assigned are heard, and so-called spirit revelations communicated
thereby; when the secret thoughts of some of those assembled are
revealed by the spirit people; when spirit forms appearand
vanish, and mediums float in the air without any visible means or
appliances, it is sufficiently startling to amaze and confound all
preconceived opinions. Preconceived opinions, however, are
not the test of truth, but evidence ; and the kind and degree of
evidence which the truth or the fact requires must be deter¬
mined by the character of that truth or fact. For men to
assume that they have the truth either in science or in religion,
and hence to reject all doctrine which is not in harmony with
their thuth, has ever been the error and. sin of the world. The
question then is, has Mr. Harrison proved his truth ? We do
not think that he has, neither was that his object; but he
has supplied such a mass of evidence, and has made such sur¬
prising statements, which he sustains by his own affirmation
and the affirmation - of others, as not only to challenge but to
demand investigation. It is “the part of cowardice and unwis¬
dom, and, indeed, even of dishonesty, to refuse them that inves¬
tigation. No man can say, or is entitled to say, that Spirit¬
ualism is an imposition, until he has examined its proofs ; and
one means, and a very important means for that examination,
is supplied in this little and well-got-up volume. There is
nothing antecedently improbable in supposing that spirit .can
manifest itself independently of a material organisation, any
more than there is that it can manifest itself through such
an organisation. We believe that it does the latter, but what
valid material or spiritual objection is there against its doing
the former ? The question deserves attention and honest inves¬
tigation, and we can recommend Mr. Harrison as fairly attempt¬
ing to assist that investigation.
The Haverfordwest Telegraph of last week says :—
The London correspondent of the Cardiff Times and
South Wales Daily News makes the following reference to a
work on Spiritualism, hy Mr. W. H. Harrison, the editor of T^he
Spiritualist, who was for some time editor of the Cambria Daily
Leader, and is well known in South Wales:—
“ The Spiritualists are about to publish a collection of small
volumes, at a low price, called the ‘ Spiritualist Library.’ The
first work of the series has just appeared. If it did not bear
the name of Mr. William Harrison, editor of The Spiritualist
newspaper, as author, I should have supposed the book was
intended as a satire. Mr. Harrison was originally a disbeliever
in Spiritualism. The history of his conversion, as related by
himself, serves to show how very slight is the amount of evidence
required to induce belief. At the first seance which he attended a
table was moved ; but that, he rightly judged, could not have
been done by spirits. At the second seance he was determined
to ascertain if there was any human intelligence at work, so he
asked the name of the sister-in-law of the editor of the Engineer.
A name was given, but it was a wrong one. He was then advised
to try a professional mpdium, Mrs. Marahall. He did so, ‘but
nothing remarkable took place,’ and he left, thinking the seance
a decided failure. Five months later he attended a fourth seance,
‘ but there was no developed medium present, and we obtained
no manifestations.’ This was not an encouraging beginning,
but Mr. Harrison persevered. His next experiment was with
the professional medium, Mrs. Marshall, again, and on that
occasion a table floated in the air. When it had descended
to the ground, Mrs. Marshall gave a specimen of spirit¬
writing. It was to be done under the table, and Mrs.
Marshall straightway charged that no one should look to see
what was going on, ‘ which order (says Mr. Harrison naively)
seemed to me then to be rather peculiar.   .
At a dark seance the same jolly spirit strongly recommended
183
Oct. 15, 1875.' tHE SflEITtALIST.
Guinness’s stout—a fact which surely should be turned to
account for advertising purposes, like the Rev. Sir Edward
Jodrell’s recommendation of the Speciality Sherry, or Bishop
Wordsworth’s denunciation of teetotalism, which the Chester
spirit merchant publishes with a list of his goods. At the same
seance Mr. Harrison was told that he might ask for some
tropical fruit, but on taking the spirit at his word was told,
“Yes, you may ask, but you won’t get it,” and Mr. Harrison
didn’t get it. Mr. Harrison’s sancta simplicitas knows no
bounds. He describes a long conversation which he had with
John King, who told him among other things, that the spirit
lights which he had seen were “ of phosphorus,” which was,
probably the truest statement ever made by John King. After
a long discourse, Mr. Harrison asked if he (John King) could
go home to Mr. Harrison’s house and say what was taking
place. He replied “ Yes,” and, adds Mr. Harrison, “ There was
an interval of two seconds, after which John King said ‘ There
are four persons there who have been having something to eat,
and two of them have gone for a walk.’ I afterwards learnt
that this was not true.” Mr. Harrison goes on to tell another
story about a poor servant girl who saw a spirit, or, at least, some¬
thing white, said girl having been previously terribly frightened
by a tremendous storm, which had made all the family rise
from their beds, and afraid to go to Test again. It will be seen
that Mr. Harrison is a bond fide Irishman. He candidly admits
all the failures I have described; but the marvel is, that in
spite of all, he can retain his belief in Spiritualism. Mr.
Crookes, Mr. Yarley, Mr. Wallace, and the other savans who
have adhered to that faith, must look upon the too candid editor
of The Spiritualist as a veritable enfant terrible.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman lias written the following
letter to Mr. Harrison:—
Dear Mr. Harrison,—On my library table there are many
books which invite me at my leisure to look into them. I
have accordingly just spent a leisure hour in reading for the
first time your little work entitled Spirit People—one of a
series which you say are to compose the Spiritualist Library,
and I cannot refrain from complimenting you on the unaffected
and truthful way in which you have there placed on record your
earliest introduction to Spiritualism and its phenomena. It is
a most useful little book to put into the hands of all serious
inquirers, and contains enough for the present to arrest their
attention. Your later experiences, which I know from personal
observation transcend in scientific importance your first, will, I
presume, form the second of the series, and, to use your own
words, the first book is received by me “ with such favour as to
cause the advent of its successor to be anticipated with pleasure.”
—Very truly yours, Benj. Coleman.
Upper Norwood, Oct. 4th, 1875.
POWERFUL SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN ROME.
BY SIGNOR ENRICO MANNUCCI.
There are few persons who become believers through simply
reading books of Spiritist philosophy; so, to comply with the
demands of the many, we seek for physical effects, and we may
add that we have already obtained results of a sufficiently satis¬
factory nature, such as the raising of heavy bodies from the
floor, contrary to the known laws of gravity. We have had
objects brought to us in great variety, such as flowers, books,
sweetmeats, and other delicacies; perfumes, pieces of money—
antique and modern—of the value of a pound sterling. Certain
of our friends have even been carried from their home to the
place where I and four or five of my companions were sitting, and
this without having their clothes deranged in the slightest degree,
even to a fold, and without change of the attitudes in which they
were an instant before. This occurred when we begged the
spirits to effect the transport. We have obtained these pheno¬
mena not only in the interior of our houses, but also in the most
frequented streets of the town. We have heard voices that can¬
not be imitated (files voix inimitables'), strange noises and melo¬
dious sounds ; invisible hands have caressed us; they laid hold
of our hair, and even struck us, and daubed us with colouring
matter. . . . Our coats have been turned without being unfas¬
tened, or drawn off without being unbuttoned, and this in full
light, on the public roads. Objects that one of us had in his
pockets were found in the pockets of another, and hung behind
his back, or placed on his head. We have had our portraits
taken (/aits') by these same spirits; these portraits resemble
photographs, but are, nevertheless, not quite the same. We have
shown them to artists, to painters as well as to photographers,
who have not been able to explain their nature. Lastly, we have
obtained the phenomena of spectral apparitions materialised,
and have conversed with these spirits absolutely, as we would
have done with living persons. We have obtained these pheno¬
mena chiefly though the agency of the good and jovial spirit who
calls himself “ John King; ” we seek to make them known
everywhere, and we know that there are several circles being
formed, which, like our own, try to obtain the same results.—
Revue Spirite, Paris.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
To the Editor of11 The Spiritualist.'’
Sir,—I have not written to you fcr several weeks, having
had nothing much to say. (If all people having nothing much
to say would only say nothing, what a better world this would
be! Speech is not always silver, but the older I grow the
higher in carat value do I esteem the gold of silence.) But last
week I sent you what was indeed worth printing, a careful
translation of Buguet’s retractation and recantation, and in
reference thereto wish to add a few comments.
I hope your readers remember—or that they will refer back
to—the former letters,, in which I gave them some idea of the
modus operandi of criminal ujustice" in France. It begins
with the moral torture of the solitary cell; the “ grace efficace ”
of its action on the nerves of a weak man; the private interro¬
gations by a judge-inquisitor (the juge d’instruction), whose
object and whose professional triumph are to bring him to con¬
fess all that it is wanted to get out of him. If the case should
involve the hated and dreaded subject of Spiritism (most hated
where most dreaded), and if the judge-inquisitor should happen
to be a narrow-minded man, who could send back to Madame
Leymarie an excellent volume on The Reason of Spiritism by a
fellow judge, with the message that he would not allow such a
book in the house, and who could refuse to admit Firman to
bail, though the other two parties accused, being French, had
been bailed at the trifling figure of £40, and was furious when
a higher authority (influenced by the appeals of the American
legation) did at last admit him to bail at six times. the figure
which had been accepted for Buguet; if, further, that “ judge,”
in his interrogation of Firman, could demean himself in such a
manner as to elicit a rebuke even from the official interpreter,
an honest Englishman, whose name I regret not to know—-why,
it becomes easy to understand, and not difficult to believe, how
Buguet was manipulated and moulded into the swift witness of
falsehood he became against Spiritualism in general and against
the two others in particular, co-accused as his accomplices. He
says he was promised to be let off without imprisonment if he
abjured mediumship and Spiritism, and he has in fact been so let
off. And he has been let off in a way and under circumstances
difficult to explain, otherwise than by the presumption that it
was in the substantial fulfilment of an engagement more or less
distinct or explicit. The Courts, both the Correctional and that
of Appeal, could not help condemning him to a year’s imprison¬
ment on his confessions, and on his mannikin and box of figure¬
heads. And how else could Leymarie and Firman have been
condemned—they who stood only in the secondary attitude of
imputed complicity ? i Buguet had foolishly supposed that he
was sure of an acquittal on his appeal; so at least he told his
friends, from whom it came to the Leymaries. After the neces¬
sary disappointment of that expectation, he was very angry, and
said that he had been tricked (bernt) up to the last. But ob¬
serve that he was then left at liberty for over a fortnight,
contrary to all regularity, with his confirmed sentence to
a year’s imprisonment (not even appealed against to the
Court of Cassation), and not a farthing of bail to stand
in the way of his taking the train to Brussels I I say,
not a farthing, because though his original nominal bail
of £40 was still on deposit, yet that was now gone anyhow,
being more than covered by his fine and costs. Leymarie, who
did appeal further in Cassation, had to deposit a further bail of
2,000 francs. I am reliably assured, also, that an order for
Buguet’s being taken to prison had been made out—that being
the regular course of things—but some influence intervened to
prevent its execution. This shows, that of those, in authority
over the matter some did and others did not know that he was
to be allowed to walk off. And walk off he of course did, sixteen
days after his condemation, on appeal; of, rather, he took the
train to Brussels, like any other gentleman, and, like any other
gentleman, exhibited his card to the police at the French fron¬
tier, as he has declared to two of -our highly respectable
friends who “interviewed” him at Brussels. His charge now
made of having been worked up as a witness by the promise
of being let off from imprisonment stands, therefore, so
supported by the subsequent fact of its fulfilment, with apparent
police connivance, as to make it no sin against either logic or
184
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1875
charity when I say that I feel compelled to believe it. By
whom the promise was made, whether by the juge d'instruction
or by other police people, I do not feel called rtpon to pronounce.
Buguet’s own language above speaks for itself, and I do not
care to comment upon it, further than to say that the more we
see of this French system of private inquisition called the
“ instruction ” the more detestable it looks.
Firman, after having undergone nearly half of the term of his
sentence at St. P^lagie (besides six weeks of previous solitary
confinement) has, by the advice of his friends and of his counsel,
M. Carraby, applied to the President of the Republic for a re¬
mission of the rest of it. This application has been supported
by a strong recommendation from Mr. Washburne, the American
Minister/ I can scarcely see how it can be refused.
Paris. J. L. O’Sullivan.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. KATE FOX JENCKEN.
Mr. H. D. Jencken has given M. Aksakof and Professor
Butlerof, of St. Petersburg, facilities for witnessing spiritual
manifestations through the mediumship of Mrs. Jencken (Kate
Fox), during their stay in London. Afe^r days ago a seance took
place, at which, in addition to Mr. and Mrs. Jencken, the
witnesses present were M. Aksakof, Professor Butlorof, Mr. J.
N. T. Martheze, M. Bourbon, Mr. Webster Glynes, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison. The chief feature of the seance was the fine raps
through Mrs. Jencken’s mediumship. Mrs. Jencken placed her
hands upon a door of which Professor Butlerof could see both
sides, in a good light, and loud raps immediately came upon its
surface. He then asked that the raps should come upon the
wood work of the door-posts, and they came upon them at once,
close to his ear, and to the place previously indicated by him.
Some, messages thVough writing mediumship were also obtained;
they were written backwards, and had to be held up to the
light, so that the paper could be looked through in order to
enable the words to bo read.
Another seance was subsequently held, at which Messrs.
Aksakof and Butlerof witnessed further interesting manifes¬
tations.
SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
THE DOCTRINE OF A FINAL CAUSE.
Last Sunday night, Dr. George Sexton lectured at the Caven¬
dish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, London, on “ The
Doctrine of a Final Cause,” and took for his text the following
verse from the Psalms:—“ The glory of the Lord shall epdure
forever; the Lord shall rejoice in His works.” The speaker
said that on the previous Sunday he dealt with the subject of
what he called “ The Idea of God,” or what to the Germans was
known as the “ God Consciousness,” In all ages and in all
countries men believed in some kind of God; indeed the belief
was so deeply fixed in the human mind that it could not be
eradicated; it was as firmly fixed in the minds of many as was
their belief in the external world, or in their own existence.
That evening he had to deal with another argument relating to
the existence of the Deity—he meant the doctrine of a final
cause. He said that the ideas of men to-day, both inside and
outside the Churches, were deeply tinged with materialism ; in
Ritualism and Roman Catholicism, for instance, there was much
to appeal to sensual feeling; so such services had a materialistic
tendency. If the great men of ancient times, such as Aristotle
and Plato, were to come back now to this earth, they would be
struck by the revelations of science, by the power which man
had gained over the material world ; but they would see that
men had not progressed one step in metaphysical study
beyond the times in which they lived. This was sin¬
gular, because men, however they might wish it, could not
escape altogether from metaphysics, and Comte and others were
in error in saying that in those days we had gone beyond meta¬
physics—that the latter had been supplanted by positive me¬
thods. But he (Dr. Sexton) thought that the investigation of
the spiritual nature of man must necessarily be of a metaphys¬
ical character. The problem presented by the doctrine of a
final cause was somewhat metaphysical in its nature, and
hundreds of books had been written to show that effects have
no cause. David Hume, for instance, had taught that there
was no such thing as cause- and effect; he asserted that all a
man can know is that one event follows another, and although
observers attributed to the antecedent a power, it was mere
assumption, for the human mind had no direct experience of it.
If Hume was right in this, nO argument could be founded on
cause and effect to prove the existence of God, yet the ordinary
experience of man told him that Hume’s argument was wrong.
Day followed night, and night followed day, yet nobody asserted
that the one caused the other, the succession being casual and
not causal. Swallows fly low before rain comes, but nobody
supposes the rain to be caused by the swallows flying low, con¬
sequently there are some things in which there is a succession of
events, yet which do not suggest the idea of a cause ; but other
events did not come under this category, and the fact of the
existence of the difference between the two sets of events showed
that Hume was wrong. The doctrine of the conservation of
energy Dr. Sexton had no doubt was true, consequently he hold
with all men of science that there had always been the same
amount of force in the universe as at present, and that the force
only became changed so as to present different appearances.
For instance, there were no such things as light, heat, or elec¬
tricity as actual substances—they were only forms of force. If
a leaden ball fell upon a plate of iron the force was not lost when
the ball was arrested, for the piece of lead became hot. Thus
the force of mechanical motion had been transformed into
molecular motion or heat, and heat, as they all knew, could be
transformed into mechanical motion, as exemplified in the case
of. the steam engine. Indeed, if they admitted Hume’s state¬
ment that we know only of the succession of events, the question
would still remain—What caused the change ? Thus he held
that all effects.had some cause prior to themselves, consequently
something must have existed through all eternity. Materialists
held that in very early times atoms, endowed with the same
powers as at present, whirled about in space, came into contact
with each other, and feeling ill at ease in their first alliance
whirled away again, until at last they settled down into more
harmonious relations ; first they formed a cabbage, then a dog,
then a pig, and nobody could tell what -they would form next.
In plain English, they meant that this world was formed by
“ chance,” although he was aware that philosophers did not like
the word “ chance.” There must have been a first cause for all
phenomena ; and as there could not have been an eternal
series of causes and effects, until they reached the first cause
no real cause at all could be found, otherwise they only
saw links in a chain, and the final link remained undis¬
covered. The phenomena of the universe before their eyes
might be compared to a chain hanging down from the sky;
several links were before their eyes, and they knew that one
link supported the next one below, but the question was, “ What
supported the whole chain?” High up, somewhere or other,
there must be a beam or something capable of supporting it.
So it was all very well to say that a man came from his
parents; that was only one link in the chain; he wanted to
know where mankind came from. It by no means followed
from what he had already said, that that first cause was God;
still they must remember that a first cause must be adequate to
produce everything which followed. If it were a force, it must
be the highest of all forces, capable of controlling all other forms
of force, otherwise, at each successive stage in the succession
something must be specially created—something added. The
highest form of force known to man was intelligence; in the
steam-engine a multitude of forces and appliances were at work,
but, tracing them all back to their origin, it would be found
that intelligent men had to devise and make the engine,
and intelligent men were employed to work it; in like
manner, in tracing out a final cause, they must come to
volition—to mind. When he stood with his head uncovered
upon the broad earth, and saw stretched above him a universe
the very contemplation of which almost awed him into silence
by its sublimity, what inference could he draw except that
behind the whole thing, somewhere or other, there must be a
great and grand intelligence which produced the machine, and
kept it in action; therefore he thought it to be as certain that
there is a God, as that that jug stood before him on the table.
In this line of reasoning he was not following the “ design ”
argument, but the “ causation ” argument. It might bo asked
—How did it concern him to know how there was a First
Cause ? If there were a God there must be a purpose in the
universe; whereas if man came there by chance he could do
what he liked, and feel that he was not responsible to anybody
—neither to the laws of society nor religion, for man’s responsi¬
bility to God was the strongest inducement to lead a good life.
The phenomena of nature gave no evidence that God was good ;
a man might stand upon the mountain side, might watch the
flowers blooming about him, and the fleecy clouds sailing
athwart the blue sky above, and come to the conclusion that the
God who made all these must indeed be a God of love. But let
him wait a bit. The clouds begin to gather, the lightning
flashes, and the artillery of heaven begins to peal; the storm
tossed ship on the ocean before him, laden with five hundred
human souls, with wives and families at home, is struck in the
Got. 15, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
185
midst of a peal of” thunder, and every man on board goes to the
bottom. How was the loving Father seen there ? Nature did
not teach man of a loving God, but the New Testament did.
Reason would take man up to a First Cause and no further;
after they arrived at that point they had no alternative but to
turn to revelation, and to ask of it the nature, origin, and
future of the hum^n race.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OP THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night a Council meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists was held at its rooms, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., under the presidency
of Mr. Alexander Calder. The members present were Mr. and
Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss HougHton,
Mr. Joseph Freeman, Mr. H. T. Humphreys, Mrs. Maltby, Mr.
Morell Theobald, Mr. T. Everitt, Mrs. Everitt, Mr. E. D. Rogers,
Mr. H. Withall, Mr. Richard Pearce, Mr. George King, and Mr.
Charles Hunt.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
NEW MEMBERS.
Eight new members were elected.
FINANCE COMMITTEE’S REPORT.
Mr. Morell Theobald, Chairman to the Finance Committee}
reported the balance in hand to be £109 10s. 3d., and recom¬
mended payments, including rent, salaries, and other items, to
the amount of £68 2s. It estimated the outstanding liabilities
of the Association at £5.
Mr. Morell Theobald next presented an account of the income
and expenditure of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists from June 1874 to June 1875.
The receipts were as follows:—Guarantee fund, £167 3s.;
subscriptions, £36818s. Id.; proceeds of the bazaar, £9111s. 8d.;
interest, 10s. 4d.; total, £628 3s. Id.
The expenses were :—Furnishing, £167 19s.; public meetings
and soirees, £48 3s. 9d.; stationery, printing, rent, advertising,
postage, salaries, and sundry charges, £242 14s. 2d.; house¬
keeping and library expenses, £7 5s. 4d. Total, £466 2s. 3d.
Balance in the hands of the Association in June, 1875,
£162 Os. lOd.
Mr. E. D. Rogers spoke of the great obligation the Associa¬
tion was under to Mr. Morell Theobald for so carefully auditing
its accounts, and proposed a vote of thanks to him for what had
been done.
This was seconded and passed with acclamation.
The Finance Committee was authorised to spend £7 in the
purchasing of additional seats for the accommodation of those
who would attend the Conference meetings.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Secretary read a letter from Professor Butlerof, saying
that he could not for the present accept the position of honorary
member of the Association while he stood in his present scientific
position in relation to the whole question. He returned thanks
for the invitation.
A letter from Mr. Harrison was next read, stating that Messrs.
Colby and Rich, of Boston, had, in a private note, asked him to
return thanks to the British National Association of Spiritualists
for the honour of having been elected members thereof.
A letter from Rassim Pacha was read, expressing his plea¬
sure at the honour of having been elected a member. He
said that he was now in office at Trebizonde, and wished to
know how to invoke spirits, and more particularly how to come
into communication with any particular spirit he wished to con¬
verse with.
The Secretary next read a letter from Dr. Ditson, of New
York, in which he said that Mr. Joy had visited him.
A letter from Mrs. Emma Hardinge was next read, recom¬
mending to the notice of Spiritualists a book entitled “ The Art
of Magic,” about to be published in America. She further said
that she had retired from the public rostrum, because she did
not like the way in which Spiritualism was carried on in
America.
A letter from Mdlle. Huguet stated that she was about to
send from Paris by a friend some French copies of Allan
Kardec’s works as a present to the National Association library.
A friendly letter from Mr. Terry, of Melbourne, was next
read.
A MUNIFICENT PRESENT TO THE SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT.
A letter from Mr. T. E. Partridge was next read, announcing
his intention to present to the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists twenty-four first-class musical boxes, not made on the
same pattern, and not playing the same tunes, the total value of
the said boxes being about £200. On the motion of the Chair¬
man, a warm vote of thanks for this munificent gift was passed
with acclamation.
MR. MORSE’S SUNDAY LECTURES.
A letter from Mr. Morse was read, asking the Association to
engage him to give public Sunday evening services in London
during the month of November. It was resolved to carry out his
wishes by means of a committee, which should raise special
subscriptions for the purpose. Mrs. Maltby, Mr. King, Mr. R.
Pearce, and Mr. Withall, with power to add to their number,
were appointed members of the committee.
THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE.
The Secretary read a letter from Mrs. Tebb offering the use
of a special room at her house to any provincial friend, recom¬
mended by the secretary, who might intend to visit London
during the conference week, and she thought if this offer were
made known it might induce other London friends to do the
same thing.
Mrs. Tebb was thanked for her kindly offer.
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS.
It was resolved that subscriptions paid by friends who joined
the National Association after this date should entitle them to
membership until the close of the year 1876.
Mr. Dawson Rogers reported on behalf of the Seance Committee
that at one of the free seances for inquirers excellent manifesta¬
tions had been obtained, and at another no manifestations at all.
PUBLIC LECTURES AND DISCUSSIONS.
Mr. George King read the report of the Public Lectures Com¬
mittee, as has already been published in The Spiritualist. The
report was adopted with the exception of clause 4. The removal
of this clause left the committee at liberty to admit non-members,
supposing they found they had sufficient space to accommodate
them.
The Lectures Committee was re-appointed to take in hand
the management of the coming meetings. Mr. and Mrs.
Keningale Cook were appointed members of the committee, and
Mr. Harrison retired from it.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SOIREES.
On the motion of Mr. Everitt, seconded by Mr. R. Pearce,
it was resolved that the monthly soirees of the National Asso¬
ciation should be carried on for another six months, beginning
in December next, and that the charge for admission thereto
should be reduced to one shilling.
On the motion of Mr. Rogers it was resolved that stewards
should be appointed by the Soiree Committee to direct the pro¬
ceedings and attend to the comfort of visitors at soirees, there
having been some unintentional confusion at the last one.
Mr. C. Hunt suggested that some arrangement should be made
by the Association to enable Spiritualists who were not rich
to see good physical manifestations at an admission charge of
one shilling each. He will probably bring forward a motion at
the next Council meeting to effect this object. The proceedings
then closed. ,
The Haverfordwest Telegraph says:—Mr. Carlyle declines
with scorn the degree of LL.D., conferred by Harvard Univer¬
sity. American universities, he says, are “ semblances,” their
degrees the “ silliest sham feathers; ” and that he should be
“ asked to join in heading your long lines of D.D.’s and LL.D.’s
—a line of pompous little fellows hobbling down to posterity on
the crutches of two or three letters of the alphabet, passing on
into the oblivion of all universities and small potatoes”—is
more than he can bear.
Spiritual Literature.—All the chief American books on
Spiritualism have for some time past been obtainable at the
branch office of The Spiritualist newspaper, 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C., which now contains the largest stock of works of
this kind in this country. Some new books of considerable
interest and value to the movement will shortly be published at
the same office. In consequence of tho establishment being
well supported by the chief Spiritualists in this country, in
addition to its possession of special agents in the provinces, and
in consequence of its having likewise entered into close busi¬
ness relationship with the Banner of Light office in America, so
as to secure large sales of Spiritual books of good quality in
that country, means have been provided for the extensive dis¬
semination of Spiritual literature. We shall have some an¬
nouncements to make in a week or two about forthcoming publi¬
cations of interest.
186
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1875.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
We have been requested by the Committee to publish
the following circular, and we ask our readers to bear
with the circumstance that so much of this number of
The Spiritualist has a personal character, relating to the
editor of this journal, but it can scarcely be avoided
for once, after many years of comparative silence :—
Commilitt:
Martin E. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Mrs. Makdou&all Gregory.
H. O. Jenoken, Esq., M.B.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E
N. F. Dawr, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
Prince Emile, de Sayn-Wittgen-
STEIN.
'Mrs. Honywood.
Alexander Caller, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.K.S.
Ecgene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
James wason, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer:
Martin K. Smith, Esq., cure of Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Bussell-street,
London, W.O.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions they
would doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have
been for some years past in answer to the appeals of
the Medium ever since its establishment—but he has
not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in
addition to the existing guarantee fund, shall be opened,
which shall take the form of a testimonial to Mr.
Harrison, and which, it is hoped, may to some extent
relieve him from the heavy sacrifices which he has
made in money, time, and work in the interests of
Spiritualism.
AH subscriptions to this fund will be payable on the
1st of January, 1876. Friends desiring to contribute
are requested to send in their names, addresses, and
the amount to Martin R. Smith, Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted
to Mr. Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of
which he is the editor. This journal has been a credit
and strength to the movement in every respect. It
has been printed in clear type and on good paper, and
has been conducted with ability, caution, courage, and
public spirit. It is hardly necessary to say that up to
the present time the paper has been by no means self-
supporting ; indeed, during the first three years of its
existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy
loss, which he bore single-handed. This loss was
aggravated by the fact that, in order the more com¬
pletely to devote his attention to The Spiritualist
newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily relinquished a
considerable portion (estimated; upon reliable informa¬
tion, at an average of not less than £200 per anuum)
of the income which he was deriving from literary work
on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during
the past eight years he has given up one or two
evenings every week to a practical observation of
spiritual phenomena at seances. By his unwearied and
intelligent observation he has been enabled to collect a
mass of reliable information as to the facts and prin:
ciples of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the
religious and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium news¬
paper, which was inaugurated the year after the
appearance of The Spiritualist, has been annually
subsidised by large subscriptions, which its editor, Mr.
Burns, has always called for as justly due to his exer¬
tions. Whilst we fully acknowledge the services which
have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we would
call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that for
a special purpose, appeared in the pages of The Spirit¬
ualist for six years. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr,
Harrison alone ; during the last three years an annual
sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless,
greatly relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr.
Harrison; but this in no way touches the fact that
Mr. Harrison has for years cheerfully submitted to a
heavy pecuniary loss in order to supply to the move¬
ment a paper in many, if not in all respects, worthy
of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion
that it is not to the credit of the movement that this
pecuniary loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
FIRST LIST OF SUBSCRIPTIONS.
£ S. d.
Mr. Martin R. Smith . .
Mr. Charles Blackburn...
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze ...
Mr. Alexander Calder ...
A Friend ... ...
Mr. Alexander Tod ... ...
Mr. N. F. Dawe...
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart....
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein
Mr. R. Hannah ...
Mr. C. F. Yarley, F.R.S.
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D.
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
Mr. Charles Massey
Mrs. Honywood... ...
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
50 0 0
50 0 0
50 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
15 0 0
10 0 0
6 0 0
5 5 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
2 2 0
2 0 0
Mr. Mylne has written from India, saying that he
intends to contribute largely towards thi^ object.
The Spiritualist and other of our publications may be had of
Mr. R. Buxton, 6, Corporation-street, Ducie-bridge, Manchester.
Organisation among Spiritualists in America. — The
American Spiritual Magazine (Memphis) strongly advocates
united friendly action among Spiritualists, and says that
various attempts at organisation are being made among Spiritu¬
alists in America. The New Orleans Association has issued a
declaration of principles of purposes, and at Philadelphia a
society has been formed under the name of “ The Spiritual Pro¬
gressive Union,” the treasurer of which is a lady. The
Spiritual Magazine contains many other matters of interest,
and is well worthy the hearty support of English readers.
The Examiner says:—“ An enterprising gentleman has given
himself the trouble to expose, in a letter to the Times, the frauds
of dealers in bogus degrees. The demand for titles from univer¬
sities seems to be brisk, chiefly we presume, among the lower
sort of clergy and adventure schoolmasters. It is well to know
that one source of such honours has been dried up. The Uni¬
versity of Philadelphia ceased to exist two or three years ago,
although some advertisers seem still to be trading on its name.
Henceforth we shall know what to think of graduates claiming
Philadelphia as their Alma Mater.”
Malapropism in Paris.—During his visit to London M.
Buguet had occasional fierce battles with the English language,
in which the latter usually came off victorious. On his return
to Paris he narrated his experiences, which were published in the
Revue Spirits, to the effect that his photographs had made a
deep impression upon that great English philosopher, “ Croker
'Williams ”; also upon “ Miss Leamington Road Villas.” The
editor of the Revue Spirits complimented one of our middle-
aged men of science by describing him as “ ce venerable chemists
— William Crookes.” After the perpetration of these linguisti-
cal achievements, w0 may, in the words of Mrs. Malaprop,
picture M. Leymarie and M. Buguet as grinning at each other
“ like allegories on the banks of the Nile.”
Mrs. Honywood, Mrs. and Miss Schletter, and Mr. Cromwell
Yarley, F.R.S., have returned to London from the Continent.
Mr. Martheze left London a week ago for Brussels.
M. Leymarie was present at the late Spiritist Congress at
Brussels, and afterwards visited the Spiritist Societies at Liege,
Bruges, and Ostend. He has now returned to Paris.
Oct. 15, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
187
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
PUBLIC RECEPTION OP M. AKSAKOF AND PROFESSOR BUTLEROF.
On Wednesday, last week, the British National Association of
Spiritualists gave a special soiree at its rooms, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, to M. Alexandre Aksakof and
Professor Butlerof, of St. Petersburg. A large number of the
members of the National Association of Spiritualists are away
from town at this season of the year, nevertheless there was a
goodly assemblage last Wednesday of the chief Spiritualists in
London to welcome our Russian visitors. Among the ladies and
gentlemen present on the occasion were M. Soloviof, "of Moscow ;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Honorary Secretary to the Associa¬
tion for the Codification of the Law of Nations; Mrs. Jencken,
better known as “ Kate Fox,” the medium through whose mani¬
festations the great movement of modern Spiritualism took its
rise in America ; Mr. Martin R. Smith; Mr. B. Coleman, <5ne of
the earliest pioneers of the movement in Great Britain, and who
travelled through the United States several years ago in order
to observe the position of Spiritualism in that country; Mr.
Frederick Collingwood, Secretary to the Anthropological Insti¬
tute, an organisation which is doing more than any other in this
country to scientifically study the nature of man; Mr. Alexander
Calderr; Mr. Thomas Everitt; Mrs. Everitt; Mrs. Showers;
Miss Showers; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.; Mrs.
Ross-Church (Florence Marryat) editress of London Society; Mr.
F. Everitt; Miss Everitt; Mr. William Tebb; Mr. T. Herbert
Noyes, B.A. (Oxon); Mrs. Earl Bird; Miss Clemes ; Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers; Mrs. Rogers and family; Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, member of the Society of Telegraph Engineers, and
President of the Brixton Psychological Society; Mr. E. Parkinson
Ashton ; Miss Houghton; Mr. Thomas Blyton (Secretary to the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism); Miss Corner;
Miss Caroline Corner; Mrs. Rudd ; Mrs. Gunyon ; Miss Kisling-
bury (Secretary to the National Association of Spiritualists);
Miss Withall; Miss Fitz-Gerald ; Miss Emily Fitz-Gerald (As¬
sistant-Secretary to the Brixton Psychological Society); Mr.
Christian Roimers, of Manchester; the Rev. W. M. Nowbould;
Miss Fanny J. Theobald; Mrs. Maltby; Miss Maltby; Mr.
Charles Hunt (Secretary to the Marylebone Association of Spirit¬
ualists); Miss Hunt; Dr. Mack; Mr. J. Selwood; Mr. Biggs;
Mr. Edmands; Mr. William H. Harrison; also several other
friends, including the lady medium whose experiences Mr.
Dunphy once placed on record in The Spiritualist in his article
entitled “ The Mysterious Man.”
The early part of the evening was devoted as usual to social
conversation, and refreshments were served in one of the rooms;
afterwards, when the proceedings took a more formal character,
the friends present assembled in the library, and Mr. Martin
Smith, on behalf of the National Association delivered the fol¬
lowing address:— /
WORDS OF WELCOME TO OUR RUSSIAN VISITORS.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, the president of the meeting, said:—
Ladies and gentlemen—We have met here to-night, not only to
enjoy the society of our friends, but with a purpose to carry out,
and a duty to fulfil. Our soiree is honoured to-night with the
presence of two most distinguished guests—Monsieur Alexander
Aksakof and Professor Butlerof. The purpose of our meeting
is to welcome these gentlemen on their arrival in England ; and
it is our pleasing duty to express to them, in warm and grateful
terms, our sense of /the great services they have rendered to
Spiritualism.
You are all of you acquainted with these gentlemen, at least
by name. As regards Professor Butlerof I will not say much,
for he is here to a certain extent incognito, and we are bound to
respect his desire for privacy. Suffice it to Say, that he is a
gentleman of high scientific attainments and reputation, and
that he has not hesitated to imperil that reputation by boldly
testifying to the truth ajjd reality of the phenomena of
Spiritualism.
Those among you who have read the article concerning
M. Aksakof in The Spiritualist of Sept. 24th, will have learnt
from its pages what he has done for Spiritualism. I will not
recapitulate at the present time the long list of his labours, but
I do not think I am exaggerating when I say that M. Aksakof
has, by his own individual energy, won for Spiritualism in
Russia a recognition which it has not yet received from any
other country. For years he has patiently laboured in the face
of misrepresentation and ridicule, and by his personal character,
also literary ability, has forced the science of Spiritualism into
recognition by the savants and literati of his own country. The
result has been, that the University of St. Petersburg has
actually appointed a scientific committee for the investigation of
he subject. All honour to the energy and patience which have
thus triumphed ; and honour also to the good sense which has
laid aside conventionalities and prejudices, and declared itself
prepared to examine and sift the evidence that may be offered.
Such a fact cheers and encourages us, but we must not let it
make us too sanguine. Granted that evidence is accumulated
by the said committee, which shall triumphantly demonstrate
the facts for which we contend, will the attitude of scientific men
in this country be thereby altered ? I fear not one whit! Nor
would it be if fifty universities declared their belief in the
strange facts that we set before them, for as I have said here
before, the phenomena of Spiritualism are to a material mind,
more especially when indurated by scientific acquirements, abso¬
lutely incredible, and such minds can be convinced by nothing
but individual personal experience. The good that may be done
is that some of our leading scientific men may be thus induced
to inquire into the facts which they now so placidly ignore. . I
shall be more than satisfied if this turns out to be the case.
M. Aksakof is now in this country with the object of seeking
out mediums for the purposes of this investigation ; this is in
itself no easy task, for he has but a very small number from
whom to select. We may almost count upon our fingers the
reliable physical mediums that we possess in England. We
can ill spare one of them, nevertheless, I do not grudge them
for such a purpose as this. I care not whether the truth is de¬
monstrated in this country or in Russia, and I think the true
interests of the cause are more likely to be served by the
orderly scientific investigation that will ho held there, than by
years of desultory seance holding among private individuals in
this country.
Whatever may be the out-turn of M. Aksakof’s mission here, I
should wish him to be supported and encouraged by our warm
sympathy. (Applause.) I should wish these gentlemen to feel
that not all in this country are strangers and alien to them,
but that we, at any rate, who have met here to-night to do
them honour—though few in number and feeble in influence—
we are linked to them and to their work by the same hopes and
the same aspirations as are cherished by themselves, and that,
with them, we look forward to the time when a purer light, a
more Divine wisdom, shall be vouchsafed to us, and shall render
possible a more widespread feeling of “ universal brotherhood ”
among men. (Applause.) Such, I earnestly believe, is the ten¬
dency of Spiritualism, and in this faith and hope we labour.
It may not be given to us, not even to our children, to see the
fruit of our labour. What matters it, so long as we use our
little span of life to the best of our power ? Let us work on
without looking for our reward, and leave it to our Divine
Father to “ shape our ends ” according to His inscrutable wisdom.
M. Aksakof, M. Butlerof, in the name of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, I bid you heartily welcome among
us. We (fompliment you on the work you have done, and wish
you God-speed in the labours you still have before you.
(Applause.)
Mr. Benjamin Coleman said : I have been asked to second the
words of welcome tendered to M. Aksakof and Professor
Butlerof by Mr. Martin Smith, and I regret that my health is
such that I am unable on this occasion to give expression to my
thoughts as I am accustomed to do. I have great pleasure in
bidding them welcome and in seconding Mr. Martin Smith’s
speech.
M. AKSAkOF ON SPIRITUALISM IN RUSSIA.
M. Aksakof then rose, amid loud applause, and addressed the
meeting in the French language. The following is a translation
of his speech:—
Permit me at the outset to thank you for the attention with
which you have been so kind as to honour me. I should have
been very pleaded if upon this occasion I had the power of
making known my sentiments in your own language, but un¬
happily I am not sufficiently acquainted with it to express my
meaning clearly, so perhaps you will allow me to say a few
words to you in French. It is natural that upon this occasion
I should not take up your time by speaking upon the subject of
Spiritualism in England, but that I should give you a few ideas
about the position of Spiritualism in Russia. I will commence
by speaking of the difficulties. The chief difficulties are that
we have not in Russia free trade in books, also that we have no
freedom of the press or liberty of speech.
The first difficulty is ‘caused by the circumstance that we
have in our country the institution known as the “ Censorship.”
All books upon political and theological subjects are submitted
to a regular examination, and all those which do not agree with
the point of view of the censorship, or are considered subversive
of the established order of orthodox doctrines, are placed upon
the list of prohibited works. Herein, then, is one great impedi¬
ment to the circulation of the Anglo-American literature of
188
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1875.
Spiritualism in Russia; and this explanation will serve to show
why so little is known about it in our country. The works of
Davis, Hare, Edmonds, Dale Owen, and others, are prohibited.
By some accident, which I am unable to explain, the works of
Allan Kardec have not been prohibited. Perhaps the authori¬
ties suppose that they come under the category of curiosities of
literature, or works of fiction, or they consider them to be of a
harmless nature, for they have done them the honour to place
them in the Index. This will explain to you why Russia knows
nothing of the subject except in connection with French Spiritism.
The Russians have not the least idea of the progress which
Spiritualism has made in England and America.
Now, I come to the second difficulty—that connected with the
press. Every book printed in Russia must be passed either by
the civil or ecclesiastical censors. The latter suppress all
which they consider not to be orthodox, and thus all the efforts
by which one may desire to make Spiritualism popular in my
country are rendered powerless. M. Boultin has translated all
the works of Kardec into the Russian language, but he was not
allowed to print them. I had begun to publish the works of
Swedenborg, but’ when I attempted to introduce Hare’s book, I
was not allowed to print the translation in Russia, so was
obliged to bring it out in Leipsic. The only book which the
Russian censorship has allowed to be printed in connection
with Spiritualism, has been a translation of Crookes’s, because
of its strictly scientific character.
A third difficulty consists in the circumstance that it is
impossible to give a public lecture in my country without tho
permission of the Government, and that no lecture on Spirit¬
ualism has ever been permitted, except the one given in 1871
by Mr. Home; that one was given without any public adver¬
tising, and in consequence of special protection on the part of
the authorities.
Added to all this, we have to fight against the antagonism of
public opinion, nourished by statements against Spiritualism
printed in the journals—and you know: very well their mode of
dealing with this subject. Putting all these things together,
you will have, I think, a clear idea of the difficulty of spreading
a knowledge of Spiritualism in Russia.
After what I have said it will seem strange to you that I
should proceed to speak of facilities in connection with Spirit¬
ualism in my country. Nevertheless, there exist a few which I
will point out.
The first facility is, that in spite of the outward intellectual
restraint to which we are subject, we have a greater inward
freedom of opinion than obtains, I think, in Europe or in
America. We know nothing of that rigid conservatism in
matters of religion and even of science, which is a distinguish¬
ing feature of the old European civilization. Our civilization
has but just "begun, and has no time-honoured traditions to
defend. In short, I may say that you are here the slaves of the
despotism of tradition, and of the despotism of public opinion
—things unknown to us. For this reason new ideas take root
amongst us much more quickly than with you.
This will explain the circumstance that two professors of our
University publicly testified to the reality of medial phenomena,
so soon as they themselves became convinced of the facts,
and that in consequence of their testimony, a scientific
committee was at once appointed to investigate the phenomena ;
whereas in England, notwithstanding the report presented by
Mr. Crookes to the Royal Society, and notwithstanding the
testimony of Wallace, Lord Lindsay, and other eminent savans,
the Royal Society has shown no inclination to pay the least
attention to the testimony of its own Fellows on this important
subject.
The second facility consists in the fact that the circle of
educated society is much more limited in Russia than in other
parts of the civilized world. Therefore every person belonging
to this circle is informed of all that passes in the domain of
intellect in Russia. We have but three or four daily news¬
papers of importance, only two or three monthly journals of any
value, which are sufficient to supply intellectual nutriment to
every corner of the Russian Empire. Thus it was that M.
Wagner’s article, which was published in a first-class monthly
review, immediately became known all over Russia, and pro¬
duced so great a sensation. It is true that the newspapers set
to work at once to throw ridicule upon it, but the public had
good sense enough to distinguish between the testimony of a man
of science and the revilings of anonymous newspaper critics. I
had a proof of this in my recent journey across Russia, where
in remote country places I was met by inquiries on tho subject
of Professor Wagner’s famous article.
The third facility consists in the fact that, in face of the diffi¬
culties which I have just recounted, Spiritualism in Russia can
only be developed and studied from a scientific point of view.
To consider it as a religious or social question is for the present,
at least, impossible. There remains, therefore, nothing but the
scientific standpoint; and this is of great importance, because if
the facts are once admitted they will become a branch of science,
and the study of Spiritualism will be in the hands of competent
persons, with little danger of the introduction of doctrines and
theories founded on premature conclusions, and leading to
disastrous consequences. When the facts are well established
by such means, then science, religion, and morality will be led
to true and natural deductions.
But the question remains—Will our committee be successful
in the studies it is about to undertake ? We are aware of the
ill-success which has attended such investigations in the past;
we know full well the delicate nature of the experiments; and
the difficulty is increased for us by the necessity of studying on
foreign ground, for we have no mediums at home, and up to the
present time we have not found any willing to follow our call.
I must hope, however, that all these difficulties may be over¬
come, and that the first step towards tho scientific investigation
of Spiritualism in Russia may not be altogether barren of good
and lasting results. (Applause).
PROFESSOR BUTLEROF ON SPIRITUALISM.
Professor Butlerof said—I should like to be allowed to add a
few words to the comprehensive statement of my friend M.
Aksakof. First, I would thank you sincerely for the kind and
cordial manner in which we have been received by you this
evening; and, secondly, I should like to define my position
towards the subject of Spiritualism. I look upon Spiritualism
as a branch of natural science, as much so as chemistry or
physiology. Spiritualism, like these, has its facts. All the facts
of nature belong to the domain of science, and must be studied
with the application of exact scientific methods. In England
you have already laid a firm foundation of experiment by means
of such methods; the most that we can do in Russia is to add
a few stones to the structure. We may fail in our first attempts;
should we do so, however* let us hope that there will be other
men of science who may pursue the investigation with success,
and who will not flinch from publicly making known the results
of their researches. Be that as it may, we know—myself and
my friend Professor Wagner—that we are dealing with real
facts, with actual phenomena.
Mr. H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law, said that he had been
called upon to reply to the very interesting statement made by
M. Aksakof. M. Aksakof had worked faithfully in the cause
of Spiritualism for years, and Professor Butlerof’s article certify¬
ing the reality of its phenomena was known everywhere
throughout Russia, because in that country they had
only four or five journals of any practical importance,
consequently an article printed in any one of them was
read throughout the length and breadth of the land.
He was sure that all English Spiritualists heartily thanked
M. Aksakof for establishing two Spiritualistic journals
on the Continent, one in Leipsic and the other in Paris.
Not only had he done this, but M. Aksakof had devoted his
life to the spreading of a knowledge of Spiritualism in Europe.
In England Spiritualists could do as they liked, and they en¬
countered nothing worse than a little sneering from the igno¬
rant ; but in Russia not only was there more serious opposition,
but the Aksakof family, like the Buccleuch family in England,
stood at the head of the tree ; consequently M. Aksakof, in
working for this unpopular subject, ran the risk of incurring
severe censure; he was, therefore, entitled to their warmest
thanks for his line of action. (Applause.) He (Mr. Jencken)
hoped that during his visit to England M. Aksakof would
obtain the mediums and witnesses he required to prove his
case. The phenomena were somewhat fugitive, and the mediums
were difficult to handle even in those cases where all the results
obtained through them were genuine. He hoped the company
would join with him in thanks and hearty good wishes to their
visitors for what they had done. (Applause).
Mr. Coleman : Before we part, ladies and gentlemen, I hope
you will join with me in a vote of thanks to the chairman.
(Applause).
Mr. Martin Smith: I thank you very much. (Applause).
Thus the formal proceedings of the soiree were brought to a
close; afterwards the members of the company amused them¬
selves in various ways.
Mr. Christian Reimers gave a great deal of amusement by
the clever manner in which he threw upon the wall, shadows
made by his fingers; he thus represented a quarrel between
Prince Metternich and Louis Phillippe, and actually succeeded
in showing the passions which animated them during their talk.
The company separated at about half-past ten o’clock.
Oct. 15, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
COE INQUIETTM.
I.
I KNOW not what I know,
Or what believe—
Things alter with the light in which they show,
They pass away and leave
The mind with mutable convictions,
And time with its restrictions
Dwarfs the rich seed that fain would heavenward grow.
II.
Great God, where is Thy truth,
Alone enduring ?.
Or dost Thou scan our errors without ruth,
And, still alluring
Our moth-like souls with a destructive light,
Thyself retreateth to the white
Radiance our eagerness in vain pursu’th ?
III.
Hast Thou declared Thy will
Beyond mistaking ?
Was that Thy light which shone on Zion's hill,
Or meteor breaking ?
In a long trail of many-coloured splendour,
Now vanishing, alas, with tender
Regret of eyes that seek it, vainly, still.
;iv.
Reveal Thyself once more 1
The world is old :
Thy language, warm and eloquent of yore,
Seems harsh and cold—
Our ears are hearkening for the sweeter speech,
The wisdom that shall surely teach
The Gospel of a Truth as yet untold.
V.
0 heart, so falsely sad,
Impatient beat!
Once more in old celestial glories glad,
With voices sweet
Of choral gladness o’er the happier time,
Earth shall renew her prime,
And break in flowers beneath the new Christ’s feet.
S.
©orreapnnence.
[Qr*at Jrtedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AND CONJURORS.
Sir,—Your correspondent Mr. W. A. Dixon, with.wliom I am
not personally acquainted, is the first Spiritualist who seems
inclined to endorse the statements I have more than once made
in your columns, that the so-called conjurors are not only adepts
in the art of legerdemain, but they are also very powerful
mediums, who find it much more profitable to pander to the
prejudices of the multitude by pretending to expose Spirit¬
ualism than by honestly taking their proper place in our ranks
as spiritual media.
If Mr. Dixon will refer to my last statement on this subject—
see Spiritualist of Dec. 18th, 1874—he will see that, approving
of the policy advocated by you, sir, in reference to public circles
in connection with the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, I said, “ that unless mediums can come well recom¬
mended . . . they had better be avoided; and all inquirers who
desire to study the psychological character of spirit-manifesta¬
tions should be recommended to visit Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke, who have gone on practising them with a perseverance
worthy of a better aim, and who are now, in my opinion, the best
of living mediums.” I should have said, for the production of
strong physical manifestations. This statement, often repeated
by me, has been met with the remark, “ but they themselves
say they are not mediums as if what they say should influence
the minds of any intelligent Spiritualist who sees what they do.
Why the question of conjuring imitators of Spiritual phe¬
nomena has not excited more attention iu this country, and the
imitators exposed, as they have been in America, arises no
doubt from the erroneous views which the editors of the Spiritual
journals in England have all taken upon this subject—a
unanimity which I believe does not exist on any other point in
connection with Spiritualism.
I hope, however, that Mr. Dixon’s letter will now open up the
whole question in your columns, and I trust it may take a
prominent place in the forthcoming conference of Spiritualists
in London. Benj. Coleman.
Upper Norwood, Oct. 8tb, 1875.
THE DOCTRINE OF REINCARNATION.
Sir,—I have just been reading the Rev. Fred. W. Robertson’s
translation of G-. E. Lessing’s Education of the Human Race
(Henry S. King and Co.). It closes with these words :—
“ Why should I not come back as often as I am capable of
acquiring fresh knowledge—fresh expertness ? Do I bring
away so much from one that there is nothing to repay the
trouble of coming back ?
“ Is this a reason against it, or because I forget that I have been
here already? Happy is it for me that I do forget. The re¬
collection of my former condition would permit me to make
only a bad use of the present. And that which even I must
forget now, is that necessarily forgotten for ever ?
“ Or is it a reason against the hypothesis that so much time
would have been lost to me ? Lost ? And how much then
should I miss ?—Is not a whole Eternity mine ? A. Vacher.
20, Great Marlborough-street, Oct. 7.
mediumship.
Sir,—Expecting to find in the same number as this letter a
much better report of the last most agreeable soiree at 38, Great
Russell-street than I could furnish, these lines are intended
only to express my pleasure at the spirit of earnest and pure
devotion to our cause represented by all the members of the
National Association so harmoniously drawn together. In the
meantime I perceived outside the Association such marked
signs of dissent and antagonism, more or less tinged with indi¬
vidual temper, especially among mediums, that I think whether
it is not a duty on the part of the Association to form a wall
against such disturbing influences. This should be taken into
consideration, not so much to guard against absolute danger,
but against annoyances which may grow into such if not checked
in time. Undoubtedly the Buguet affair has in one case posi¬
tively proved that mediums can and will adulterate the genuine
with shams, and has caused to some extent a reaction, which in
its present shape may be termed only a little confusion, and,
closely studied, might rather dissolve into mere amusement
rather than alarm. Without touching Upon any single points
which have produced this impression on my mind, I try to
express the effect by a simple practical illustration. Suppose
a total stranger to Spiritualism visits London to investigate for
himself. Having gone from one astonishing seance to the other,
and witnessed a complete round of all the marvels, he calls,
before leaving, in enthusiastic gratitude upon all the mediums.
Here he has, in too many cases, to answer the perplexing ques¬
tion from each, “ Are you quite sure that this medium (each
time the one just mentioned by him) is positively reliable ? ”
Consequently, when the hunted investigator finds himself out
of the maze, he plunges back with renewed vigour into former
prejudices, until he is perhaps inclined to listen to evidence
given by a qircle at his own home. The mystery of the pheno¬
mena is quite enough to digest in itself, but the mystery of
mediums and their capricious oddities offer difficulties of
another kind. The former can be tested against physical laws,
which are fixed, the latter have to do battle with human nature,
which seems unfathomable, and the study of which may form
one of the answers to “ What is the good of Spiritualism ? "
C. Reimers.
Manchester, Oct. 3th, 1875.
MODERN NECROMANCT.
Sir,—This is the title of a somewhat lengthy article in the
British Quarterly Rexiew for October, which commences by a
review of the published works on Spiritualism of Mr. Crookes,
Dr. Asa Mahan, Mr. Wallace, and others, and then proceeds to
draw a parallel between ancient necromancy, as classified and
condemned in the Book of Deuteronomy and elsewhere in the
Hebrew Scriptures, and the practices of those now called
mediums. While admitting that “all patient, candid, and
impartial investigators will accompany Mr. Crookes to the point
that certain phenomena are genuine,” the writer shelters himself
from any obligation to pursue the subject behind the wall of
his own theory—after warning others against “ the discussion
of hypotheses as a method of attaining truth ”—that the “ identi¬
fication of modern necromancy and the invocation of the familiar
Spirit in old times,” are “ calculated to set the mind at rest ” on
the “ positive impropriety and possible danger of such pur¬
suits.”
The various species of sorcery in vogue among the ancients are
detailed in an interesting manner, and awaken the desire that
the writer would bring the same lucidity and power of classifi¬
cation to bear on the “ objective ” facts of modem necromancy
which he has lavished on the study of second-hand reports of
t
190 ^HE SHIRITtlALIST. Oct. 15, 1875,
seances held two or three thousand years ago. Should he then
favour you with accounts of his personal experiences, resulting
from a spirit of inquiry as bold and yet as chaste as his rhetoric,
the author of Modern Necromancy would perhaps no longer
“ blush to name Spiritual journals in the pages of the British
Quarterly."
Wittingly or unwittingly, the writer has touched a chord
which thrills to the very heart of the modern movement. He
excuses the rites of the augur, the herbalist, and the sorcerer,
on the plea thatx they “ were inquirers into nature, and, com¬
mencing with a vague reliance on the aid of invisible power,
were unconsciously laying the basis of the education of the
naturalist, the anatomist, and the physician. . . . From the
furnace of the alchemist has been drawn forth the retort of the
chemist. ... In a word, in the pursuit of natural magic the
human mind has unawares advanced into the clearer light of
natural philosophy.” Exactly so does the student of modern
spiritual phenomena look forward to the time when his facts,
won by hard toil and patient study, furnished, it may be, also
“ unconsciously ” by ignorant media, shall be collated and
arranged in scientific order. They will then, in the “ clearer
light ” of further scientific research and religious freedom of
thought, form the basis of a more complete system of philoso¬
phy—diviner, because more natural, than any single thinker,
building on partial truths alone, has yet been able to present to
the world. X.
CO-OPEKATION OP SPIRITUALISTS IN REFORMS.
Sir,—Might it not be useful if Spiritualists lent their
sympathy and aid to the cause of funeral reform, at this time
advocated by Christian churches ? Again, would it not be well
if Spiritualists were to sign a paper expressing approval of the
Church of England temperance movement, at the head of which
is her gracious Majesty the Queen? The education of women
is a subject about which much is said, but surely the practical
education of women in scientific cooking, and in other domestic
occupations is not yet insisted upon sufficiently. Reform in
female costume, too, is needful, the fluctuating ideas being
grotesque, ruinous, and indicative of deficiency in modest self-
respect. Spiritualists should set a good example in the matter of
female costume, for what is more absurd than that women should
simply follow the lead of tradespeople, who have no trained
perception of beauty, and are interested in getting them to
change their 'dresses as often as possible. On this head
English ladies show great weakness and ignorance, and set a
very bad example to their servants. Hopeful.
dr. wylde’s offer OF £100.
Sir,—Allow me a few words anent Dr. Wylde’s offer of £100
to the clairvoyant who may be successful in reading his sealed
letters, or the one through whose mediumship the pencil may be
made to write under a glass cover. The tests are certainly
clever, but phenomena equal to these have been witnessed by
not a few investigators. To ascribe to legerdemain the oc¬
currence of the various physical manifestations, and the reitera¬
tion of voice, habits, manners, and peculiarities of deceased
persons utterly unknown to the medium, is certainly not to be
wondered at in one not accustomed to witness these things.
But those who have witnessed these occurrences, and held the
mediums, and arranged the rooms and articles therein, know,
as certainly as it is possible to know from the senses, that the
occurrence of these phenomena is not ascribable to legerdemain,
or any other trickery on the part of the medium. Then sup¬
posing Dr. Wylde’s particular tests are not accepted and com¬
plied with, are men who have seen and tested in other ways for
themselves, to throw up all previous belief in the genuineness
of the phenomena, and say their eyes have been “ the fools of
the other senses ? ” Surely not.
About a fortnight ago a gentleman of my acquaintance visited
a clairvoyant, and among other questions asked:
“Will you go back some fifty years into Virginia, and tell me
of a person who was living there at that time, and who was a
relative of mine ? ”
The answer was, “ I see a house (minutely described) and
three men there; one is writing out a will.”
This was quite correct both as to the number of the men and
the will, and other particulars given.
Q. “Will you now go to a house in street, in Rother¬
ham, Yorkshire, and tell me what you see there ? ”
A. “ I see an old lady in the sitting-room.”
Both the lady and the sitting-room were described correctly.
Q. “ Will you go to street, Manchester ? ”
A. “ I see a lady coming down the stairs. Throe children
are playing in the kitchen.”
Q. “ Describe those children. Are they boys or girls ? ”
A. Two girls and one boy. The boy is very light com-
plexioned and has light hair; the two girls are darker.”
All this was just as described.
Q. “ As you have told me of the mother and the children, will
you tell me now of the father ? ”
A. “ The father is not at home, he is at ? ”
This was known also to be the case. It will be seen that
“ leading questions ” were not put for the purpose of eliciting
the correct answers. Besides the questious were put by the
gentleman inquiring, and not by another person acquainted with
the medium or clairvoyants. Perhaps Mr. H. G. Atkinson may
consider this case worthy of being added to his list, as, the
more numerous the facts, the stronger the argument. I am
not here urging the belief in spirits, but am pleading for the
genuineness of the phenomena, whatever may be the nature of
the force employed, apart from the legerdemain or trickery of
the medium. ' Clericus.
Leicester.
[Was anything told the inquirer which had never been in his own
mind ?—Ld.]
The “Banner of Light.”—Hitherto the Banner of Light
(Boston, U.S.) has not been easily obtainable in this country,
except by regular readers, the amount of whose subscription is
15s. a year. But, for the convenience of the public, arrange¬
ments have been made at the Spiritualist newspaper branch
office, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O., whereby single copies of
current numbers of the Banner, of Light may be obtained
at any time, price sixpence each. ’
Mr. Joy in America.—Mr. Joy has favoured us with some
more of his experiences in America, and has discovered an
attempt to impose upon him and others with sham spirit-
photographs. This attempt was made on the part of a new
medium, whose antecedents proved, upon inquiry, to be of the
same character as the proceedings which Mr. Joy detected.
He has also furnished us with valuable information as to the
reliability of certain transatlantic writers on Spiritualism, for
there are some who can write specious tales, but whof are
known to their acquaintances as thoroughly credulous and un¬
reliable.
Mr. Morse’s Return to England.—Mr. J. J. Morse, the
celebrated English trance-medium, who has recently made a
long and prosperous lecturing tour in the United States, is
expected to reach Liverpool in the s.s. Baltic on Tuesday or
Wednesday next. His friend, Mr. John Selwood, of The Spirit¬
ualist newspaper office, will be at Liverpool to meet him, so
also will Mrs. Morse and some Liverpool friends. Mr. Morse is
open to receive engagements to lecture in any part of this
country, so friends who desire to hear his familiar voice once
more should write to him at once, addressing their letters to
his private residence, Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E.
Entertainment at the Cavendish Rooms.—Owing to the
pressure of news in our last number there has been delay in the
publication of a notice of an entertainment given last Wednes¬
day week at the Cavendish Rooms in aid of Dr. Sexton’s Sunday
services. An excellent evening’s amusement was provided and
the whole passed off with credit to the performers and pleasure
to the listeners. The following are the pieces which were given:
—A pianoforte duet, “ The Grand March,” from Le Propliete, by
the Misses Clarke; a glee, “ Hark the Lark,” by the choir, in
connection with the Sunday services; “ The Island of the Scots,”
a recitation, by Mr. Thomas Menzies; duet, “Home to our
mountains,” by Mrs. Russell and Miss Sexton ; song, “ Weary,”
by Miss Malvina Claxton ; song, “ Mary O’Moore,” by Mr. Wil¬
liams ; recitation, “ Oceur de Lion at the Bier of his Father,”
by Miss Sexton; “ The Spirit’s Song,” by Mrs. Russell (pupil of
Madame Sainton Dolby) ; recitation, “ Over the Hills from the
Poor House,” Mr. Albert G. Ogan; song, “ A Leaf from the
Spray,” by Miss Florence Lovell; Chinese plate dancing, by Mr.
G. Sexton ; a pianoforte duet, “ The Great Globe Quadrilles,” by
the Misses Clarke; a glee, “ Awake iEolian Lyre,” by the choir;
recitation, “ The Last Man,” by Dr. Sexton; song, “ Will he
come ? ” by Mrs. Russell; song, “ Birdie,” by Miss Lovell; reci¬
tation, “ The Railway Chase,” by Mr. T. Monzies ; song, “ The
Blind Girl to her Harp,” by Miss Sexton; solo violin, “Auld
Robin Gray,” by Mr. R. Mott; song, “In Shadow Land,” by
Miss M. Claxton; recitation, “ The Battle of Sempach,” by Mr.
F. M. Sexton ; burlesque sketch, “ Ton minutes at Richardson’s,”
by Mr. A. G. Ogan; and a glee, “ Now Pray we for our
Country,” by the choir. Accompanist, Miss Florence Lovell.
191
Oct. 15, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST-
^rabtnctal fletos.
PORTSMOUTH.
The Rev. Thomas Colley, curate of Portsmouth, sends us the
following: “Dr. Monck has been down here. I have had
several sittings with him, and can report unanimous satisfaction
on the part of all who have participated with me in the pleasure of
seeing the wonderful and convincing manifestations that attend
his spiritual ministrations.
“ On Thursday last we sat at Yentnor. An editor was present,
and a favourable report of the seance appeared in the Isle of
Wight Express next day. The power was very strong. The
medium was levitated, and placed on the literary gentleman’s
shoulders. A dining-room chair was threaded on ,his arm while
he held the hands of the medium, whoso “ control ” particularly
requested the gentleman in question to verify with the hand
disengaged, that nothing was there before the power came that
made the editor’s arm pass through the substance of the chair,
or the chair through that gentleman’s arm. A length of board
was placed on the table with some blunt nails, and a hammer.
I held the medium’s loft hand, and pushed it toward the
medium’s right hand, which was held by the lady in whose
house we were sitting. Thus I had both Dr. Monck’s hands in
my keeping, and can answer personally for the genuineness of
the test conditions. While in this position the nails were very
loudly hammered into the board by some process of spirit
carpentry. The board also was split into two pieces, and the
larger half hurled across the room, the smaller part being found
with two nails driven right through it, and yet the cloth of the
table was not punctured or torn, or the table itself in the least
scratched.
“ During the first part of this seance and in full gaslight, Dr.
Monck threw his handkerchief down upon the table. In a short
space this was seen to rise and fall as though some animate
object were underneath it. I placed my hand upon it, and felt
what seemed to be a human hand there. After some few minutes
this seemed to melt away, the respiratory movement ceased, and
the pulse-like fluttering of the handkerchief was still. Dr.
Monck then placed his hand upon it again for a moment, and
the instant he withdrew it, I placed mine on the spot where the
medium had placed his, and once more felt the same throbbing
life-like object there as at first. This occurred repeatedly, and
each member of the circle placed a hand upon the handker¬
chief and experienced themselves what I have endeavoured to
describe. Various spirit-lights and luminous hands appeared,
and the names of departed friends were given in letters of fire
visible to all. Samuel, Dr. Monck’s control, gave us striking
proof of the presence of invisible friends, telling us their
names, all of which proved correct, and in several cases very
strangely and unexpectedly correct. In my own case it was
simply .marvellous. T wo of our spirit friends, Peter and John
King, who manifest at our Portsmouth circle, came and spoke
with the direct voice, addressing me the same as they do
through our own medium here, whom, by the way, Dr. Monck
had never seen. But I cannot tell one half of what took place
—all under the most stringent test conditions. We began to
sit about ten o’clock, and could not get our various spirit
companions to leave us till half-past one.
“ On Friday we had a sitting with Dr. Monck at our harmonic
Portsmouth circle. He called on mo hurriedly on his way
thither, and, waiting for five minutes for the tram-car, sat with
me in the twilight, in company with two ladies and a gentleman
whom he had never seen before, and indeed could but dimly see
then in the gathering gloom. Raps came freely at once, and
the fender, several yards off, made a clatter as though it were
going to get on the table, which another succeeded in doing the
same evening. Dr. Monck was not in my house on this occa¬
sion five minutes. He had the previous day simply called at
my house for a moment on his way to the pier. Yet on this
occasion he had not been in the house three minutes ere he
gave us three splendid tests. The two ladies and the gentle-
man referred to sat as they were sitting in the dusk before Dr.
Monck called—the gentleman and one of the ladies at the
dining-room table, the other lady in the deeper shade of a
recess near the window. Dr. Monck and I took our seats at the
table just as we happened to stand, and, instantly with the
raps, Dr. Monck said that some spirit was present of the name
of Bellamy. This had been the maiden name of one, of the
ladies whom Dr. Monck had never seen before, and in whose
company he had not been three minutes. A moment after he
said that another spirit was present who gave the name of
Gibbs. This was the name of a married daughter, deceased, of
the elderly gentleman (his name is Collins), whom Dr. Monck
had never seen before, and whose acquaintance was of the ripe
growth of three minutes and some odd seconds. The third
name given was E. Oopson, and Elizabeth was the name of one
of the ladies (a widow) and also the name of her late husband’s
mother. Considering that this was the most impromptu, and
unexpected, and hurried sitting possible, I think it a perfect
proof of the great powers of Dr. Monck in clair-audience.
Another name was given, but the noise of the tram-car caused
us hastily to jump up, and hurry out of the house to catch it.
“ We then met our friends at the private residence of a friend.
The manifestations were of a most startling and powerful cha¬
racter. I again can personally answer for the integrity of the
medium and the genuineness of the test conditions. While I
held Dr. Monck’s hands, I felt a bodily presence in the corner
of the room, behind my chair, as solid and substantial as that
of any mortal in the flesh. This purported to be the mate¬
rialised form of an old and dear friend of mine, who passed
away some two years ago; and I had several proofs that it was
so on the part of this mysterious power, which I am positive
was extra from the medium, who by no possible means could
have done while I held him what this abnormal presence did.
This force took my chair from me and placed it on the table,
and tried to lift me with it also. Then it placed the fender
on the table, and the chair on which the medium was sitting,
with other things. It must be remembered that I was hold¬
ing both Dr. Monck’s hands when these powerful manifes¬
tations were in process. About this time our own medium
was entranced, and her controls and Dr. Monck’s conversed
together for some minutes, while every now and again direct
spirit voices from the sphere of each medium greeted us, and
joined in the general conversation of the circle. Dr. Monck’s
guides then left him, and, coming out of trance, he greatly
enjoyed the wit and humour of our spirit friends through our
own medium. They were with us in full force ; Edward, Peter,
John, and others, and the sweet voice of our dear sister Alice.
At our next sitting. with Dr. Monck other marvels transpired.
Tests of a most convincing character were afforded, and several
of the circle were specially favoured in this respect. A luminous
hand and other lights were seen by all to float about far from
the medium when the most exacting conditions were imposed. I
held a finger of the medium’s right hand between my teeth, and
an officer of Her Majesty’s ship Monarch held a finger of the
medium’s left hand between his teeth, but it mattered not, the
musical instruments still played and floated about the room
without let or hindrance, touching in turn each member of the
circle. The musical box was wound up, set going, and stopped
by our spirit friends just as we made requests, showing their
power over the delicate mechanism of the instrument, to set it
off and stop it, at half a note.
“ Towards the close of the sitting the medium’s control called
for a light, so that we might see Dr. Monck in a state of trance,
fill his mouth with water, the empty tumbler being given into
the keeping of one of the circle. In an instant the direct voice
of Peter was heard in full power ; and Samuel and Edward, and
many of our old friends came and talked to us under the opera¬
tion of this severe test. A boatswain’s whistle was piped long
and loud ; ‘ Ship Ahoy! ’ was shouted in a stentorian manner,
and much sailor talk transpired with this voice, which was
manifestly not the medium’s, for after some ten or fifteen
minutes intercourse with these various spirit powers, a light
was called for, and Dr. Monck, who had now come out of trance,
ejected from his mouth the half-glass of water his guide had
controlled him in his unconscious state to drink; and this
terminated the seance. It is to bo noted that the medium’s hands
were held the whole time, so that there was no possibility of
Dr. Monck swallowing the water, and then at the end filling his
mouth again from a private bottle carried in the pocket. ’Cute
cavillers may think this, but I have anticipated them, and confi¬
dently affirm that with the conditions imposed, this was an utter
impossibility.”
THE NATURE OF SPIRIT HANDS—MANIFESTATIONS IN A CHURCH.
In the course of a circular letter sent us by Mr.
William S. Watson, Assistant-Paymaster to H.M.S. Monarch,
dated Portsmouth, 5th October, 1875, the writer says of one of
Dr. Monck’s seances in Portsmouth: —“ My friend and shipmate,
Mr. Davis, who held both of Dr. Monck’s hands, informs me that
the musical box came swiftly from the other end of the room
(judging from the music, which was playing nearly all the time)
and settled on his head. It left again, and, after whirling about,
came and rested (on nothing ?) in front of his mouth. He raised
his hand, still holding the medium’s, and with his arms felt 4all
round the box. He encountered no resistance. Again, an arm
clasped him round the neck. He disengaged his hand from the
medium’s, and passed it along'the arm to where he expected to
192
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1875.
find the shoulder. The result was this:—‘The arm was not
attached to anything,’ and he experienced very much what the
ancients thought they would experience if they walked to the
end of the world. He tumbled over, or at least his hand
did. He tried again, but the result was the same ; the arm was
apparently growing out of the surrounding atmosphere, and
ended in matter that was impalpable to mortal touch.
“ A test of the most convincing nature was proposed and
adopted on Sunday evening last. The invisible intelligences
present in the room having told us that they would speak to us
without using the vocal organs of the medium, were asked to
allow the medium’s mouth to be filled with water, so that it
would be a matter of certainty that the voices would be direct.
This they. agreed to, and it was consequently done. A short
time elapsed; a gurgling was heard in the medium’s threat,
and I thought the experiment was about to prove a failure,
when suddenly voices.were heard, and a shout proceeded appa¬
rently from the very centre of the table of “ Ship Ahoy ! ” This-
was followed by a shrill and startling blast from what seemed
to be a boatswain’s whistle. Apparently the invisibles did a
great deal to awaken what little belief we were born with, and
which has not been knocked out of us by contact with the
sneering and sceptical atoms we meet in our fight with the
world. They imitated the barking of dogs, crowing of cocks,
and buzzing of a bee.
“ Of course, as we were in the dark, everybody’s eyes might
have 'been shut, but it would take a great deal to make me
believe they were. After this the lamp was lighted, and the
medium was permitted to empty his mouth of the water.
“ I will wind up by relating a rather curious occurrence
which took place at St. Mary’s Church on Sunday evening last,
before we proceeded to hold the seance. Dr. Monck was pre¬
sent. The Rev. T. Colley was preaching a sermon on the
natural and spiritual bodies. I was listening intently to the
speaker, when suddenly I heard three distinct knocks, as if
some one was applauding what was being said. The knocks
continued at intervals for quite half-an-hour, sometimes three,
sometimes one. They first, appeared to come from a far corner
of the church, then from the gallery and the middle of the
building, and afterwards behind me, close to where Dr. Monck
was sitting. They grew fainter and fainter, and then ceased..
Mr. Colley tells me that he was so wrapped up in his sermon
that he did not notice them; but the poor old pew-opener had a
lively time of it. She went to the doors several times to try
to find out who was producing the knocks, but gave up at
last, and declared, when asked after the service was over, that
they appeared to follow her in the most incomprehensible
manner.”
SOUTHPORT.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS IN SOUTHPORT.
The short labours of Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, assisted by Mr.
Martheze and Mr. Lament, have already produced marked re¬
sults in Southport. Three spirit circles at least have since been
formed in this town for the investigation of Spiritualism. Fur¬
ther, the local press is assuming a more friendly tone. Recently
a circle was held at the house of Mr. Graham, 100, William-
street. About eighteen sitters were present; amongst them
Mr. Marthezo, Mr. Dufort, Mr. J. S. Griffitjis, Mr. and Mrs. R.
Dodgson, a local trance medium; also a gentleman from
Macclesfield and his two sons, who were the mediums, lads from
ten to twelve years of age. Mr. J. Coates, of Liverpool, was also
present. The circle was arranged by instructions given through
the writing mediumship of one of the boys. An ordinary kitchen
table stood in the centre of the room ; upon it were placed a large
musical box, four small bells, some writing paper, and a pencil.
The mediums were secured firmly in chairs with handkerchiefs,
and at a given signal the light was put out. Some fair mani¬
festations took place, such as the moving of light objects from
place to place, the ringing of bells, and so oh. The mediums
were then tied back to back with rope. The passage was called
into requisition as a cabinet, and the two boys were placed
therein. They were in the cabinet four minutes when the door
was opened and the rope thrown into the circle. The time
taken in tying them by two persons had been eight minutes.
This concluded the physical seances. Mr. Coates was asked to
give a few mesmeric experiments and found nearly all in the
room more or less susceptible to influence.
'That earnest worker, Mr. James Coates, of Liverpool, has
been lecturing on Spiritualism and Mesmerism several times
this week at the Peel Institute, Accrington.
M. Aksakof has been to Newcastle to see the manifestations
through the local mediums.
Professor A. Butlerof, who has been staying in London
during the last fortnight, left on Saturday for St. Petersburg.
Passed to Spirit Life,—On the 9th October, at 18, Queen
Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, London, George Tapp, in the
sixty-ninth year of his age.
The illuminated address to Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan is now on
view at the offices of the National Association of Spiritualists,
88, Great Russell-street, where subscriptions to the testimonial
will also be received. The ornamentation of the address is a
work of high artistic merit, and quite unique of its kind.
Presents to the National Association.—The Rev. W.
Whitear has presented the Library of the National Association
of Spiritualists with a copy of the famous so-called Ninth Bridge-
water Treatise, by Charles Babbage, inventor of the calculating
engine, in which the author combats the idea that the pursuits
of science are unfavourable to religion. Several German
pamphlets have also been received from Dr. Grtinhut, Vice-
President of the Spiritual Society at Buda-Pesth,
Spiritualistic Organisation in Great Britain.—Since tiro
British National Association of Spiritualists raised the standard
of friendly union among Spiritualists, and advocated properly
elected representatives, also accounts kept and published in
ordinary business fashion, the progress has been most satisfac-
factory. During the nine months of the present year which
have just elapsed, no less than 138 new members have been
elected, and the majority of these have been persons of influ¬
ence and intelligence. The utmost harmony prevails among the
whole of the members of the National Association; indeed,
since the time when it was resolved to ignore theological con¬
troversy altogether, there has been no symptom of anything in
the shape of a quarrel.
Allan Kardec’s Speculations.—Signor Damiani writes to
us from Naples, Oct. lOfcb, as follows : “ I shall not fail to send
you occasionally notes on Spiritualism in Italy. Some new and
startling mediums have lately turned up here, and through
them we have been having novel and very extraordinary phy¬
sical manifestations. Lot me congratulate you on the attitude
you maintain in the controversy on reincarnation. You have
given your opinion candidly against that doctrine, but you
have allowed others to express theirs in its favour, showing
both true liberal principles and understanding of the duties of
those who assume the guidance of public opinion. If the advice
of a Spiritualist who has had long, assiduous, and most varied
experience in Spiritualism may be of any service to you, con¬
tinue in your impartial attitude on the subject of reincarnation,
which will occupy the Spiritual press of England for a long
time, and to a great extent; for the reincarnationists will stick
to their doctrine with as much tenacity as to Spiritualism
itself, looking upon it as to the head of the apparently ruffled
skein of God’s justice.”
Dalston Spiritual Society.—At the ordinary monthly
session of the Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, held at its Rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
London, on Tuesday evening last, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen in
the chair, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Mrs. Corner, Mr. J. Tozeland,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, and Mr. Thomas Blyton were present.
Letters were read from the Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon, Miss
Fowler, and Mr. Frank Herne. The cash accounts were sub¬
mitted and passed. The report of the alleged appearance of a
ghost at Hackney Wick having been brought up from the
previous meeting, and no fresh evidence having been obtained,
the matter dropped. A notice of resignation from Mr. R. P.
Matthews was “ accepted with regret.” Mr. Charles Lee Was
elected an ordinary member. An offer bv Mr. Christian Reimers
to prepare a paper upon “ Absurdities of Opponents to Spirit
ualism ” was accepted, to be read by him on his presence in
London at some meeting to be arranged. A committee was
appointed, consisting of Mr. T. Wilks, Mr. J. Tozeland, and Mr.
Thos. Blyton to arrange for the customary anniversary meeting.
A subscription circular for sale of the forthcoming work, Angelic
Revelations on the Origin, Ultinlation, and Destiny of the Human
Spirit, now in course of being edited by a life member of the
Association, was approved. The attention of the Council having
been directed to the 1875 Conference of Spiritualists, Mr. Thos,
Blyton was appointed to represent the Association at such
Conference. The hon. secretary reported that Mr. Tozeland had
placed in his custody some photographic apparatus; a “ Spiritual
Photographic Committee ” was accordingly appointed, comprising
Mrs. Wood, Messrs. R. P. Tredwen, A. E. Lovell, J. Tozeland,
and T. Blyton, with power to invite the co-operation of other
suitable members.
Oct. 15, 1875
THE SPIEITUALIST,
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG f, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SAM AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER,
88, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in ‘Woburn-street).
ALL LETTEE8 TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professionai medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, P.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s "Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epea
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W, Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Leo, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Science!and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit’ and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600-pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
Sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to tho
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
■ clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says :—"Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all tho
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
•f the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, hefore educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientififc ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his nfe
on earth.Best edition. Gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition, 7s. Bd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand- •
ingin New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances'at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at theirseances, are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. Od.
PSALMS. OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. fid. j,
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. , By Eobert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. 0. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. ’3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. fid.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. Gd.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. Gd.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd. ■
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. Gd.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. Gd.
ROUND THE. WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. Gd.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM,
7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM,' by Emma Hardiuge.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. Gd.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An. interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Medium ship
of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. Gd.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribe*
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P
Barkas
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by tho Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. ‘Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Art*
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “Family Herald.” (2 Yols.) 10*
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON IfAVIS,
ThePoughkeepsie Seer.” s s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .• .150
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Hannonia . . . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ' . • . . . . .76
The Seer. „ lit, . ; . . 7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. .. • • • • i .76
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . , } .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . . . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . - . .40
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . , • .76
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . . . .70
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . . , , 4 0
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . . . .4 0
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age. . . . . .40
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . . . .30
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion. . , . . .40
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . . . .80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .'.66
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained . • * • • .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . ..60
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims ... ..26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , .- . " . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . • i ■ , . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) «. . . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . . . . .. .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . . .76
Travels of Fan-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a. n. and 618 a. n.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trim Coll., Cam. . . . . . . . . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre¬
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge.D.D. . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Kobert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of Amenca at Constantinople . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . , . . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
N etherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS. Special edition
for Schools . . . . . . .10
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMS HIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought. Od,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich: 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conan t.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
fPHE ISLINGTON PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION
X. FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. Mrs. Bullock and other healers in attendance daily from 11 a.m.
till 2 p.m., Sundays from 11 a.m. till 1 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, prin¬
cipals.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Oasson, James Ooates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Hr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditoi's.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
• 2.—By engaging in the education of children' and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ G.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
,. 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
,, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
,, 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Argelio Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13 —The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerniog the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; and
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
Howto mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granviile-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM is discussed
in the number of the NONCONFORMIST for Wednesday, Sep¬
tember 15th, in an elaborate Essay reviewing all the recent works on the
subject, and referring to late personal experiences. By a Man of Science.
Sent by post on the receipt of Fivepence. 18, Bouverie-street, Fleet-
street, E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.O.
