A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREJSf Of THE J3C1EJMCE /iND ETHICf OF fPJF^ITU^IfM.
[EEGISTEEED FOK TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 36.—(VOL. IL, No. 8.) LONDON 1 THUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1872. PuMonth ;°Pricl
PROFESSOR MAPES’S EXPERIENCES IN
SPIRITUALISM.
The American papers, when announcing the death,
some time since, of Professor James J. Mapes, “ the
model farmer,” spoke in the most eulogistic terms of
his great genius and high literary and scientific attain-
xfients. “ He was a permanent member of the New
York Lyceum, honorary member of the Scientific
Institute of Brussels, the Royal Society of St. Peters-
burgh, and the Geographical Society of Paris; and one
of our state universities conferred upon him the degree
of LL.D.
“ As a farmer Professor Mapes has given hundreds of
useful discoveries to the world. The subsoil plough
and the rotatory digger and spade, now in such common
use, are his inventions, while his advice was sought and
accepted in regard to chemical manures all over the
country. He organised the Franklin Institute at
Newark, and became its first lecturer ; and so early as
1844 he was President of the Mechanic’s Institute at
New York.
“ Professor Mapes was one of. the most agreeable of
men, possessing great geniality and no small share of
wit and humour, and was gifted with an extraordinary
flow of language,” &c. &c.
Such is one among many complimentary notices of
Professor Mapes which appeared in the American
journals soon after his death but we have sought in
vain to find any mention of his being an advanced and
confirmed believer in Spiritualism. This fact, however,
is furnished in Mr. B. Coleman’s American Spiritualism,
from which excellent book we make the following
extract:—
“ On the first day of our acquaintance, Judge Ed¬
monds did me the favour.of introducing me to his
friend, Professor James J. Mapes, who, as a chemist,
holds a leading position in the scientific world both in
America and Europe. He is a man of varied attain¬
ments, possessing a brilliant intellect, and extraordinary
conversational powers. He has mastered, after most
careful study and examination, the philosophy of Spiri¬
tualism, and would help, were he to publicly identify
himself with the subject, almost more than any other
man, to inculcate and spread its truth and doctrines.
“ Professor Mapes’ history in connexion with Spiri¬
tualism teaches an instructive lesson, and answers in
itself two of the most prominent questions which have
been put by its opponents in this country; namely—
If Spiritualism be worth consideration, how is it that
no man eminent in science has ventured to investigate
its claims and expound its philosophy ? And, admit-
• ting the reality of the phenomena—Oui 'bono ? Well,
the answer is that Professor Mapes, of New York, like
his compeer, the late Dr. Hare, of Philadelphia, a man
of science, undertook the investigation .several years
ago, with an entire disbelief in its reality, and a deter¬
mination to expose ‘ the delusion ;’ and, like Dr. Hare,
he was driven step by step from his original position,
ultimately converted to a full belief in spirit inter¬
course, and, as a consequence, to a belief in a life here¬
after, which he had previously denied. Can men, in
the face of such facts, consistently go on asking what is
the good of it; and asserting that if it is really true, it
must be all of the devil ?
“ The Professor is largely engaged in agriculture,
and has a farm at Newark, New York, where his family
reside; whilst his professional pursuits oblige him to
remain a great portion of his time in New York. He
was (as he told me), a materialist, up to the age of
forty-five, and in the early start of the modern manifes¬
tations, now thirteen years ago, he set to work earnestly
to investigate Spiritualism, without saying a word on
the subject to his family. Shortly after, he discovered
that one of his daughters was also engaged in a some¬
what similar way. She had in fact become a writing
medium, without knowing it. On one of his usual
weekly visits to his family,9this daughter said,< Father,
I want to show you something very curious. Don’t
laugh at me, here are pages that from time to time I
have been influenced to write, without my will or my
mind being engaged in the work. It has been going
on for weeks, and I should not have named it now, but
that I saw in the Tribune newspaper yesterday, that
others had been similarly influenced; and it is said to
be the work of spirits. I want to know the meaning
of it.’ ‘ Curious to obtain evidence from such a source,
though anxious to avoid explanation and encourage¬
ment, the Professor asked her to take a pen and let
him see what she meant. Her hand was moved ex¬
citedly, and she at once rapidly dashed off a long mes¬
sage purporting to be from the spirit of his father. The
Professor said, f If there is any meaning in this I
should like, if possible, to have some proof of identity.”
Miss Mapes’ hand again wrote, ‘ You may recollect that
I gave you, among other books, an Encyclopaedia; look
at page 120 of that book, and you will find my name
written there, which you have never seen.’ The book
alluded to was with others in a box at the warehouse
in town. On his arrival in town. Professor Mapes
opened the case which had been fastened up for twenty-
seven years, and there, to his great astonishment, he
found as described his father’s name written on the
identical page 120.
** This incident awakened a new interest in him, and
he accordingly determined to conduct a serious investi¬
gation, and at once secured the services of Mrs. Brown,
the eldest daughter in the Fox family—a well-known
and very reliable medium of great power. His next
step was to obtain a party of friends to join him, which
was, however, a very difficult task. He first invited
his son-in-law, Mr. Dodge, a Member of the Senate,
who laughed at the request, said it was too absurd, and
hoped the Professor was not going to sacrifice his time
and his fame to such a delusion. And in this way he
was met by others, until at length making it a personal
favour and to oblige him, he got a party of ten to¬
gether ; having, as he said, purposely selected one half
of positive minds who would believe in nothing, and the
other half of negative minds who might be induced to
believe in anything. They agreed to meet every Monday
evening for twenty sittings, and up to the nineteenth
evening they had not elicited anything sufficiently
satisfactory to carry conviction, or to be worth record¬
ing ; but on the twentieth evening some very curious
and striking phenomena were displayed. The spirits
who purported to be present gave peculiar names, such
as Pierre Wilding, Deliverance, &c., insisting, against
the belief of those present, that they were their ances¬
tors, and indicating in the most definite manner their
relationship. Upon subsequent inquiry, each of these
statements was verified, and a previously hidden page
of family history being thus unexpectedly revealed, it
excited a natural interest in the minds of all to continue
their sittings, which Professor Mapes assured me were
prolonged uninterruptedly for five years, during which
every conceivable test was applied, resulting at length-
in the entire conversion of the whole party.
“ At that period, Spiritualism was spreading in
America in all directions. Mediums were developed in
numerous families, and daily the press announced, on
the testimony of more or less reliable witnesses, the
most marvellous accounts of new manifestations of
spirit-power. Professor Mapes having become satisfied
that a great truth lay at the root of it, though mixed up,
as he thought, with fanaticism and some charlatanism,
determined to see everything for himself; and wherever
he heard of new wonders, he packed up his portmanteau,
and without regard to time or expense, started off to
make a personal investigation. In this way he visited,
among many others, the Davenport Boys at Buffalo,
and the spirit-room of Jonathan Koons, situated in the
mountains of Ohio ; and he fully corroborated the ex¬
traordinary statements made respecting them.
“ Whilst Professor Mapes continued his own investi¬
gation, he felt it necessary, from its all-engro.ssing
character, to restrain his daughter from( pursuing her
mediumship, fearing that her health, which was deli¬
cate, would suffer, though he said some of her writing
was brilliant and powerful, and much beyond her
natural capacity. An arrangement was accordingly
made for her to visit some friends, with a view of
weaning her from the fascination which occupied so
much of her time. Mrs. Mapes was at this period alto¬
gether opposed to the whole subject, and unacquainted
with the fact that her husband was so deeply interested
in it, said to him one day, ‘ I am very much distressed
to think our daughter Sophy should deceive us; I have
written a strong reproof to her, as I feel sure it is most
improper conduct.’ Professor Mapes dissuaded his wife
from sending the letter, telling her he had his own
motives for wishing her to delay doing so. In a short
time after Mrs. Mapes herself was impelled one day to
write, and became at once devfeloped as a writing
medium. Fascinated with this new power, she con¬
tinued day by day almost exclusively occupied with her
writing, until at length Professor Mapes felt it necessary
to interfere, and said—‘ Wife, you and I have been
married thirty years, and I have never before interfered
with your personal liberty, but now I have seriously to
request that you will not, at least for the present, give
any more time to these influences, and that you will
consent to destroy all you have written.’ With many pro¬
tests Mrs. Mapes at length consented, and tearing the
leaves from a large manuscript volume, she consigned
them page by page to the flames—the understanding
being that she would not put her hand to paper for
twelve months to come.
“ Months having passed, an d the tendency to yield to the
influence having been effectually repressed, her husband
and family were surprised one day by her making pre¬
parations for drawing, and ^declaring that she believed
she could copy plants and flowers. They smiled at this
announcement; they were incredulous, as she had
never been instructed, and had never shown the least
talent for the art. She went, however, into the garden,
plucked an apple blossom, and sat down to copy it. In
a few minutes she made, greatly to the surprise of all
around her, a most excellent copy of this very delicate
flower, and thus spiritually influenced, she commenced
a series of coloured drawings, which, as they proceeded,
increased in beauty, and have now become most perfect
specimens of the art.
“ On referring to the date of their compact, Professor
Mapes found the drawing had commenced exactly
twelve months to the day on which Mrs. Mapes had
promised him not to write any more. The Professor
has not attempted to interfere with this development;
on the contrary, he appears to encourage it, and is
highly interested in her progress; and as a portion of
each day is devoted to drawing and painting, and as
they do not part with many, a large accumulation has
taken place, comprising now a great number of very in¬
teresting volumes. These drawings, which are produced
with great rapidity, unlike most mediumistic produc¬
tions, are of natural fruits, flowers, and birds, and this
extraordinary fact attaches to the birds, that each bird,
without study or any knowledge of the natural history
of the subject, on the part of Mrs. Mapes, is placed in
the accustomed associations of tree or plant on which it
builds or feeds.
“ I am indebted to Mrs. Mapes for two specimens of
her work, which she kindly presented to me, and which
have created the greatest admiration in all to whom I
have shown them ; one is an iris, and the other a col¬
lection of American autumnal leaves. They are both
pronounced by connoisseurs to be works of high art, and
the marvellous fact remains to be told, that both paint¬
ings were commenced and finished in little more than
one hour. No artist, I believe, could copy them in less
than two days.”
“ During the last conversation I had with him, Pro¬
fessor Mapes summed up his argument for Spiritualism
thus—‘ If, after making every allowance for the incon¬
gruities, false theories, fanaticism, and the common
errors attached to Spiritualism only ten per cent, of the
whole should prove pure and impregnable, it is still as
sound a science as chemistry was at the beginning of
this century, which has thrown aside ninety per cent, of
the teachings then received as truths.’ ”
CANON CALLOWAY ON PSYCHOLOGICAL
PHENOMENA.
No. 1.
Two interesting papers by the Rev. Canon Calloway, M.D.,
of Natal, on psychological phenomena, have been read before
the Anthropological Institute; and from these documents we
make the following quotations:— ,
INTRODUCTION.
“ There are certain extraordinary mental phenomena, which
have occurred at all times and in every stage of human cul¬
ture and condition of society, in which kll have more or less
believed, but about which there have, been the most diverse
opinions. Some have been disposed to treat all such, pheno¬
mena as, delusions or a something bordering on insanity.
Many have sheered at them and tried to laugh them down.
Some have ascribed them to imposture, and have refused to
believe in them at all, whilst others have most devoutly
believed in them, and supposed them to be occasioned by
visitations from the spirit-world; and the witch has been
supposed to have communion with the devil and to have
obtained from him in barter for her soul some worthless
power of doing evil for the mere sake of doing it, notwith¬
standing the utter impossibility of understanding the value
of such a bargain to either of the contracting parties. The
diviner has been supposed to be indebted for his knowledge
to good or evil spirits, according to the character of his
divinations.
“ The disposition to believe in spiritual agencies as a means
of escaping from the necessity of patient observation, and
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1872.
the labour of collecting facts and tracing them to their causes,
has very much diminished of late years. It was a great
naistake at all times, and has at all times led to confusion,
misunderstanding, and suffering, to refer any peculiar pheno¬
mena either in the outer world, or in the human mind, to the
direct agency of supernatural good or evil powers, who are
supposed to override or set aside the ordinary laws of the
universe, and come in with a special agency to effect some
special object. It is a mistake too, which binds those who
make it in slavery to superstition, and prevents them both
from making any real progress in true knowledge, and from
discovering and employing remedies for the evils which sur¬
round them. For, if we are dealing with natural phenomena,
however strange, complex, obscure, and difficult they may
be, we may yet hope by patience and perseverance to come at
length to understand them. But who can hope to contend
with spirits, or to comprehend what are the motives which
influence them, or what are the principles which shall deter¬
mine them'to interfere or to remain inactive ? It is clear we
cannot hope such a thing; and therefore all such supposed
supernatural phenomena will be left uninvestigated—a terra
incognita—a land full of ghosts and goblins who scare away
those who would dare to enter within its precincts.
“ Having such a conviction of the absolute harmony, and, if
I may so speak, legal administration of the universe, I feel
no disposition unnecessarily to call in spirits to explain such
phenomena, or to seek to the exorcist to prevent their recur¬
rence. For many years I have had my attention directed to
such penomena, and I have asked myself whether they may
not all be referred to some common law of human nature. At
any rate, I am persuaded, it will be better to believe this and
to work towards it—we may not all at once find this law, we
may barely get a glimpse of it. Yet by attempting to investi¬
gate such phenomena on the hypothesis that they are not
accidental or supernatural, but simply .manifestations of the
human mind acting in accordance with certain fixed laws,
we shall be moving in the direction of the truth whether we
ever reach it or not. At the same time I hold it to be utter¬
ly unscientific to deny the existence of spirits, or to refuse to
allow the possibility of their playing any part in the affairs of
man. The pure physicist tells us that it is out of his sphere
to determine whether there are such spiritual entities or not.
His work lies among material facts; he cannot, collect facts
from the spirit world. This may be so; and undoubtedly so
long as he finds natural conditions sufficient for the explana-
nation of such mental phenomena, he wisely abstains from
seeking for other causes. But if he cannot collect facts to
prove the existence of spirits, nor trace evidence of their
continually traversing the order of things in this lower world;
at least he cannot disprove this existence. Such facts may
elude his observation, or he may not yet understand how to
search for them or what kind pf facts to look for. It would
he therefore unscientific in him to act the dogmatist, and to
imagine that his ignorance or incapacity has proved a nega¬
tive. And for my part I accept the arguments of the meta¬
physician as having amply proved the existence of a spiritual
entity in man, distinct from the material organisation, in
which it works and by which it is brought into relation with
the external world. And I shall always speak in this belief
in the following paper.
“The great difficulty in the way of a scientific investigation
of such questions, is that we are dependent for individual
facts on the observation of individuals. We cannot experi¬
mentalise on them. We cannot cause them to be repeated at
will. The observer, generally at the time of the observation
in a super-excited state of mind, and becoming more excited
by what he has witnessed, relates to us the fact, and with it
his own interpretation, generally delivered in the most dog¬
matic form, and abundantly coloured by the imagination. He
asks, Did he not see ? Must he not believe his senses ? Can
a fact lie ? meaning here by fact, his own interpretation of it,
thus illustrating the saying—‘ Nothing lies like a fact,’ that is,
if it be misinterpreted.
“ The subject which I propose to discuss before this Society
is, certain Mental Phenomena occurring among the natives of
Natal, and which form the basis of their system of divination.
“ But before I can well apply any facts to the support of my
theory on the subject,! must discuss some preliminary matters
in connection with certain other phenomena, which I suppose
to be analogous, and by understanding the real nature of which
we may at last be helped to get a glimpse of the possible ex¬
planation of the more difficult phenomena.
“I propose then to speak of—1. Dreams; 2. Sympathy;
3. Presentiment.
“ I think, as we go along, we shall see that most of the
mental phenomena, which form the subject of this paper, may
be arranged under one or the other of these heads.
DB.EAMS.
“ 1. The Dream. I suppose none of us believe that a dream
is occasioned by the actual presence of the object of which we
dream. Yet it is a very common opinion throughout the
world, and was probably at one time universally believed, that
a dream results from the object coming to us, or that our
spirit goes to the object.
“ Thus the natives of Natal believe in the real objective
presence of the person of whom they dream. And one of the
great arguments used by those who have but little faith in the
legends of the people against the Itongo, or spirit of a dead
man, being a snake, is founded on this mistaken idea of the
nature of a dream : they say, the dead man always comes to
them in the form which he had whilst living, and therefore he
has not been turned into a snake.
“ But what is a dream ? Let us coin a word, not altogether
unobjectionable, I allow, but a word which will express in one
what a dream really is. A dream is—brain sensation.
“ I must explain what I mean by this.
“ Under ordinary circumstances, the mind is brought into
relation with the outer world by means of the senses. We all
say the hand feels, the eye sees, the ear hears, &c., and have
never stopped to think that all these expressions are quite un-
philosophieal. The hand no more feels than the probe which
the surgeon holds in it. The eye no more sees than does a
telescope. The ear no more hears than an ear-trumpet. Those
organs are merely instruments for receiving and modifying
impressions coming to them from surrounding objects. The
hand touches a solid body; an impression. is made on the
nerves; the impression is conveyed along the nerves, as a
message along the telegraphic wire, to the brain; and there
is produced a certain condition of brain, which is sensation;
and when the mind takes cognisance of this sensation, it is
consciousness. So an object presented to the eye produces a
picture on the expanded eye-nerve, just as the same object
produces afsimilar picture on the plate of a camera obscura ;
but the eye no more sees the picture than does the camera;
but the impression made on the return or expansion of the
eye-nerve is conveyed to the brain, and there becomes sight.
The mind recognises that condition of brain which is pro¬
duced by the impression made on the expansion of the eye-
nerve, and becomes conscious of the presence of the object,
in other words, sees it. So of the ear. Aerial vibrations set
in motion a fluid in which float the fibrils of the ear-nerve;
the impression thus produced travels along the nerve to the
brain, which the mind recognises, and becomes conscious of
sound.
“ In the brain, then, we find the real seat of the senses. It
is there, and not in the destal extremities of the nerves, not
in the organs of sense, that the mind takes cognisance of ex¬
ternal things.
“ A step further. These conditions of the brain, usually
resulting from impressions conveyed to it from external objects
may exist without such objects being present. In many diseases
the patient, without the action of any external object, has
impressions such as are ordinarily produced by their presence.
There may be a disagreeable smell without anything to pro¬
duce it, noticed by the patient only. He may have strange or
painful sensations in various parts of his body, without any
external cause. He may see persons or things, familiar or
strange ; or hear sounds articulate or otherwise.
“ This then is what I mean by brain-sensation—a condition
of brain which, without external causes, is attended by feeling,
hearing, and sight, just as it would if there were external
causes in operation, capable of producing such sensations.
“ This condition of brain ■which produces the dream, may
be absolutely subjective, or only partially so. It is absolutely
subjective when it is produced by the memory and imagination.
It is partially so when something external, similar to, or entirely
different from that dreamt of, sets the memory or imagination
at work. The memory in sleep is very peculiar, and some¬
times calls up the past with a greater vividness than when the
person is awake.
“ A dream is often, perhaps, much more frequently than
is supposed, or than can be traced, a mere fanciful new com¬
bination of past events.
“ Then other dreams are partially subjective. By that I
mean that there is some external impression which determines
the dream, becomes a starting point on which there is built up a
fanciful combination. A pin or feather accidentally pricks a
person as he turns in his bed. It is at once converted into a
sword, and the dream assumes the character of a deadly con¬
test with some enemy.
“ Let us pass from the dream by one step,—with one foot in
the world of dreams, the other advanced into the waking
world.
“ A person dreams of an absent or dead friend; he wakes
suddenly, the impression of the dream remains; with open
eyes and wakeful mind he still sees the image of the dead, and
nothing will dissuade him from the conviction that he has
actually seen a spirit.
“ The great Dr. Valpy, I have been told, when an old
man, lost his wife, to whom he was deeply attached. A few
weeks after he was resting on the sofa, and slept. He dreamt
of his wife, and as he awoke he continued to see her, as she
quitted the drawing-room by the window into the garden. He
believed that his wife had come back to him from the dead,
and that it was an intimation that he should soon join her.
“ In such a case as this we have only to suppose that he had
been thinking intensely on the departed, and, in sleep, her
well-known form again impressed itself on his brain, and on
awaking the impression remained, just as when the eye has
rested for a time on any strong colour, the impression remains
on the eye-nerve long after the object has been removed.
“ But there are waking dreams. There are innumerable
instances in which, entirely without the presence of external
objects, the brain is impressed as though such objects were
present. There is the same kind of subjective brain-sensation
when a man is awake, as produces dreams when he is sleeping.
“ The case of Nicholai, the bookseller, whose room was to
him apparently always'full of company, is well known to
most.
“ But these spectres, as I prefer to call them, rather than
spectral illusions, are extremely various; sometimes appearing
for a moment only and then vanishing; sometimes existing as
a permanent companion; sometirpes solitary and unvarying;
sometimes - in large numbers, and of an ever changeful
character.
“ Another gentleman, on retiring to rest after an exhausting
day’s work, carefully excluded all light from his chamber; as
soon as he laid his head on the pillow, there was presented to
him, projected with a still deeper darkness on the darkness of
the room, a huge bootjack, from the top of which gradually
emerged the head of a horned demon, which glared on him
with malicious eyes. Being a thoughful man, the spectre was
a source of amusement and not of terror. To a timid, un¬
trained, hysterical person, the result would have been a scream,
which would have aroused the house; and another real ghost
story would have been added to those thousands which have
heen authenticated on unimpeachable authority.
“ The bootjack would certainly be a thing rather difficult to
explain. For what should a real demon want with a bootjack?
But this reminds us that ghosts are generally dressed. The
ghost of a garment is rather a curious thing, and hard to ex¬
plain on the supposition that it covers a spirit. We may recur
to this presently. .•
“ There is another set of these spectres which are only seen
when the eyes are shut, thus excluding the possibility of their
being occasioned by external things. These, as well as others,
are met with for the most part in disordered, generally ex¬
hausted, or superexcited Conditions of the brain, and many
who have been subject to these brain sensations either become
deranged, or die of brain disease.
“ In one case a gentleman of nervous temperament, on re¬
tiring to rest after the exhaustion of the day, as soon as he
laid his head on the pillow and closed his eyes, was visited by
various spectres. A horse’s skull would arise at the bedside,
gape at him, and retire, to be followed by a hideous face,
perhaps, which would grin, and give way to something else.
Sometimes a company of witches, with conical hats and
mounted on broomsticks, would ride in a circle over his bed. He
seemed to have no power to call up or to dismiss these spectres.
They came of their own accord, and disappeared when they
liked. If they were very hideous, or he was tired of the
amusement of watching them, he had only to open his eyes,
and they would vanish in an instant.
“ This gentleman would sometimes, in the company of his
friends, sit with closed eyes, and for their amusement describe
the various grotesque spectres which rose in succession to his
consciousness.
“ Others have the power of calling up spectres when they
wish; that is, they can, by an effort of the will, induce that
condition of brain, which I have called brain-sensation. This
is a very important fact in the investigation of the causes of
such phenomena.
“ Generally speaking, the subjects of these spectres can dis¬
tinguish the spectres from real objects. But Dr. Abercrombie
has recorded the case of a gentleman who was always accom¬
panied by spectres, which he had great difficulty in distin¬
guishing from real objects ; so that if he met a friend, he had
to ask if it were he or his spirit.
“ These cases which I have read, mostly from accounts I
have myself heard directly or indirectly from the subjects of
such spectres, are instances in which they are generally recog¬
nised as spectres, that is, as visions which have no external
reality. They are waking dreams ; and as we have no diffi¬
culty in supposing that there is no object present to cause a
dream, so we may find it equally easy to refer all these
instances, and a thousand others we may meet with in the
course of our reading or conversation, to a condition of brain
which exists entirely independent of external causes.
“ We must not omit to mention another class of cases;
there are many such cp,ses on record, in which an impression
made on the brain has lain dormant for years, and then come
up again as a spectre with all its original vividness.
“ I remember having an attack of fever at Torquay. During
my convalescence, I used to watch from my window the
tossing of the mast of a vessel as it rolled with the waves in
the bay. Some six or seven years after, I had another attack
of fever in London, and the first thing that presented itself
during the excitement of the first night was the mast of the
tossing vessel.
“More remarkable.cases of the coming up of old impres¬
sions are those in which the subject of them appears to have
been scarcely conscious of the impressions when first made,
and which recur only in certain abnormal or over-excited con¬
ditions of the nervous system.
“ A clergyman was in the habit of walking up and down in
a passage connected with the kitchen, when reading aloud his
Hebrew Bible. He had a servant girl who was not remarkable
for any special ability, but on the contrary was rather dull and
lethargic. No one supposed that she either heard or cared
for the Hebrew reading, but some time after she went to
another place. One night her mistress heard a remarkable
sound coming from the girl’s chamber, she listened and at
length entered; and found her talking in her sleep in a
strange language. Others were called, and at last a Hebrew
scholar discovered that the girl was repeating with great
accuracy portions of the Hebrew Bible. When awake she
knew nothing of what had1 happened, neither could she
remember a single Hebrew word*
“ Hitherto our attention has been directed to spectral
vision or brain-sight. But there are mental phenomena of
precisely the same nature, in which sounds and voices are
heard. These sounds may vary from the tinkling of a bell,
or a call of the name to the constant or almost constant pre¬
sence of a talking, though invisible, companion. It is very
possible that the demon of Socrates, and the nymph of Numa
Pompilius are to be referred to this order of phenomena,
and I am myself acquainted with persons, who, when in
certain states of mental exaltation, have long discourses spoken
to them in prose or verse—in such a way that they seem to
be as much a something uttered without them and indepen¬
dent of the working of their own minds as the harangue of an
orator, and the reading of a poet.
“ There are cases of brain-hearing ; that is, there is, I pre¬
sume, the same condition of brain as there would be if the
sounds actually reached it through the ear.
“ You will see at once how this theory explains the case of
those fanatics who suppose they have received a call to do
some great and good or some debasing and wicked thing; to
evangelise the world, they being utterly unfitted by mental
endowments, training, or religious or moral character for such
a work:—as to overthrow the established order of society,
expecting but not having the power given to them, which the
inner voices have promised them for the purpose of carrying
out their ruinous projects. These men are devout believers in
the reality of these voices, which they suppose come from
heaven, and that to disobey or to resist them is a sin against
God.
“It is to this class too belong those cases in which a
murderer is pursued by the victim he has slain. He cannot
escape from the death shriek which constantly 1 reverberates
in the distracted chambers of his brain.,’ Indelibly branded
as it were, on the seat of memory that shriek pursues him like
an avenging angel; and drives him on to confession, or to
madness.
“ Shakspear, with his usual wonderful accuracy of descrip¬
tion of human nature, brings out in a very striking manner
these forms of brain-sensation in Macbeth. When Macbeth
is contemplating the murder which is destined to fulfil the
witches prophecy, his excited mind produces on his brain the
impression of a dagger.
“1 Is this a dagger which I see before me,
The handle towards my hand ? Come, let me clutch thee
1 have thee not, and yet I see thee still.
Art thou not fatal vision, sensible
To feeling, as to sight ? Or art thou but
A dagger of the mind? a false creation
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain ?
I see thee yet, in form as palpable
As this which I now draw.
Thou marshal’st me the way that I was going:
And such an instrument I was to use—
Mine eyes are made the fools o’ the other senses,
Or else worth all the rest. I see thee still,
And on thy blade, and dudgeon, gouts of blood,
Which was not so before.—There’s no such thing:
It is the bloody business, which informs
Thus to mine eyes.’
“ And no sooner had he slain- the aged Duncan, a deed from
which his latter manhood had recoiled, than he hears a voice
proclaiming that he had purchased royalty at the expense of
peace.
“ The bells would not have rung out the encouraging peal
to the wandering lad, ‘ Turn again, Whittington, Lord Mayor of
London,’ had there not been some previous whispering of ambi¬
tion in his own mind.
“ This is well brought out hy Dr. Aytoun.
“ The widow of nine months old feels her loneliness, and
the cares of business too great for her. She casts loving eyes
on her servant Guillot, whom she thinks fine in person and
capable in his trade. So she goes to consult the priest, who,
having listened to her pros and cons for such a match, recom¬
mends her to allow the bells to determine for her.
“ ‘But I’ve a plan
To clear your doubts, if any can,
The bells a peal are ringing,—hark!
Go straight and what they tell you mark.
If they say, ‘Yes! ’ wed and be blest—
If ‘No,’ why—do as you think best.
She listens to the bells with great emotion
As thus she heard their burden go,
Marry, mar—marry mar—Guillot..
“ But Guillot turns out a worse husband than servant; and
the hapless widow has to lament her choice. She goes to the
priest and casts on him the blame of her misery—but he tells
Aug. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
her she has probably heard the bells amiss; and advises her to
listen once more. She does so,
And sure enough their chime went so,—
‘Don’t have that knave, that knave Guillot! ’
‘Too true,’ she cried, ‘there’s not a dbuht:
What could my ears have been about?’
She had forgot, that, as fools think,
The bells are ever sure to clink.’
“ There is another class of such phenomena to which I can
only just allude. It is said that certain families and localities
are the subjects of them.
“ Thus a, death in certain great Irish families is said to
be heralded in by the scream of the Banshee: some in Scot¬
land by a voice of a more plaintive and gentle character.
Others have a visit from a headless lady dressed in white; or
from a brown lady; or a white bird flutters at the window.
“ But we fancy that the rattle of the railway cars, and
the shriek of the whistle have drowned the Banshee’s screams,
and the gentle voice of the Scotch Spectre. And it is proba¬
ble that the white and brown lady, and the white bird will
also disappear in the presence of modern improvements. All
these things belong to an olden time, they are of a very
conservative turn, and being disgusted with innovation, refuse
to be witnesses of the wondrous changes which are going on
around us.
“ Another sign of the death of the head of a family or other
member is the sound of carriage wheels driving up to the
door. I mention this for the sake of introducing a curious
fact which occurred among the natives, and which led to a
dispute which it was difficult to settle. One of the natives of
Springvale was absent with his waggon. After his departure
his little girl was seized with a sudden and severe illness, which
rapidly proved fatal. On the evening of her death, a native
living a few hundred yards off and several of his family heard,
as they supposed, a waggon passing their house, and were
pleased to think that the father had returned in time to see
his child die. But in the morning they were surprised to hear
that the child was dead, but no waggon had come.
“The grandfather of the child seemed to think that the per¬
sons who heard the sound of the waggon were guilty of some
offence. The natives are full of superstition as to the cause
of diseases. And even when partially enlightened by Christian
teaching, the old thoughts still cling to them. This old
man supposed his child had been made ill by a sorcerer, and
that the sound heard was occasioned by Imikover, which
had been sent to take away the child. The Imikover are a
kind of spirit with material bodies which it is supposed sor¬
cerers have obtained by raising the dead, and making them
their families and servants.
“ Then some particular localities are said to have their own
spectres. These may address themselves to the eye or ear.
“ Thus in one house a footstep is heard to pass along a
certain passage at a certain time of the night, and may be
heard by any one. I have heard of one case, in which a gen¬
tleman of undoubted veracity declared he had often heard the
footsteps pass him without seeing any one.
. “ More difficult is the following, which I relate at second
hand, my informant having received it from the gentleman
himself.
“A young Highlander, belonging to one of the old clans
of Scotland, of powerful physique and imperturbable courage,
was one day wandering about his native mountains without
any other object than the gratification of a wild, wandering
fancy. Towards night he came to a gentleman’s mansion ;
he neither knew the owner nor the house. He was hospitably
received, and retired to rest under the influence of all sleep
disposing causes. He slept; but on awaking during the night
he saw the naked arm of a woman over his head. Even very
brave men do not like to look at ghosts, even though it be the
ghost of but an arm only. So he did as little children do,
uried his head in the bed clothes. But after a time curios¬
ity caused him to look again, and there was the arm still
over his head. He was too sensible to allow his night to be
further disturbed, so covered his head and slept soundly till the
morning. On making his appearance at the breakfast table
the lady of the house asked how he had slept. ‘ Oh, capi¬
tally,’ was the reply. 4 But what is the meaning of the arm I
saw’ ? 4 Then you saw the arm, did you ?’ asked the lady.
It was a local spectre which people frequently saw.
“ I confess I am unable to explain such matters as these.
They require further investigation. The sound may be exter¬
nal, real sound produced by some unknown cause, and local
spectres, if they are seen by persons who know of the bad fame
of the place in which they appear, may be explained on the
supposition that they are mere instances of brain-sight, caused
by the imagination. But when they are seen by persons
wholly unacquainted with the history of such appearances,
it is very difficult to know to what we can attribute such
phenomena. But it is probable that if fully and cautiously
investigated, either they would break down altogether, or we
should be able to refer them to known, though at present,
concealed causes.
“A gentleman has supplied me with a very interesting
example of this power of the will, and has kindly permitted
me to use it. It is as follows :—
44 4 In my early days as a medical student, having seen and
tried successfully some experiments in mesmerism, and lying
awake one night at home, I resolved to attempt by my will to
form a definite image in the dark room. After a little delibe¬
ration, I fixed upon the figure of a monkey, and as this would
be a dark object, further pictured him with a red coat. The
figure would thus be distinctive and unmistakeable. And
I now exerted my will to form it visibly. Before very long
the image of my mental picture gradually emerged from the
darkness, and grew into a distinct object. I now tried to dis¬
perse it without effect. The thing of my own creation still
stared at me, though I covered my eyes with clothes. The
mind was probably fatigued by the creative process, and
I became alarmed. Ultimately I fell asleep from exhaustion,
without, so far as I can remember, getting rid of the image.
But the alarm was sufficient to deter me from repeating the
experiment.’
■ In some cases the figure thus raised is never laid again,
but the victim, like another Frankenstein, continues for life
to be haunted by the creation of his own mind.
44 Thus Dr. Wigan has recorded a case. He says :—
44 4 1 knew a very intelligent and amiable man who had the
power of placing before his eyes himself, and often laughed
heartily at his double, who always seemed to laugh in his
turn. This was long a subject of amusement and joke, but
the result was lamentable. He became gradually convinced
that he was haunted by himself, or (to violate grammar for
the sake of clearly expressing his idea) his self. Tbe other
self would argue with him pertinaciously, and to his great
mortification sometimes refute him, which, as he was very
proud of his logical powers, humiliated him exceedingly. He
was eccentric, but was never placed in confinement, or sub¬
jected to the slightest restraint. At length, worn out by the
annoyance, he deliberately determined not to enter on another
year of existence; paid all his debts, wrapped up, in separate
papers, the amount of the weekly demands, waited, pistol in
hand, the night of the 31st of December, and, as the clock
struck twelve, fired it into his mouth.’
44 To this class we may well refer those strange confessions
made by some who have been accused of withcraft. They
have persistently declared that they held commerce with the
devil, and by his instrumentality had been guilty of the
crimes ascribed to them. We may suppose that in some
moment of bitterness they have longed to be able to avenge
themselves; to injure those who have injured them, or to
reduce to poverty some prosperous neighbour whose well-doing
was a burden and annoyance to them in contrast with their
own squalid poverty and desolation. They could not evoke
the good spirit for such a purpose. But in accordance with
the religious faith they had been taught, and only partially
apprehended, there was an evil one at hand whom they might
evoke, and who was ever ready to listen. They called on the
spirit of evil, and thus evoked he rose before them, a creation
of their own mind, not4 as a monkey in a red jacket,’ but in
the orthodox form and accessories of the time, with a homed
head, divided hoof, long tail, glaring eyes, and sulphurous
smell. And thus raised, the spectre became their more or less
constant companion ; they would talk with it, bargain with
it, listen to its replies, believe in its promises. With such a
spectre as a companion, their dark minds would brood more
and more over evil wishes, and would act out in thought the
evil they longed to do, until at length they actually believed
that what they wished had been carried into action, as they
believed they had raised the devil, and sold him their souls.
This I believe is the correct explanation of such confessions.
The excitement of the arrest, the presence of the judge, the
accessories of a court of justice, would all be calculated to
arouse them from their usual morbid reveries to the facts of
real life ; to pluck them rudely from their own subjective
little world, its visions and imaginary evil actings, to place
them in the presence of the external and the true. Thus
aroused, their spectre companions would disappear; they
would suppose themselves at length forsaken and left to them¬
selves ; and thus believing that the time was come for the
completion of the bargain, they were willing to give up their
souls in return for the imaginary evil they had longed to do,
with which they were charged, and which they themselves
supposed they had actually done.
44 There are several cases recorded fully justifying this con¬
clusion. I shall mention only one. There were certain strange
maniacs common in the dark ages which were called lycan-
thropes—that is, wolf-men : because they were believed by
others, and believed themselves to be, from time to time
transformed into wolves, and in this condition to commit
depredations in their neighbourhood, killing cattle and men.
There was among these a man who was charged with this
crime, and who fully admitted it, and boasted of his deeds
rather than otherwise. He would, in accordance with the
rough superstitions of the times, have been burnt, but for the
interference of a medical man, more intelligent and merciful
than his contemporaries. He asserted he was insane. The
man was carefully watched ; he was observed to go into a
neighbouring forest, and to enter a cave, where he was found
in a trance, in whicb state he remained several days ; and on
coming to himself, he related various atrocities which he had
committed in the form of a wolf during these days of trance.
The visions of a trance-sleep were believed by this man to be
real occurrences.
441 wish you especially to bear in mind the fact I have just
brought before you, that the will can act on the brain from
within, and produce a condition of brain similar to that which
is produced by an object acting on the senses from without.
44 It is an interesting and not unimportant fact, that in
some cases there is a dream-consciousness and a waking con¬
sciousness ; a person when dreaming has one consciousness,
which is different from the consciousness of the same person
when awake ; that is, he has a 4 double consciousness.’ ”
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION OF
CRIMINALS.*
BY COUNCILLOR E. d’ALINGE, OF SAXONY.
The criminal is a moral invalid whom we desire to
help.
This help we can only render hy interrupting his
course of action, directed as it had been against the
welfare of society, with the sentence of the law, and
also hy endeavouring to prevent a future relapse in the
carrying out of that sentence.
The question arises, what have we to do in order to
attain this end ?
During the carrying out of the sentence we shall
have to take care to ascertain the moral failing which
prompted his criminal course of action ; we have next
to employ means adequate for the removal of this
failing; and, finally, we have to provide the convalescent'
with the full power of resisting, by dint of his own
efforts, a relapse.
This achieved, it must he admitted that the criminal,
the morally sick, is restored to health, to temporal and
spiritual salvation.
Such restoration is the object aimed at by those to
whom the carrying out of the law is entrusted.
It will be asked by what means -is this to be
achieved ?
Surely not by a system of punishment.
Neither collective nor cellular imprisonment; neither
the progressive nor any other system will improve the
prisoner.
The only effective means are instruction and educa¬
tion, if by the classification of the individual, they are
made thoroughly available.
The first problem of the penitentiary authorities,
then, is to obtain as clear an image as possible of the
mental and moral condition of the prisoner. The
obtaining of such an image is fraught with more or less
* A paper read at a meeting of the “International Congress on the
Prevention and Repression of Crime,” held in London, on Thursday, July
4th, 1872, in answer to the question, “Ought elassifleation of prisoners
according to character to be considered as the principal basis of any peni¬
tentiary system, whether associated or separate ? ’’
difficulty, according to the degree of which the detained
individuals may be classed under two heads :—
1. Those in which such an image or delineation is
at once patent to the practised eye of the
official, and
2. Those in which this cannot be done at once.
Those under the first head can be there and then
psychologically and pedagogically disposed of; the
place best for their education will be readily found.
Those under the second head must be isolated and
watched until they are understood and can also be
placed.
What is it that we ascertain by these spiritual
diagnoses ?
Evidently one thing or another. Either we find that
the prisoners are morally so depraved as to render their
will power for the exercise of that which is good equal
to zero, and in this case another will has to be substi¬
tuted for their own : or they have sufficient power left
to rouse themselves and to strike out a better path on
the strength of their spontaneous resolve.
To one of the former class we say:—44You shall
become a better man; ” those in the latter say,441 will
become a better man.”
Both classes must, of course, be subjected to the same
laws and regulations, and it is consequently difficult to
ascertain exactly how much is effected by the laW, and
how much by the will of the individual.
It appears hence necessary to establish conditions
which will allow a safer judgment on these points, and
to submit to these, those prisoners on whom we believe
to have operated with success.
Thus the inmates of a penitentiary naturally divide
into three sections, which are best designated as dis¬
ciplinary classes.
Those who show little or no inclination to meet the
educational endeavours of the authorities, and especially
those who by relapses distinctly betray a deficiency of
will, only turning to at the word44 you shall,” form the
third disciplinary class or the lowest grade.
Those who with the thought 441 will be better ” in
their minds co-operate readily with the exertions of the
authorities in raising their moral culture, and who,
with a determined will and all their strength profit by
the means placed at their disposal, form the second
disciplinary class.
Those, at last, who for some time have worked at
their improvement, and justify a hope of steady pro¬
gress on their return into society, form first discip¬
linary class.
Such classification, of course, excludes the idea of
being laid down as an exact pattern for every prison
system, and it demands of the managers a course of
action similar to that of the physician. He treats in an
operative, curative, and dietetic manner; and they
have, likewise, by the employment of adequate modifi¬
cations of prison discipline and educational agencies at
their command, to treat the prisoner operatively,
curatively, and dietetically.
Such a classification, based on true psychological
individualization, will and must, in every prison system,
work to the highest benefit of the detained, and, in
consequence, improve the political condition of the
country adopting it.
THE MOABITE STONE.
The following is a portion of a letter by Captain R.
E. Burton, the African traveller, dispelling much in¬
accurate information about the Moabite Stone, which
has been widely circulated among the uninformed in this
country. We quote it from the Athenaeum of April 13,
1872. Captain Burton says:—
It gives us a view of sacred history almost identical in
terms, but in tenor very different, from that offered by 2
Chronicles xx., by 2 Kings i. I, and especially by 2 Kings iii.
It is not merely an44 interesting comment,” but an explanation
and a new version. I wonder when I read,—44 The differences
between the two narratives are such as might be expected in
two records of the same events emanating from two hostile
parties, and are far less striking than the conflicting descrip¬
tions given by the English and French of the battle of
Waterloo ; by the English, French, and Russians of the cap¬
ture of Sebastopol; by the Prussians and Austrians of the
battle of Sadowa; or by the French and Germans of the
battle of Woerth ” (Ginsburg). Nor can I agree with Mr.
Wright (p. 36), “That it” (the stone) “was not set up after
the joint expedition of Jehoram and Jehosaphat is certain
(the italics are mine), because in that case it would inevitably
have contained a paragraph referring thereto. Mesha would
assuredly have told how his foes besieged him in Kir Moab;
how he sacrificed his first born unto Kamosh ; and how his
god, thus propitiated, dispersed his enemies, and made them
flee again to their own land.” The inscription fairly read,
means that Mesa was not besieged in Kir Moab, and did not
make a holocaust of his son.
The stele emphatically relates events which are far too
euphemistically treated by the sacred writers. The apparently
causeless departure of the hated Israelites and their return to
their own country is shown to have been not an act of
humanity and pity (pity from a Jew for a Gentile !), as the
Jew Josephus explains (Antiq. 9, 3, § 2), but simply an ignomi¬
nious flight. The absolute defeat of the allied host, the sacri¬
fice of their soldiers and citizens, and the capture of their
women and children, must have been sore blows to the wor¬
shippers of Yahveh. Hence, in the reigns of Uzziah, Ahaz,
and Hezekiah, the so-called Isaiahnic writings (b.c. 808—697)
deal freely in threats which are enlargements of Numbers xxi.
27-30. We read of the pride, haughtiness, and wrath of
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1872.
Moab (xvi. 6), of the “ burden of Moab ” (xv. 1—9), and of the
bringing down of Moab (xv. 11). The latter, together with
the captivity Of Moab and Chamosh in the latter days, is
evidently copied in the imprecations of Jeremiah (chap, xlviii.),
who wrbte between B.c. 638 and 586, when Jerusalem and
Judah fell under Nebuzadan the Chaldean.
On the other hand, we hear nothing, as might be expected,
about the devoting of Mesa’s son to Chamosh, which, by-the-
by, suggests the unconsummated sacrifice of Isaac and
Jephtha’s horrid vow ; nor do the Moabites mistake for the
blood of the allies who had slain one another, the water
miraculously supplied to Elisha. Do we not freely own to our
desire for a supply of that “double evidence which so often
tantalises the student of ancient history,” especially in one of
the most ancient of all histories ? We sorely long for
more Moabite Stones, which will cry out to us midi alteram
partem. It is only the conflicting version that can explain
such legends as that of Lot and his daughters, possibly, as in
the case of Ammon, the result of some blood-feud, and that of
Balaam, which may have been borrowed from a Moabitish
chronicle. We would willingly also see the test of an altera
lectio applied to the raid of David against the Moabites so
laconically told (in 2 Sam. viii. 2, and 1 Chron. xviii. 2), an
apparently causeless onslaught upon a people connected with
him through Buth by blood-ties, and to whom his father Jesse
owed so much gratitude.
To measure the amount of difference, let us compare the
statements found in 2 Kings iii. with the Moabite Stone, this
chapter of realistic local history ; the collation will prove how
much the latter corrects and supplements the former.
2 Kings iii.
4. And Mesha King of Moab was
a sheep-master, and rendered unto
the King of Israel an hundred thou¬
sand lambs, and an hundred thou¬
sand rams, with the wool.
6-9. And King Jehoram went
out of . Samaria the same time, and
numbered all Israel.
And he went and sent to Jehosa-
pliat the King of Judah, saying, The
King of Moab hath rebelled against
me: wilt thou go with me against
Moab to battle ? And he said, I will
go up: I am as thou art, my people
as thy people, and my horses as thy
horses.
Stele.
Lines 4 and 6 mention only de¬
spoilers, enemies, and Omri, his son
and his grandson, the oppressors and
destroyers.
Lines 7 and 10 mention only Israel
and the men of Qad.
And he said, Which way shall we
go up? And he answered, The way
through the wilderness of Edom.
So the King of Israel went, and
the King of Judah, and the King of
Edom; and they fetched a compass
of seven days’ journey....
17. For thus saith the Lord, Ye
shall not see wind, neither shall ye
see rain.; yet that valley shall be filled
with water, that ye may drink, both
ye, and your cattle, and your beasts.
22—24. And they rose up early in
the morning, and the sun shone
upon the water, and the Moabites
saw the water on the other side as
red as blood:
And they said, This is blood: the
kings are surely slain, and they have
smitten one another: now therefore,
Moab, to the spoil.
And when they came to the camp
of Israel, the Israelites rose up and
smote the Moabites, so that they fled
before them. ...
25. And they beat down the cities,
and on every good piece of land cast
every man his stone, and filled it;
and they stopped all the wells of
water; and felled all the good trees:
only in Kir-haraseth left they the
stones thereof: howbeit the slingers
went about it, and smote it.
26. And when the King of Moab
saw that the battle was too sore for
him, he took with him seven hun¬
dred men that drew swords, to break
through even unto the King of
Edom: but they could not.
27. Then he took his eldest son
that should have reigned in his stead,
and offered him for a burnt-offering
upon the wall. And there was great
indignation against Israel: and they
departed from him, and returned to
their own land.
No mention of this terrible loss to
the tribe of Gad. .
No mention of this terrible loss to
the Israelites.
Ditto.
Ditto.
No mention of this miraculous
water-supply.
No mention of this phenomenon,
which is recounted as if the semi-
Bedawin Moabites had never seen a
mirage.
No mention of the barbarous tac¬
tics referred to by the sacred writer.
No mention of a failure more glo¬
rious to a warrior-king than many a
victory.
No mention of this sacrifice.
Lines 11-12. Storming of Ataroth
by Mesa, slaughter of the warriors,
dedication of the spoils to Ohamosh,
and re-colonisation by the Moabites.
Lines 14-18. Capture of Nebo,
slaughter of 7,000 men, women,
maidens, and vessels of Jehovah de¬
voted to Ashtar-Ohamosh.
Lines 19-20. Capture of Jahaz,
which had been fortified by the King
of Israel.
32. Attack upon the Horonaim,
allies of the Israelites.
The “ strong remark ” that, the Moabite Stone reads like a
page of the Bible might have been made stronger. It is
evident that in the Book of Kings we tread upon enchanted
ground, whereas, in the stele, we find a chapter of realistic,
local, and contemporary chronicles. The former offers, in a
single chapter, a “ prophet,” a miracle, and a phenomenon
so inexplicable as to be ^wasi-miraculous ; the latter deals
throughout with the world as we still know it. And the un-
nrejudiced will find no difficulty in answering the question,
Which is history, and which is the romance of history ?'
Richard F. Burton.
MRS. HOLMES’S MEDIUMSHIP.
A newspaper advertisement recently called our atten¬
tion to the arrival in London of Mrs. Jennie Holmes,
who was stated to be a good American physical medium,
who sometimes had large iron rings put upon one of her
arms, while the hand of that arm was held by one of
the persons present. On Monday, last week, our re¬
porter attended one of Mrs. Holmes’s public seances at
50, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde Park, W., and the
following is his account of what he witnessed :—
“ About nine or ten persons were present, including
Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, Mr. Daw, Mr. and Mrs. Guppy,
Mrs. Burns, and myself. The observers sat round three
sides of the room, in a horse-shoe curve, and Mrs.
Holmes sat at a table by herself on the other side of
the room, two or three yards from the other persons
present. She requested that during the dark seance all
the members of the circle should join hands and not un¬
clasp them on any account, also that the hands of Mr.
Holmes, who sat at one end of the circle, should be held.
This being promised, she asked me to tie her hands to¬
gether with a piece of rope about half an inch in
diameter, and rather more than two yards long. I
first tied the rope round one wrist with a double knot,
then round the other wrist with a double knot, and saw
that she could not possibly slip her hands through the
two loops thus made. The length of rope connecting
her hands was then five inches. I next placed her two
hands together, and tied the wrists together, securing
them with a double knot. She then asked me to tie
her hands to the leg of the table, on which guitars and
other musical instruments were placed, in order that
she might not be able to touch the instruments on the
top of the table. I told her I preferred tying her down
to her own chair, and did so accordingly, placing the
final double knot under the bottom rail of the chair.
All the hands of the sitters were then joined, and the
lights were put out. At once there was great clatter
and noise among the instruments on the table. A
guitar flew all round the room playing a tune, and
tapped each sitter gently on the head as it passed
round. The room was a large one. A voice then told
Mr. Holmes to strike a light, and requested me to
examine the knots. I found the medium tied exactly
as I had left her. The light was put out again, and
she was instantly untied.
“ She then, entranced by a spirit, called me to the
table, and placed a chair for me, asking me to hold
both her hands, and on no account to loosen my hold of
them. This I did, and she passed my left hand down
her head, shoulder, and left arm, again and again,
tellirig me to make sure she had no ring on it. A welded
iron ring, about inches in diameter, and two tam¬
bourine rings, had been given us tp examine before the
seance. "When I said that I was satisfied that she had
no ring on her arm, she began to sway about in her
chair, saying that the spirits were collecting power
from the members of the circle; all this time, at her
re'quest, I held tightly on to her hands, and she moved
my left hand to feel the three rings lying upon the table.
Suddenly the iron ring was upon my right arm at the
elbow, and Mr. Guppy called out, that one of the tam¬
bourine rings was upon his arm, although he had been
holding Mrs. Guppy’s hand all the time the lights
had been extinguished.
“ A light was then struck by Mr. Holmes, but shaded
from the face of Mrs. Holmes, who was in a deep
trance, with the whites of her eyes only exposed. He
was on the point of putting out the light, when I said
I should like to examine the ring on my arm, to see
whether it was the same one we had looked at before
the seance began. He told' me not to let go of Mrs.
Holmes’s hand, and when she woke up he would strike
a light again, and I could examine the ring. This was
done. I examined the ring, and could find no joint in
it; the weld was perfect; and when I suspended it on
one finger and struck it with a key, it rang with a clear
musical sound. There was then no other iron ring on
the table.
“ The only non-spiritual explanation that occurred
to me was, that some covering upon her arm might
have made my hand slip over the ring on her arm,
without feeling it. But, from the large diameter of the
ring, and the complete way in which I felt her arm,
this theory carried no conviction to my own mind.
“ All the time I was holding both her hands, a guitar
was flying over me, playing tunes, and every now and
then touching my head and shoulders. My face was
also repeatedly stroked by soft hands.
“ On Friday, last week, I was at a private seance,
with Mrs. Holmes. Twenty or thirty ladies and gen¬
tlemen were present, several cf them well known, and
eminent in literature, science, and art. One gentleman
present—a leading officer of the British Association^—
had a ring placed on under the same conditions as
myself, except that no guitar played about his head,
and that a wooden tambourine ring bound with iron
came upon his arm. He was touched upon his head,
shoulders, and side, while he held both hands of the
medium. He said that perhaps she did the touches on
his side with her feet—lie could not, however, see how
the touches on his head and shoulders could be done in
that way. He, too, thought that perhaps something
on her arm might have prevented his feeling the tam¬
bourine ring, but from the enormous diameter of the
ring, this supposition was beset with more difficulties
than in my case, where the iron ring was used.
“ Shortly afterwards another gentleman was called up,
and told to place his feet on the feet of the medium,
and to hold both her hands. He did this, and held her
knees between his knees. He also thoroughly felt her
left arm. Then he was touched all over with hands,
and the tambourine ring came upon his arm. Directly
this was done, the spirit Rosa, who had entranced the
medium, said to a lady sitting next Mr. Holmes,
f Have you been holding Mr. Holmes’s hands all the
time ? ’ ‘ Yes,’ was the reply. She then said to the
gentleman holding the medium, *. Have you been holding
the medium’s hands and feet alLthe time ? ’ ‘ Yes,’ was
the answer. Then she said to the members of the
circle, ‘Have you people been holding each others
hands ? ’ A general chorus of ‘ Yes,’ was the answer.
‘ And have you been touched all over ? ’ she said to the
gentleman holding the medium. ‘ Yes,’ he said. ‘ Well,
then,’ said Rosa, ‘ Who dood it ? ’
“ The question, ‘ Who dood it ?’ was felt to be a
clincher. Nearly all the members of the circle were
well known to each other, and the one or two who were
less known had their hands held.
“ In both these cases the tambourine rings were very
carefully examined. In the first case the gentleman
said that it felt as if the ring came upon his arm from
near his shoulder.
“ At this seance nine or ten of the sitters at one side
of the room had a guitar flying over their heads, play¬
ing, and gently tapping each head in turn, but this was
not done all round the circle.”
Mr. Burns has published the following account of
his experience at a seance which was held three or four
weeks ago:—
The medium, still entranced, and sitting in complete dark¬
ness, was used by “ Rosa ” to ask me to sit forward on a chair
which stood near to the table and close to the medium.' I
groped my way to the vacant chair as desired, when the spirit
extended the arms of the medium to meet me, and directed me
to sit right in front of her. I was then made to pass my hands
down the medium’s arms, and thus satisfy myself that she had
no rings on her arms. I did so most thoroughly, from which
moment I held one of her hands in each of mine till the ac¬
complishment of the manifestation. Still holding the
medium’s hands, the spirit made me feel about the table, to
make certain that the iron ring and the two tambourine hoops
or frames were on it—particularly the stout one bound with
iron. I did so repeatedly, the medium’s hand accompanying
mine as I held them tightly. The spirit then shook the
medium’s, and mine also, to show that there was no tam¬
bourine on them, or it would have been heard to jingle. The
audience was then told to sing, when Miss JSiisbet struck up a
melodious ditty, in which the others joined. As this proceeded
“Rosa’’ ceased her prattling, her last words being more
solemn and measured. I felt my head and arms being touched
all over gently by soft hands. The seers saw the spirits mak¬
ing passes between the medium and myself, to unite our per¬
sonal spheres, so that we were encompassed in a halo of light.
At this stage came the crisis. The medium convulsively in¬
tensified the grasp in which she held my hands. She shivered
and fell back as if lifeless, and at this instant I felt the tam¬
bourine frame or hoop on my right arm above the elbow, and
heard the jingle as it was shaken up and down. Mr. Holmes
lost no time in bringing a light, the rays of which he carefully
shaded from the medium’s face. There, sure enough, was the
stout wooden hoop, strongly fortified with an iron ring, sus¬
pended from my arm—the very tambourine hoop which we
had identified before the seance began. I had still hold of the
medium’s hands, which held mine with a death-like grip, her
body apparently lifeless, and her exposed eyeballs turned up,
so that nothing but the white part was visible. The strain
upon her nervous system had evidently been a severe one, and
it was quite apparent that Mr. Holmes considered it so ; but
the lamp being extinguished, she soon came round, and
“Rosa,” through her, prattled away as lively as ever. The
spirit urged me to be certain that the manifestation had oc¬
curred under satisfactory test conditions, which I gladly ad¬
mitted. I was also asked by Mrs. Tebb and Mr. Leighton as
to whether I had allowed the medium’s hands to pass from my
grasp. I said I had not, neither had she made any effort to
detach them; but, on the contrary, seemed as if afraid I
wanted to release my hold.
Mrs. Holmes has favoured us with the following
statement about the development of her mediumship :—
“ I was horn in the year 1842, at Aurora, New
York. In my younger days I knew nothing about
I Spiritualism, but from my infancy could see spirits at
intervals daily; I also possessed the gift of second-
sight, and often saw events connected with our family,
weeks or days before they actually occurred. I saw
my father’s death two weeks before he entered the
spirit world; I saw this whole scene, including the
two men who laid him out, who were entire strangers
to our family, and towards the close of the vision my
sister, who was with me, saw the scene too. I often
turn out of the way of spirits in the streets, not for the
moment being able to distinguish them from mortals.
When a child I was in the habit of playing with spirit
children; my mother often scolded me for it. She
told me that I was out of my senses, and talking to
devils. This often made me cry a great deal; and I
would go and play with them at the end of the lane,
where my mother could not see me.
“ At the age of fifteen, while living at Toledo, Ohio,
I was taken ill with the dropsy, and at the age of
seventeen was so bad with it that the physicians gave me
up ; I had then been seventeen days without anything to
eat, and only a teaspoonful of water to drink now and
then. The doctors were much perplexed at the fact of
my living so long without food. I could not lie down,
and sat all the time pillowed in an arm chair. When
I was declared to be at the point of death, the minister
and some of the members of the Methodist Church to
which I belonged, came in to pray for me. The minis¬
ter was Elder Pratt, one of the most eminent preachers
in America, and known to some extent among Wesleyans
in England; he died about two years ago. As he
knelt with his arms on a chair, praying for me, the
chair withdrew from under his hands and travelled
half across the room ; he looked at it as if doubting
the evidence of his senses, brought it back to its first
place, and at once it travelled away again. He said
that he had heard speak of omens and forerunners of
death, though he had not believed in them, but he
had no doubt that that was one.
“ I then felt many hands passing over me. I was
conscious at the time, but could only speak in a
whisper. The rubbing and passing of hands pained
me, caused me to perspire, and made the water run
Aug. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
61
from me like rain, I said to my brother, ‘ If you don’t
take those people away they will smother me.’ He
said that no one was touching me, but I persisted that
I felt the hands. The next night Elder Pratt came
again, and my chair ran away from him across the
room, carrying me in it. On the third night he came
again; several chairs moved, there were rappings
about the room, and I felt hands touching me. On
the fifth night the dropsy was entirely gone, but I was
too weak to walk.
“ A little orphan German girl, who had been adopted
by me, Sophy Slide, aged sixteen, was with me on
the ninth night, when I requested my brother to get
me some water, as I felt like fainting, after which
I lost consciousness. When he returned he found me
talking German to Sophy, who remarked to him, ‘ I
think Jennie’s real mean that she didn’t speak German
to my mother before she died.’ My brother told her
that I could not speak German. Sophy replied, * She’s
been talking German, and she says that she’s my
mother.’ That was my first control as a trance-
medium, and in the course of it Sophy’s mother told
her that she had hidden seventy-five dollars away in a
particular part of the roof of' the house she last lived
in, and that Sophy was to get the money, and pay it to
the Sisters of Charity, who were then taking care of
two little babies, Sophy’s twin brothers. The child
went there and found the money in a little buckskin
bag; directly she returned I was entranced again.
Her mother told her to keep ten dollars herself, and to
give the rest of the money to the Sisters of Charity.
“ This was all noised abroad among the Germans in
the town, many of whom came to visit me ; sometimes
I was entranced in their presence, and they would ask
to have their fortunes told. Sometimes my brother
would come in and find me sitting at the table en¬
tranced, talking to a circle of Germans making them¬
selves at home with beer and pipes. At last these
visits became a nuisance and were stopped.
“ Shortly afterwards I was controlled by ‘ Rosa ’ as
she now calls herself. In earth-life she was a little
Chippewa Indian girl, who was killed by lightning
when only four years old, while pulling up roots in the
woods. Now, she is* well-known among Spiritualists
all over the United States. Although I could not then
walk unassisted, when she controlled me she would
make me run out into the woods, and gather roots;
these she steamed and dished up at home and made me
drink. My brother thought that I was mad, and
ought to be locked up, but the roots cured me.
“ All these things made a great commotion in the
Methodist church at Toledo, where everybody knew
me. "When I went to church the rappings and moving
of furniture sometimes began there, and once the minis¬
ter’s chair was moved; Elder Pratt at once invited me
to go home, which made me weep bitterly, as it was
not my fault. He, Mrs. Ware, the Kelsey’s, the Col¬
lins’s, and others, then visited me, to pray with me,
and get rid of the noises about the house. Elder Pratt
told me to repeat a short prayer, and say, ‘ Satan ! get
thee behind me!’ But instead of obeying the com¬
mands they would make more noise than ever. He
was sure it was the devil, and I then thought so too.
“ One night while he was alone with me, I went
into the trance state for nearly half-an-hour; when I
awoke again he was weeping bitterly. He said—‘ Mrs.
Eerris ’-—for that was the name of my late husband—
* I do not wish you to fight against this power any
more; it is not evil, for my wife has been here talking
to me. She died twenty years ago, a good Christian,
and must now be an angel in heaven. If one pure
angel can'come this way, I believe another can come too.’
“ All this time we knew nothing of Spiritualism, and
first heard of it from Mr. Henry Breed, a leading mer¬
chant, well-known throughout Ohio; he is living at
Toledo still. He had, while travelling away from
home, been at some seances with Miss Kate Eox and
her sister, and he was then the only person in Toledo
who knew anything about Spiritualism. He asked me
whether I knew what the powers were ? I told him
I believed that it was the Devil, or evil spirits. Up to
that time it had never occurred to me that my deliver¬
ance from the dropsy had been effected by spirits, and
through spirit influence. He told me about Spiri¬
tualism; so we held regular seances at which Elder
Pratt and others attended, and began to investigate.
Three Roman Catholic priests came and said that they
could banish the spirits; they threw holy water over
me, and the musical instruments we had bought for
the seances ; they offered up a prayer, and made many
incantations; then we put out the lights, and all tried
to stop the ’manifestations. The musical instruments
flew about the room in the most furious way, the pic¬
tures fluttered against the walls, and we never had
such strong manifestations before. One of the priests
was touched by the spirits, and so thoroughly fright¬
ened that when the candle was lighted once more, he
would not allow it to be put out again, the whole party
being thqroughly convinced of the spirit power.
“ Gradually I began to have more confidence in the
manifestations and in the spirits who produced them.
At that time trance manifestations and table motions
were usually given through me, and I used to be con¬
trolled by all kinds of spirits, mostly the friends of- the
sitters present; and nearly all the Methodists in the
place became Spiritualists in consequence, Elder Pratt
included. He admitted the facts sometimes from the
pulpit, and unreservedly announced his belief to private
friends; he said that he did not think that it was evil.
“ The manifestations after a time worried me, and
three years after they first began, I resolved to leave
the neighbourhood, and to break them pff if I could. I
went to visit my sister Mrs. Lyons, at Monroe City,
Michigan. She is now living at Coldwater, Michigan.
She belonged to the Presbyterian church. I hesitated
to go to church with her, lest the noises should follow
me; but she assured me that the noises would not take
place in her church. Directly the minister finished his
sermon I was entranced by the spirit of my father,
who made me rise and criticise the sermon which had
just been delivered. It is a very common practice in
many parts of the United States for gentlemen to rise
and comment on a sermon at its close, but it is more
unusual for a lady to do so. My father closed by say¬
ing that he would give through me a. public address
that evening in the open-air, from the verandah of my
sister’s house. That evening crowds of people assem¬
bled in the street. My father entranced me, and gave
an address to them for three-quarters of an hour.
Lawyer Tilden called in at the close, and said that it
was one of the best and most logical sermons he
had ever heard. That Sunday was the first day on
which I was ever entranced in public. Sometimes I
am entranced now, and made to give an address at the
close of a seance. I am entranced so quickly as to place
it beyond my power to prevent it.
“ About this time a number of spirits organised them¬
selves into a band to control the manifestations at my
seances; since then I have travelled in all parts of the
United States, Canada, and Central America, and am
well-known among Spiritualists from one end of the
country to the other.
“ Every day I see spirits, now and then, while in my
normal state, but at seances I never see them in my
normal state; I then only see them when I am en¬
tranced. When in my normal state I see spirits by
indirect vision only; when I turn my eyes and look
straight at them, they vanish. "When I shut my eyes,
I see them better than with my eyes open; they stand
before me like a pictui’e seen on the ground glass of a
photographic camera. When my eyes are open, I see
objects in the room in addition to the spirits, who look
just as real and solid as mortals, and cut off my view of
objects behind them. An object, say a table, between
me and the spirit, cuts off my view of a portion of the
spirit; if I then shut my eyes, I see the whole of the
spirit, but not the table or other objects in the room.”
After Mrs. Holmes gave us the foregoing narrative,
she was entranced by the little spirit Rosa, who said,
“ I want to tell you a little about the spirits who give
the manifestations. Eirst, there is Belle, an Italian
girl, and the controlling guide of the medium ; then
there is John, a Spaniard, and Marie Lavoix, a French¬
woman. Richard and Clarence are two spirits who
make their voices audible to the sitters at seances, and
Maria Higgins sings beautiful poetry through the
medium when she entrances her. I talk sometimes,
too, with the direct voice in a childish whisper; I get
into your pockets and steal everything you have got;
I have very little hands, which go right down into the
bottoms of your pockets ; but I always put everything
back again. [Here Rosa stopped to laugh.] There
are twenty-four spirits altogether in our band; the
others not named by me are higher than we seven who
do the work ; the others stand in the room fo see that
everything is correctly done, and we are ‘ under the
balance ’ of these spirits. There are spirits who try to
interfere with the manifestations, but our outside band
stops them ; sometimes, near the close of a seance, our
band will let some of the spirit friends of the sitters
come in. Many spirits come to the seances and try to
form faces so that their friends can recognise them.
Sometimes they so crowd in the room, and are so
anxious to make themselves known, that it materially
interferes with our manifestations.”
In the course of the next few weeks more informa¬
tion will be collected about Mrs. Holmes’s mediumship,
which, from the little we have seen, appears to be of a
valuable description.
Spimtualism ix Dalstox. — The following resolution
was passed at a meeting of the council of the Dalston Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism held last Thursday
evening:—“That a Special General Meeting be summoned
for Monday evening, the 16th September, 1872, at 8 o'clock
precisely, for the purpose of confirming an alteration of the
prospectus and rules. That the above meeting, after transact¬
ing the business, take the form of a conversazione, to com¬
memorate the establishment of the association.”
Bjsixg ix the Aik.—The following appeared in the
Christian World a week or two ago:—“Sir,—I have been
informed that at some church meetings in Devonshire, during
religious excitement, several persons have been seen rising off
the floor and floating in the room. Can any of your readers
confirm the assertions made ? During the present yes and no
controversy respecting S Spiritualistic phenomena,’.the place
and date of so public an evidence would be useful to ministers
and deacons, if given through the columns of the Christian
World.—I am, yours tru’y, Enmore Jones, Enmore-park, S.E.”
THE SPIRIT’S MESSAGE.
The following lines, given through the mediumship of a lady, have been
sent to us for publication:—
Go in thy simple seeming,
Robed round with pure delight,
And carry our written message
To those that dwell in night;
Tell them that joy awaiteth
(Yea, even here below)
All who can hear our words of love,
And bid us welcome now.
Go, tell the toiling mother
Who earns her children’s bread,
She need not curse existence,
Nor wish that life were fled.
Above her stand bright angels
With comfort for her ear,
Would she but lift her weary head,
And listen without fear.
Would she but hear us nightly,
When other sounds are hushed,
Voices would whisper lovingly
To soothe the heart now crushed;
More rest it were than slumber
To weariest limbs ere given,
To feel the guardian spirit’s hand,
Or hear her speak of heaven.
Go, woman, to thy sisters
Who sink beneath tlfeir toil,
Whose loving deeds are answered
By words that seem to soil ;
Say these shall strike them harmless
If they can only feel
The spirits waiting close at hand,
To comfort, save, and heal.
But most of all go seeking
Thy sisters lost to shame,
And show them all they forfeit
By dishonouring woman’s name;
Tell them that heaven is near them.
If they will enter in,
And follow those bright messengers
Away from paths of sin.
When women shall have finished
The work we wait to give,
Whten they have shown men rightly
How they shall rightly live:
Then will they ask no longer
For “ equal ” rights and place.
For woman’s right is love and light
To all the human race.
OTomspontintce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinion
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALITY.
Sir,—An intelligence once expressing itself through the
organisation of another said to me—“ It is most desirable, for
the sake of happiness, to cultivate spirituality. There are
those even in the spirit world with varied powers, and possess¬
ing force for their impulsion, yet who are ill at ease, feeling
the lack of something in their natures. The lack is that of
spirituality.”
I asked—“What is spirituality?”
The Intelligence answered thus—“ It is that seeking of the
soul to go forth and identify itself with the elements from
whence it sprung.”
It is nearly three years since this question was answered
me. I have often pondered over it. I cannot now define
spirituality. I deem it a fascinating mystery, never clearly to
be defined. But it is a mystery I have felt. It is an effect
coming to me at times from all visible and tangible matter.
Tt comes with most force when the mind is in repose and the
body healthful and vigorous. It is in such conditions I can
best feel the beautiful influence of sky, cloud, and sunshine, of
tree, leaf, and flower. It is in the varying shades of forest
green, refreshing the eye and sending their softly-tinted and
warming rays into the dark chambers of the brain. It comes
like a breath of new life from the ocean, swept by the
morning breeze and flecked with caps of white ; it is like a
soothing opiate in the hush of some landscape slowly being
shut in by the evening shadows ; it is in the atmosphere of
association and history which is felt about old monuments,
tombs, and ancient churches ; it is in the air of mystery sur¬
rounding structures built by unrecorded races ; it is a languid
voluptuousness under the palmy and warm breath of the
tropics; an awesome and majestic strain in the cold splendour
of the Poles. It brings a sense of mystery, and a wonder
almost akin to fear as I gaze into space with its stupendous
machinery, whirl and interwhirl of worlds, while at vast inter¬
vals comets seemingly dash madly into the intricacies of their
orbits, yet all governed by the perfection of order and regu¬
larity. It is a wonder as great when I regard the anatomy
and life of the tiniest insect—it is a wonder which reaches its
climax when I contemplate myself—the consciousness of all
these things, when I ask, “ What am I ? Whence came I?”
and can only answer, “ I am seemingly of all that is.”
I repeat again the spirit’s answer, ■ That seeking of the soul
to go forth and identify itself with the elements from whence
it sprung.” Perhaps force or matter—call it what you may
—meeting and combining with force, at last evolved conscious¬
ness. Words are feeble to attempt conveying a vague, per¬
haps mistaken sense of being’s mystery. We feel that
spirituality is the ever-increasing sense and consciousness of
our assimilation with all nature. As it becomes fuller, every
day is a day of new, fresh, and friendly recognition and dis¬
covery of our relations to the visible and invisible universe.
We see the visible, we feel the invisible ; all that meets the
eye is the flower ; what is felt is the fragrance. With the
fuller spirituality we pine no longer for a single home, for
home is felt everywhere.' In the clear mirrors of memory we
carry all past scenes, remembrances, and absent faces. All
pain and bitterness fade out; a token that all evil is but
crudity; which must, in time, slough off and be forgotten. In
the private park of memory there must be no unwelcome
intruders. It banishes all envy or hatred of others, for each
one shall realise the ever-increasing richness of his own
powers. It allows no slovenly haste, for every act, thought,
and minutest defail of daily life shall be known as one of the
notes in the eternal melody of existence which we would not
slur over; no excess, for temperance in every exercise of
being’s attributes shall be recognised as the corner-stone and
foundation of all lasting pleasure ; no despairing grief at part¬
ing with our dearest, when it is clearly seen how life is inter¬
woven with life in the end'ess strand of being ; no weariness
of existence, for it is the realisation of the Divine mind whose
day is as a thousand years, whose thousand years a day.
Spirituality seems the richest sense of pleasure, yet the most
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15,1872
undefinable. It is emotional, lingering and resting in'sensa¬
tion conferred by all nature, animate and inanimate. The
soul so elevated thrills and rejoices even in storm and tempest.
It is, as it were, attuned to these wild strains, and in transports
sends forth its own responsive notes. It feels itself no stranger
in the universe, but a part of all that is. As the child, im¬
pelled by love, bounds into the parent’s arms, so goes forth
the spiritualised soul to meet the elements from whence it
came. Prentice Mulford, of California.
[Or, as Miss Simpkinson wrote in her album,—
“ There is a calm, a holy feeling,
Vulgar minds can never know,
O’er the bosom softly stealing,
Chastened grief—delicious woe En.]
' SPIRITUALISM AND EVOLUTION.
Sir,—In regard to the Darwin theory of natural selection,
that there is no essential distinction between man and the
lower animals, nor throughout the animal world, I am made
to say, “ Itis no mere questionit should be that it is a mere
question of degree and mode of development and line of
divergence which differentiates the whole—or the meaning is
reversed—and may I add that Mr. Darwin endeavours to show
that the mind of man is shadowed forth in the lower animals,
as so finely exemplified by Dr. Gall, the phrenologist, and,
indeed, by Bacon himself. But Mr. Wallace is not content
with this, but endeavours to deny to the lower ^animals, their
instincts, and to show that all is the result of observation and
experience, and thus it is, alas, that men strive to make facts
square with their theories. Because the question naturally
occurs, not only as to what becomes of the souls or minds of
the lower forms of life, but how is it that man inherits none
of their instincts which .clearly overleap experience ? how is
it that these wonderful powers have not been further developed,
but are lost? and Mr. Wallace’s denial of the existence of such
powers is as futile as it is in utter defiance of fact and of
millions of facts in the very law of the life of the lower
animals. The question is of such extreme importance and
deep interest, as to demand our most serious and close atten¬
tion, and perfect freedom and frankness. In fact, if Mr.
Wallace could make out his case, it would be a complete revo¬
lution in our conception of nature. To me, instinct is an
unconscious vita! action, and impulse to an end, corresponding
to the “formative principle” and energies resulting in the
formation of the animal that has the instinct; and why should
the unconscious vital power in harmony with the requirements
of the possessor be denied, any more than the power of the
germ cell to develop into the organised being ? One does not
wonder at the present tendency with some to endeavour to
build up the mind wholly by a mechanical process, that is, by
accumulated experiences. But that a Spiritualist should do
this thing, and deny instinct itself for the sake of an hypo¬
thesis is a little strange. Newton said that whatever the
cause in nature might be, at any rate it was not mechanical;
and Professor Owen asserts this also, and I, who have been
called materialist, assert it too, and the spiritual powers of
the human mind, as well as of the instinct of the lower
animal, and in the principle of their development, and in
the fact of clairvoyance, which Mr. Wallace believes in,
boo, and in the face of his unspiritual mechanical views of
nature, and hypothesis of evolution.
Boulogne-sur-Mer. Henrv G. Atkinson.
THE EFFICACY OF PRAYER.
Sir,—It appears to me that a great deal of the difficulty
connected with the discussion of this question would be cleared
away, if we endeavour to start with a right notion as to what
prayer really is. That a correct understanding on this point
is necessary is surely evident, when one reads the delirious
letter of Mr. Hall in the July number of the Spiritualist.
The mental obfuscation of a writer who can say, as Mr. Hall
does, that his opponents are “ criminals of the deepest dye,”
and that they are working “ not only to destroy the mind,” but
also “ to kill the soul,” is perhaps too dense to be cleared up
by any amount of reasoning ; but there are others, I hope, on
Mr. Hall’s side in this controversy who are willing to accord
to their opponents the courtesy of believing them to be
honest, and vsfho do not deem travelling with them on a dark
night, and in a lonely place, to be altogether dangerous.
What is prayer ? is a question which requires to be answered
before we can proceed to discuss its efficacy. Speaking
broadly, prayer consists—
1st. Of supplication : wherein a change in the mind of God
is asked, as when a peTson prays for something, which but for
the prayer he would not have received ; or when he implores
^deliverance from some evil condition from which he would
not have been rescued but for his cry for mercy.
2nd. Then there is 'comprehended under the term prayer
that spoken or unspoken utterance which, recognising the
goodness of God in all His doings, devoutly thanks Him for
what is, and which further seeks to bring*the mind of him who
prays into closer harmony with the Divine will and its mode
of action.
Now the objections which have been urged against this first
conception of prayer have never been even so much as
touched upon by those who support it. It is charged with
involving a denial either of God’s goodness or His wisdom.
And what answer do we find'to this charge ? None whatever.
Mr. Hall gets angry, and flings hard names about him, but he
does not even attempt to meet the argument. He has some¬
thing to say about the inconsistency of his opponent with the
many initials asking aid from a finite being, and refusing to
seek it from a Being infinite. But where lies the inconsist¬
ency ? Is not the fact of God, being infinitely good, wise,
and powerful, an amply sufficient reason why He should not
be implored to do, or refrain from doing, something which He
had not or had determined upon ? It is because our fellow
men, whether embodied or disembodied, are finite, that we
need to solicit aid from them. Were they infinitely wise, and
good, and powerful—in other words, were they God, there
would be no need of asking aught from them, for their infinite
power .would supply that which their infinite wisdom saw
would be best for us. Now when a man asks from God some
special gift, he is practically saying either that God does not
know that he requires it—thus denying the infinite know¬
ledge of God—or that He is not willing that he should have
it—thus denying His infinite gopdness. Have these objections
been met ? I think not.
I can understand the prayer of a man who looks upon God
through orthodox spectacles, but I cannot understand that of
one who has realised the full beauty and benevolence of the
gospel of Spiritualism. There is some reason in praying to a
being who can doom any living thing to eternal punishment,
for such a being is unjust, and may, like Christ’s unjust judge,
grant that for importunity which he refused for justice; but
how can we reconcile similar prayers to Him whom modern
Spiritualists have been led to recognise as the Infinitely Good
and Wise One.
To prayer, however, in the other sense of which I have
spoken, there can be no objection. Itis the utterance of a
heart laden over with thankfulness, and must become only
the deeper and intenser the more our knowledge grows. It is
only in this sense that the expression “ efficacy of prayer” has
any meaning. That prayer opens up the mind to receive
spiritual impressions, as one of your correspondents urges,
there can be no doubt; but what kind of prayer is likely to
lead to the highest inspirations ? Is it that which selfishly
asks for some special bounty, or that which, acknowledging
the goodness of the Lord, only approaches Him with the voice
of thanksgiving ?
Like Mr. Hall, I have no particular love for anonymous
writing, and hence subscribe myself,
Egbert Colquhoun, L.E.C.P., -Ed.
59, Vauxhall-walk. .
Sir,—I was much pleased at reading the short, suggestive,
and rational letter of “ Adamants,” in reply to mine, and
with most of it I fully agree. I did write as if the purpose of
prayer was to change the will of the Creator, because that is,
I believe, the usual conception, but not necessarily, and, there¬
fore, my own. I should like, however, to ask “ Adamanta’s ”
reason for the statement that “ prayer is communion with the
Highest,” communion being, of course, distinct from medita¬
tion.
But your other correspondents either do not see difficulty,
or they know not how to meet it. My letter was not intended
or adapted to discourage the practice of prayer by those who
think it useful. It was meant to discourage that reliance upon
it as an infallible resource, which, so far as my experience and
observations have gone, does tend to sap the strength of the
character.
Moreover the flippant and supercilious style adopted by
both writers is, I think, eminently unbecoming in the discus¬
sion of the momentous problem of Spiritualism. I can easily
afford to neglect their irrelevant sneers at the “ athlete ” with
the “ big name,” his cleverness and his guesses—“ the criminal
of the deepest dye,” and his wickedness, and will wait until
something worthy of the name of argument is put forward in
reply.
On one or two points only will I make a remark.
1st. I cannot agree with Mr. Hall in thinking that to rest
happily in a delusion is better than to toil on with painful
steps, if need be, in the pursuit of truth. Truth, for its own
sake, is a higher rule. For the dangerous consequences of
truth, apprehended by some timid minds, I reck little, nor am
I easily scared by the shadow of such approaching phantoms.
2nd. Mr. Jones says, “ No right-minded pupil would act upon
his own judgment, even though failure results, instead of going
to the master for information.” To this I reply that I have
had much to do with teaching, and so far from agreeing with
the illustration, I plainly say that the pupil who resolves to
act on his own judgment, and fight through a difficulty,
failures notwithstanding, is, in my experience, more likely to
do good work in the world than one who is constantly asking
for help and guidance.
3rd. Mr. Hall says he can easily show the utter fallacy of
my argument. Why then withhold his hand? He must be
aware that the argument is not solely mine—that it has been
put forward time and again, and yet remains unmet. Does
he not see that the faith of a large number of thoughtful men
in the value of prayer is shaken or destroyed ? Is it right,
then, in him to lose an opportunity of restoring it ? Even
since my letter was written a remarkable article has appeared
in a recent review, the writer of which takes a position yet
more antagonistic. It has caused some stir. Allow me, there¬
fore, to suggest to Mr. Hall the wisdom of employing his able
pen in drawing up a complete reply to the arguments and the
doubts that harass so many thinking minds. The editor of the
review will no doubt gladly give it a place, and Professor
Tyndall will gratefully acknowledge the value of an argument
enabling him to' set at rest the doubts of his “ friend.” I will
not pretend ignorance of the meaning of Mr. Hall’s six initials,
and trust, with a little inquiry, he will be able to understand
mine. ' W. L. A., JB.Sc.
Sir,—I send you a few extracts from a review of Professor
Tyndall’s Paper on “ The Calculable Value of Prayer,” which
review appeared in the Nonconformist for July 10th, 1872.
I wish you could have given the whole of the review, for I have
been obliged to leave out much that is most valuable ; still, I
hope even these few extracts may help some of your readers,
who seem willing to theorise only upon a subject the true
value of which each individual could prove for himself.
The purport of the Professors most extraordinary paper is
thus explained by the reviewer :—
“ He would have a hospital ward on which the prayers of
Christendom should be focussed, like the mirrors of Archi¬
medes, for a sufficiently long time to afford statistical results.
He thinks the statistics of this ward, compared with that of
wards in every other respect except this similarly conducted,
would give an unimpeachable criterion of the value of prayer.
It would seem that the learned professor is not joking when
he starts this amazing suggestion. He keeps his countenance.
He even manages to look solemn. He calls his speculation a
serious attempt to estimate the value of prayer. He is not at
all conscious that he is talking nonsense.
“ It is of the essence of prayer that it should be spon¬
taneous, a natural breathing of pious aspiration. If it is
offered in order that ‘ the absolute calculable value of prayer
may be ascertained,’ it is degraded to a worse mockery than
the lowest deeps of paganism have ever reached. If the re¬
sults of prayer are to be classified, analysed, built up into
tables of statistical returns, it is no longer prayer. The life
of it has been dissected out, and we might just as well beat
Chinese gongs or make a pilgrimage by crawling on all fours
to some distant temple or shrine. In fact there would be
more real devotion, more genuine prayer, in these pagan exer¬
cises than in Professor Tyndall’s suggestion, because in them
the attitude of the worshipper would be one of dependence
and supplication, and not of intellectual analysis.
‘ ‘ Prayer for the most outward boon becomes sublime if it is
spiritual, while it is inexpressibly vulgar and revolting, if it
rests in any outward object.
“ Those who believe in the efficacy of prayer have no such
coarse mechanical notion about it as that its value is depen¬
dent on the number of persons who join by common consent
in one petition. They do not suppose that the benefit of
prayer can be secured like those of a charitable institution by
vote and interest,—or that a prayer is influential just as a
monster petition presented to Parliament is, by ignorant folks,
supposed to be influential, in proportion to the crowd of signa¬
tures appended to it. Why even in Parliamentary petitions
this method is somewhat discredited, and the forcible reason¬
ing of a single man is often more influential than the unin¬
telligent clamour of a multitude. The international copyright
regulations were more affected by Thomas Carlyle’s personal
appeal to Parliament than by the heap of forgotten petitions
which preceded or followed it. So with the special answers
to prayer which are referred to by those who believe in ‘ Parti¬
cular Providence.’
“ Does Professor Tyndall suppose that any of these persons
would think their petitions safer,—more certain of receiving
respectful consideration in the High Court of Heaven,—if they
ascended to the skies endorsed by the simultaneous petitions
of the whole race of man ? He must know that such a process
would utterly extinguish the very essence of such prayers, and
all those who pray most fervently are most anxious to do so
‘ in secret, ’ after they have entered into the closet and shut
the door.” F. J. T.
St. Leonards.  —
Sir,—I write to thank Mr. S. C.Hall for his able letter, whereby
I have been led to see the error of supposing that there can be
any truth in the arguments of a writer who signs with many
initials. I do not think that Mr. Hall has brought this point
more prominently forward than is necessary, for in these
degenerate times there are, alas, many so culpably careless
that they quite overlook the length of a man’s name or title,
their attention being wholly engrossed by what he has
to say.
Having totally effaced the effects of W. L. A., B. Sc's letter
from my mind, I hope Mr. Hall will go a step further, and aid
in establishing his new convert.
Firstly, will he kindly say if the writers and teachers to
whom he refers are the contributors of the literature published
by the Eeligious Tract Society ?
Secondly, will he mention the names of the soundest think¬
ers and most intellectual men and women of this or any age,
whose reasoning opposes that of W. L. A.y B.Sc. ?
In the third place, will he show me-how to reconcile prayer
with faith ? Prayer—the constant asking for what the crea¬
tures want—with faith in a perfect Being who doeth all things
well! Will he further show how one can be gratified without
injury to another?
“And brought out Israel from among them, for His mercy endureth for
ever. . .. But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, for His mercy
endureth for ever.”—Psalm cxxxvi. 11, IS.
Will Mr. Hall also explain how the “ readings ” and indica¬
tions supposed to be the answer to prayer may be distin¬
guished from inclinations that result from the workings of a
man’s own mind ?
Finally, will he unite with me in prayer for the success of a
relative of mine in an important examination for which he is
now very lazily preparing, and on whose behalf the prayers of
his relations have been requested ?. K.
Malvern.  
Sir,—I have read the letters in your paper on this subject
with much interest, and see that there is one point on which
all the disputants are agreed, namely, that true and pure
prayer raises the spiritual state of a man, thereby enabling
higher and purer spirits than usual to get near him, and help
him. Mr. Varley, who started the discussion, has told me
that he knows this.
This limits the question at issue, and the point now re¬
quiring consideration is—“ Can a man personally, by prayer,
reach the highest and purest of all spirits, or has He established
laws leaving these things to His subordinates?”
It is a law thht a man shall die if his head be cut off, and
no amount of prayer will alter this law. If it be a law that
the higher spirits shall alone aid those next below them, why
pray to God about the small matters of time and sense ?
X.
Sir,—The following short leading article, which I cut from
the Daily Telegraph, summarises the ideas on the efficacy of
prayer, recently published by Professor Tyndall:—“Much
attention has already been excited by a short but striking
paper in the Contemporary Review, on the question whether
the Deity does or does not give a practical assent to the
prayers of men. In these days of bold speculation, no theme
is deemed too solemn to be touched by the finger of analysis;
and the article throws down one of the most daring challenges
to be found even in the criticism of a generation which has
listened to the voice of men like Comte, Herbert Spencer,
Tyndall, and Huxley. The essay is anonymous, but it is pre¬
faced by a note from Professor Tyndall, and it is known to
have been written by a man of great eminence in his own
high profession. The author seeks to obtain an accurate
measure of the degree in which prayer for the sick alters the
rates of mortality. He would place in a particular hospital a
number of persons suffering from diseases which have been
ascertained to cause, on an average, a certain number of
deaths. All believers in the efficacy of prayer would then be
invited to beseech, during four or five years, that the Almighty
would specially interpose on behalf of those patients. If the
prayers were answered, the death-rate would, of course, be
less than in the hospitals that were not so highly favoured,
and scientific men would detect the influence of a spiritual
force beyond their province, and appreciable by none of their
gross tests. The distinguished author, in fact, challenges the.
believers in a special Providence to fight a battle on the field
of statistics. We suspect, however, that he is more profoundly
versed in science than in the metaphysics of theology, for he
has fallen into the mistake of comparing two things of which
there can be no common measure. He might as reasonably
propose to test the relative strength of a fish and a bird by
means of, a combat waged in the water or in mid-air. The
advocate of the bird would say that the force of his client
could not be measured in the water, and the advocate of the
fish that his client could obtain no fulcrum for itself in empty
space. In order to make the test accurate, the author of the
article in the Contemporary must assume, first, that pious
men would accept the challenge, and specially pray for the
patients of the chosen hospital; secondly, that they would
pray with as much fervency as they do for their friends and
relatives; thirdly, that the only way in which the Almighty
answers prayer is by directly granting the request, and that
one form of response is not to send peace of mind to the
applicant; and, finally, that the Deity would so sanction the
challenge as specially to intervene for the enlightenment of
the Statistical Society, eminent surgeons, and brilhant phy¬
sicists. We are obliged to apply plain words to a high theme,
in order to show that the challenge does not meet the first
conditions of logical fairness. It is a great misfortune that
theologians are not better acquainted with the methods and
the results of science; hut it is also a great misfortune that
men of science do not push their inquiries farther into the
domain of theological and metaphysical thought. Too often
Aug. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
63
the combatant of the one school, so far from refuting his op¬
ponent, does not even see what he means ; and thus it is in
the case of the eminent man who has challenged the believers
in the power of prayer to a battle of statistics.”
As yet, invective and passion, instead of thought and
argument, have been brought to bear upon W. L. A., B. Sc.,
by his opponents, who will find some reasons in support of
their opinions, in a very good article in the Spectator of
August 3rd. The editor answers a recent article by Mr.
Francis Galton, F.E.S., in the Fortniqlttly Review, and gives
the following summary of Mr. Galton’s statements:—
“ Mr. Galton says no test is needed. The experience of
mankind is already conclusive. Prayer never is answered,
because doctors never have relied on prayers for the sick, be¬
cause Christian Sovereigns who are universally prayed for die
on the-average sooner than other rich people,—probably from
a family tendency, the Christian Sovereigns of Europe being
all members of a single family or clan, all in fact, in one way
or other, the descendants of one man—because missionary
ships, which are prayed for, are no safer than slavers, which
are not; because prayerful persons do not outstrip secular
persons in the race of life, half our dukes, for example, being
the descendants of kings’ mistresses; because insurance offices
make no difference in favour of the pious, and because the
clerics who pray for the success of their enterprises more than
other people are not more successful in those enterprises. On
this evidence, which we shall not dispute, Mr. Galton
affirms that prayer has no efficacy, that belief in it will die
like any other superstition, and that it is, in all probability,' a
mere bleat, an expression of suffering which, like the bleat of
a sheep in pain, gives relief, we know not why.”
Brighton, Aug. 5. W. B.
To the Editor of “ The Spectator."
Sir,—In your notice of the 3rd inst. of Mr. Galton’s argu¬
ment for, the uselessness of prayer, you quote from him
without appearing to contradict it, that missionary ships,
which are prayed for, are no safer than slavers, which are not.
Is this certain ? Many years ago I heard it stated in a public
lecture by James Montgomery, the poet (not to be confounded
with Robert, or Satan Montgomery), that the annual ship to
the Moravian missionary stations among the Esquimaux had
never been lost in a period of about a hundred years, and was
insured at half the usual rate for ships voyaging in the same
seas, though I presume that Lloyd’s is as devoid of religious
sympathies as the Stock Exchange. I think this fact worth
noting, though my belief that God hears and answers prayers
does not rest on this kind of evidence.—I am, sir, &c.
Joseph John Mubphy.
Old Forge, Dtmmurry, Co. Antrim, August 5, 1872.
THE NEEB OF A SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION.
Sir,—I have read your admirable essay on the future move¬
ments in Spiritualism with intense satisfaction. These are
words, sir, not for the hour or the age, but for all time, ex¬
pressing a sound, liberal, and enlarged philosophy, and which
in itself is a noble philanthropy, showing a deep discernment
of the broad requirements of a grand movement. I had feared
the Spiritualists were becoming narrow-minded, and, as it were,
in a spiritual pride, exclaiming, “ Believe in the spirits, and all
else shall be added.” But, sir, in your address, I feel that all
is changed; for you would not isolate Spiritualism from the
science of the age, but look upon it as a noble branch of
learning, finding its correlations in all the other sciences, the
science of the man and mind crowning all, inviting all men of
intellect and study, as brothers, to unite with their beliefs to
be tested and their doubts to be solved. If there be a soul
enclosed within the body, we must define the essential nature
and action of each element and their reciprocal influence;
for when a “ Psychologist ” tells us that there is no proof of
the fact of a soul inhabiting the body, but little doubt of
the fact, it shows what an obscure and difficult subject lies
before us, and it is better to admit the difficulty of the
soul moulding the body with all the inherited ills of the flesh
or deformities we are liable to—no more of that. Difficulties
are the opportunities of the man of science. There is a grand
field and untrodden path before us ; let us only put free
minds and kind hearts to the work, and all will go well; and
no impatience, for the labour before us is for ages to come ;
each man in his hour can do but little, and some are
gifted in one way and some in another, and in such an insti¬
tution as you recommend, sir, each will bring his special
ability, or small or great discovery to the general home and
harvest. I hope, sir, the project wUl be accomplished, and I,
for one, shall most gladly support it. F. G. S.
THE TREATMENT OF CRIMINALS.
Sir,—On the eve of my departure from England, and after
the labours of the International Prison Congress, to which I
was delegated by our Government, I feel that I can in no
better way express my appreciation of what I have experienced
here from the hospitality and cordiality rendered by those
who invited us hither, than by frankly communicating the
impressions which I have received.
It is on behalf of the progress of the race, and not of any
single nation that our endeavours in the future must be based,
and if I find fault with what I have seen, you will understand
that it is done in furtherance of the grand principle which
ought to unite us all in one common brotherhood.
It is more than a week ago that I carried one of the cannon
balls there and back, which, during several weeks, your crimi¬
nals have to lift and to put down, to lift again, and to replace
for hours at a time. I am not a young man, and perhaps that
is the reason why I still feel in my back the effect of that
small exertion. I have watched men ascending that endless
ladder known as the tread-wheel, and I have turned away
from the spectacle ; 14,500 turns in one month done by human
labour for the sole purpose of having the workers tread and
climb, seems a waste, to say the least. May be that that could
be changed ; but those iron balls carried by word of command
to and fro, leave no impression of possible utility. On behold¬
ing the triangle on which prisoners are fastened who are about
to be stripped and flogged, I felt ashamed that as lately as
twelve years ago I should have dictated similar punishments
in the prisons under my charge. Thank God we have since
perceived our errors ; flogging is cast out of our disciplinary
programme, and the other performances I have just described
we never knew, nor do I believe that any country besides
Great Britain ever introduced them. Yet I am proud to add
that since our regeneration disciplinary punishments have
become less necessary ; in fact, their number at present is but
one-third of what it was under the less human code.
Your convicts, sir, are apparently derived from the unedu¬
cated classes. The rich seldom furnish recruits to their ranks.
It would seem obvious then that education is a great safe¬
guard in society, and that it is the great agency for reclaiming
the criminal. Let me urge also that the farce of reading, or
doing copies or sums for an hour, after a day’s prison labour,
is not calculated to effect much of a change in the education
or instruction of a convict.
The International Prison Congress, which was closed not
many days ago, has attracted the attention of all civilised
nations. It is a special feature of our age to attempt the cur¬
ing of'social defects. One of the most glaring of these is
criminality, and I have heard many strong and noble-minded
men on the platform, such as Mr. Hastings, Mr. Serjeant Cox,
Sir Walter Crofton, and others, too many to name, who are
engaged in the struggle against it. The deliberations of the
Congress have shown that the views on this subject differ
among them ; that one will ever be deemed the simplest and
most natural which requires the least apparatus, and has the
smallest pretensions.
In the carrying out of penal sentences, and in the care for
the prisoner, existing circumstances have to be taken into ac¬
count, besides the peculiarities of each nation or tribe, if the
pedagogically obtained elements of education are to take
effect. The mode of confinement is immaterial so long as it
adapts itself to the individual requirements of the prisoner.
We, sir, and I believe I express in this the feeling of most
foreign delegates, shall leave your shores determined to profit
and benefit by what we have learned. Allow me to remind
all and every one that we part deeply concerned about the
welfare of our prisoners.
An improved staff of officials may do something. But we
must not forget that society, oppressed by the existence of
criminality, must in a body arise and help to lift and to raise
it also. On this I believe we are all agreed. As to the other
practices now carried out in your prisons, let me express a
hope and a wish. Would that in two years’ time your tread¬
mill, lash, and cannon ball lugging were cast out of your pri¬
son code by Act of Parliament. The gain to the whole civi¬
lised world would be great in England’s example, while the
maintenance of these unprofitable practices often, in conversa¬
tion on the subject, brings the colour into the cheeks of some
of the best among your intelligent countrymen.—Yours, &c.,
EuaENE d’Alinge,
Delegate from the Kingdom of Saxony.
DECEPTION AND MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—Certain mediums are suffering because their hereto¬
fore friends feel they have lost confidence in the verity of
some of their manifestations, said to be spiritual. Such suffer¬
ing is felt by persons who, having in one pocket good silver
coin, have in the other bad ; and who, detected in the act of
issuing the bad, say it was an accident, and ask very inno¬
cently— “Did not you find on me good coin?”
In witnessing spiritualistic phenomena the mind, rising
above the mere perception of this world of action, he it in
sorrow or joy, perceives through those phenomena continued
life to itself and to others. During the intenseness of the
perception they cannot be detectives, cannot be ever on the
watch to test the medium ; and therein is the cruelly, shame¬
ful conduct of tricky mediums felt, "as it leads to false con¬
clusions, if the reputed answers are taken as the utterances of
a spirit friend.
Too often the plain fact is that they (the mediums) are only
half-sovereigns in mediumistic power, hut because they know
sovereigns exist, and are more esteemed than .half-sovereigns,
they try to pass themselves off for the larger, heavier coin,
and the result is that their half-sovereign powers are despised
or refused currency ; the image and superscription is defaced,
the coin is light, is damaged, and the currency is all but
stoppei).
Let mediums be true; if only half-sovereigns, rejoice in
being even that. Then the currency being only what it is, all
would accept and use them usefully.
Much has been written on spirit photographs, the “ make¬
ups ’’ and the real, and trickery has been justly punished.
Having taken a lead in denouncing the Holloway shams, I
consider that in equity I ought to state that I have seen two spirit
photographs stated by Mr. William Howitt to be likenesses of
two deceased sons, who died many years ago. Those were
produced at Holloway, while also Howitt and his daughters
were the sitters, and Spiritualists ought to know it. There
has, therefore, been some coffee sold with the chickory. This
is not to be wondered at, because so many public and private
mediums have been at Holloway, that it were strange indeed
if no result had been achieved by the production of the true.
This true makes us so deeply deplore the intense wrong
done to the sitters by producing the false—deplore the injury
the man has done to himself and family; deplore that the
artful has been, and can be so effectively practised, that no
one can confidently enter the studio, take a seat, and trust the
photographer.
I have an idea that one photographer will be elected by our
spirit friends, through whom they will come and show them¬
selves on the plates; chosen because of his integrity of
character—a man on whom the principles of Christianity, as
unfolded in the sermon on the Mount, have power. Such a
man for England, another for Scotland, and another for
Ireland, would bring joy to the bereaved, and do won-
drously amongst the Sadducees, the mere deists of the
day. John Jones.
Enmore-park, S.E.
P.S.—In future I intend to create an individualism by sign¬
ing myself “ Enmore Jones.” This I do, because several
“ Johns ” are movingfor and against Spiritualism. Welshmen
have nationally no surnames, all are merely repetitions, thus
John the son of John, therefore, John Jones ; Robert, the son
of David, therefore, Robert Davies. The sons, though born
in England, as I was, follow the custom, unless they break
away as I now do, in order that my sins of omission, and of
commission in connection with Spiritualism may be heaped on
the real offender.—Enmore Jones.
[During the last four years, we have had more experience in witnessing
manifestations through all kinds of mediums, than perhaps anybody else
in this country, and are glad to be able to testify that there has been, prac¬
tically speaking, and so far as we know, an entire absence of imposture
among recognised mediums, with the exception of the doings in spirit
photograpy which we recently exposed.—Ed.]
MIND AND BODY.
Sib,—When the letter of “ Senex ” appeared in your
columns, I felt that a very interesting subject had been
brought forward, and one worthy of fuff discussion.
Like “ Senex,” I have never felt satisfied with the explana¬
tion usually given of the apparent decay of the mental powers
in cases of disease like that which he adduced.
I can understand that many of the phenomena of delirium,
&c., may be accounted for on the theory that the mind re¬
mains in full possession of all its faculties, but is unable to
manifest them through disease of the bodily organs, just as
the intelligence at the end of a telegraph wire may lose con¬
trol over his instrument during a magnetic storm, and trans¬
mit nonsense for ,a similar reason. (I do not suggest this as
a perfect analogy, much less as a basis for reasoning. It is a
mere illustration.)
But I find it exceedingly difficult, and at present impossible,
to avoid a conviction that in many other cases the mind itself
is the sufferer. I cannot look upon an idiot in whom mental
powers have never been developed, or a lunatic in perfect
bodily health, without being driven to this belief. I know
many would at once aver that it is irrational. But I cannot
see the proof of the assertion. Varying as the mental faculties
undoubtedly do, is it impossible, or very improbable, that in
some instances one or more of them may be merely rudimen¬
tary, while others are disproportionably powerful? This of
itself, if in any high degree, would constitute mental disease.
But I must be short, and will, therefore, only add that I do
not in the least degree share the fear which Senex expresses,
lest this opinion should involve the hope of a future life in
any uncertainty. When I hear of the results that have fol¬
lowed the mental treatment of the insane and idiotic by wise
and loving men and women in this life, I rather entertain the
hope that better methods employed by wiser and more loving
spirits in the higher life to come, will reach and cure even
those desperate cases that seem beyond all earthly aid. It
seems to me that by adopting this opinion, we may entertain
a rational hope for the idiotic and the insane of the present,
while we trust to increasing knowledge and truer views of life
to lessen their number, or gradually to eliminate them in the
future. E. W. Claypole, B.A.
Bristol, Aug. 11th.
THE “SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Several of the oldest and best workers in the
Spiritual movement have consulted us about the more
frequent publication of this journal, and have begun to
collect subscriptions to partially cover the expenses of
the step.
It has been the custom in our young movement to
support the Spiritual periodicals by subscription. Ever
since its commencement the Spiritualist has neither
asked for nor received any such aid ; in consequence of
our exceptional attitude in this respect, we have been
subjected to very great commercial disadvantages, and
prevented thereby from publishing the paper at shorter
intervals.
Mr. C. E. Yarley, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, Mr. John
Jones, Mr. N. E. Daw, and other leading gentlemen
connected with the movement, are interesting them¬
selves in the more frequent publication of the Spiritualist,,
and have already collected about fifty pounds in further¬
ance of that object. Possibly a committee may be
formed to work at the raising of subscriptions. In the
meantime, those of our readers who think it to be for
the good of the movement that this journal should be
published at shorter intervals, are requested to make
remittances to the treasurer, “ N. E. Daw, Esq., Port-
man-chambers, Portman-square, London, "W.” or to
Mr. Coleman or Mr. John Jones. A list of subscriptions
will be published next month in our advertising
columns.
We shall be only too pleased to begin the fortnightly
or weekly publication of this journal in October next.
It is doubtfurwhether enough can he raised by sub¬
scription to cover the losses which weekly publication
would involve, but if a reasonable amount of support is
given, we will begin and carry on the work.
The circulation of the Spiritualist has been rising
steadily and slowly from the first.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT.
Brighton, Wednesday night.
Brighton has been astir for the past week, partly in con¬
sequence of the races just over, partly in consequence of the
opening of the new aquarium, and partly in consequence of
the influx of members of the British Association for 1872. Dr.
Carpenter, the president of the Association, was present at the
opening of the new aquarium ; he made a speech on the occa¬
sion, as well as at the luncheon in the Pavilion which followed.
It is not likely that Spiritualism will be introduced at this
meeting, unless in a paper by a private member. There are some
who were inclined to bring it forward in a more authoritative
manner, but it was thought that such a course might not be
considered respectful to Dr. Carpenter, who has taken such a
marked line of action in the matter. Mr. Crookes will not be
present at this meeting ; Mr. Serjeant Cox is not here yet.
but intends to come, if possible. Mr. Varley will probably
not be here, and if the subject of Spiritualism should crop
up, its opponents are likely to have the whole field to them¬
selves. If anything of interest transpires, I have taken
measures to secure full reports and particulars.
Telegraphic Soiree.—A telegraphic soiree was held
recently at the Royal Albert Hall of Arts and Sciences, South
Kensington, under the presidency of General Scott, in the
absence of the Prince of Wales, who was unexpectedly pre¬
vented from attending. Lord Lindsay and Mr. C. F. Yarley
were among the exhibitors of interesting scientific objects on
the occasion ; Lord Lindsay exhibited his photographs of the
total phase of the last solar eclipse. In the course of the
evening, wires were joined up from the Albert Hall to Kur-
rachee in India, via the Crimea, Circassia, Teheran, and the
Persian Gulf. A message was thus sent direct to India, and
an answer received in three or four minutes.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
0., Liverpool.—We did not consider the quality to be sufficiently
good.
In answer to the correspondent who wishes to know where to-
get a planckette, we think they are on sale at 15, Southampton-
row, Holbom, W.C.
The substitution of the letter “n” for “h”in W. L. A., B.Sc's,
communication, to which Mr. S. C. Hall called attention, was a
printer’s error, caused primarily by indistinct writing.
X.—The argument is, that because in one place certain manifesta¬
tions were genuine, therefore there has heen no imposture in
another place at another time. It is no use reasoning with such
people.
64
THE SPIliITU ALIST
Aug. 15, 1872
FACTS FOB, NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, mat it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena pf Spiritualism are
'actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
Jate years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers,' Mr. G. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Eussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a' farthing of pay for his
seances.
Mrs. De Morgan hag written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result Of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the hook, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be token by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Mr 0. F. Yarley, O.E., F.E.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while- the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. JudgaEdmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American 'Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Eecently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.E.S. (editor of the Quarterly
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Eoyal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Booh of Nature, by C. 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“ There is hut one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No :for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism X see a rain-cloud, if it he no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
mien reports of the speeches of spirits are printed m this
Journal, non-Sviritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether 'aBree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends.and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room he of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but notjalways, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac' some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among .the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are'produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No," and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a^ircle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
In the Press. A new Volume of Poems, price 2s. 6d.
AN INVALID’S CASKET. By J. H.
Powell, author of “Life Incidents and Poetic Pic¬
tures,” &c. “An Invalid’s Casket” is the result of
nearly seven years’ poetic musings, the majority of the
pieces being composed in America. The object of the
present issue is to secure (if possible) means, from its
sale, to enable the author to support his family. He Has
now for fifteen months been growing daily less able to
perform any kind of labour, owing to a disease which
keeps him in continual pain.
Intending Subscribers will confer a favour by forward¬
ing their Names, Addresses, and Subscriptions at once
to J. H. Powell, 179, Copenhagen-street, Caledonian-road,
London, N.
A
304pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
MRS. JENNIE HOLMES, late of New
Orleans, La., H.S.A., MUSICAL MEDIUM for
SPIRIT MANIFESTATIONS. Seances at 50, C -eat
Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W., at 8 o’clock p.m.
Admission, 5s.; Private Sittings for Spirit Consultation,
I to 5 p.m. 'Fee One Guinea.
Her powers as a medium have been a subject of
wonder and comment throughout the United States and
Canada. Her endorsements are from the most pro¬
minent gentlemen of America.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MES¬
MERIST and RUBBER. Clairvoyant Exami¬
nation and complete Diagnosis, One Guinea. Mes¬
merising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travel¬
ling expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161,
Hampstead-road, N.W.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may
honour him with their patronage, they can be
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm-of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St. James’s Street.
£ s.
Trousers, from ...    0 13
Vests
Black Suit, from
Unrivalled Black Doe
Tweed Suit 
0 -7
3 0
1 1
2 10
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF En¬
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o'clock; and a Library ife in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription 3s. per
quarter in advance. Thos, Blyxon, Secretary, &c.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuani to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Sharks of £1 Each.
Head Offices:
BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET,
MANCHESTER.
Chief London Offices:
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Regis¬
trar, Court of Probate, Doctors’Commons, London;
and Chancellor of the Diocese of Manchester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General,
India Office, Westminster, London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Qppenheim & Sons), Director
of the Union Bank of London, Austin Friars, Old
Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Wegoelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.)
Director of the Bank of England, 57£, Old Broad-
, street, London, E.C.
Auditor:
Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and
Southlands, Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British
Imperial ” (originally devised- by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c.,
&c., of Somerset House, and adopted with some modifi¬
cations by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect in
Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-
Insurance Policy, is issued upon English Government
Securities, held in Trust, away from the control of the
Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims,
the amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium)
being shown by the National English Life Table, com¬
piled by the Registrar-General for the Government to be
more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing
to continue the payment of his premiums, only sufficient
thereof is retained by the Corporation to profitably cover
the risk incurred upon the life during the time it was
covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned
to the Insurant. The amount returned varies according
to the Table under which the Insurance is effected,
between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is
endorsed on every Policy, and is made payable at three
days’sight. It can also be used to its full amount, by
payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum
withdrawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN,
General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES,
Secretary.
British national insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Offices.
BROWN-STREET AND MARSDEN-STREET,
MANCHESTER.
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may
be effected with this Corporation upon every description
of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has
been made upon the Corporation during the year pre¬
ceding, a Bonus of ten Per cent, will be returned on
the payment of Renewed premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing
Employers against loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of
persons holding confidential and other places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the
Policies of this Corporation as security for the Poor Law
Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of
influence and standing to act for the Corporation in
unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and
BRITISH NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARAN¬
TEE) INSURANCE CORPORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Cor¬
porations can be made to C. W- Pearce, at the Chief
London Offices, 20, King William Street, E.C., from
whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other infor¬
mation, can be obtained.
PSYCHIC FORCE.—;The proofs of the
existence of a Psychic Force are fully set forth in
the New Edition of “ SPIRITUALISM ANSWERED
BY SCIENCE,” by EDWARD W. COX, S.L., F.R.G.S.
Price Half-a-Crown. This New Edition has been re¬
written, and doubled in size.
Longman & Co., Patemoster-row.
■piEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretory.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Price 2s. 6d.
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things Spiritual with
things Material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good,”
—Christian Spiritualist.
*** A List of Spiritual and Mesmeric works on applica¬
tion.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
jgPP S’S COCOA.
The Civil Service Gazette remarks—“By a thorough
knowledge of the natural laws which govern the opera¬
tions of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful applica¬
tion of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr.
Epps has provided our breakfast-tables with a delicately-
flavoured beverage which may save us many heavy
doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverages.
Beveridge & eraser, Printers of
The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
A ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERVER OF
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in groat variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
Footfalls . on the boundary
OF ANOTHER WORLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition. Post 8vo. Pp. xx—392. Cloth
7s. 6d.
The debatable land between
THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT.—By Robert
Dale Owen, Author of “ Footfalls on the Boundary of
another World.” 1 vol. crown 8vo. cloth. Price 9s.
Now Ready, Crown 8vo., pp. viii. 120, cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Hints for the evidences of
SPIRITUALISM.” By M. P.
London: Triibner and Co., 8 and 60, Paternoster-row.
• Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
Heaven opened. —part ii. being
further descriptions of, and advanced teachings
from, the Spirit Land. Given through the mediumship
of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the Scripture
proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11,
Ave-Maria lane, E.O., or F. J. T., 21, East Ascent,
St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Also Part L, price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
Now Ready 4th Edition. 8vo. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s. 6d
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Revelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow.”—
Athenseum.
“It contains more truth,poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
“ The ‘ Alpha ’ is the book of an age.”—Banner of Light
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTURES,” cloth
8vo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d.'
J. BURNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.O.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Reports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, pro and contra,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de Pomar;
Professor Huxley,, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Robertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr, Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson, Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, Ldon Favre, Camilla
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home, William
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varley, A. R. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &a, &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
T71 MANUEL SWEDENBORG: HIS
Hi LIFE AND WRITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. H.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—
Three shillings and sixpence for the first fifty
words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
ten words in addition. When four or more insertions
of the same advertisement are ordered, half-a-erown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and four-
pence for every ten words in addition, each insertion.
Ten initial letters or figures count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertise¬
ments, because it circulates largely among those adver¬
tisers desire to reach, and an advertisement is not lost to
view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not
usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
, Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters
consisting of personal opinions, for publication, are
requested not to make them more than a 'third of a
column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received
for papers unaccompanied by a remittance. The next
twelve copies of The Spiritualist will be posted to any
address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
(ftontents.
Professor Mapes’s Experiences in Spiritualism ... 57
Canon Calloway on Psychological Phenomena ... 57
The Psychological Classification of Criminals  59
The Moabite Stone ■...       59
Mrs. Holmes’s Mediumship       ... 60
Spiritualism in Dalston    61
Rising in the Air; ...; ... •.    61
Poetry :—The Spirit’s Message  61
Correspondence :—Spirituality; Spiritualism and
Evolution; The Efficacy of Prayer; The Need of a
Spiritual Institution; The Treatment Of Crimi¬
nals; Deception and Mediumship; Mind and Body 61
The “ Spiritualist” Newspaper   ...."   63
The British Association    ... ... 63
Telegraphic Soifie  >   ...   ... 63
Answers to Correspondents   ...   63
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.
