AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 162.—(Vol. VIL—No. 14.) LONDON: OCTOBER 1, 1875.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontents.
Forbidden Subjects      
Spirit People '   
The Late Captain Hudson 
Dr. Butlerof’s Spiritualistic Experiments at St. Petersburg:—A Test
' Seance with M. Brcdif   
Spiritualism in East London:—A Medial Indian Chief—Local Spirit¬
ualistic Meetings—A Test /Seance—Heading Mediumship 
The Testimonial to Mrs. Tappan       
Spiritualistic Meetings during the Coming Winter 
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris:—Another Confession by M.
Buguet ...       
Arrival in England of M. Aksakof and Professor Butlerof  
CorrespondenceSpiritualism in Australia—An Extract fr^m the
Mexican Spiritual Newspaper—Mrs. Tappan’s Farewell Meeting
—Physical Manifestations in Newcastle—Mr. D. D. Home on Re¬
incarnation—The Cultivation of Healing Mediumship—Reports of
Seances—Spiritual Manifestations in Cardiff—Allan Kardec and
Progress in the Spirit World—Conjurors’ Rope-tying Tricks—An
Offer to Clairvoyants by Dr. Wylde—The Materialisation of Spirits
in Cardiff—The Sufferings of the Dying  
The Examiner on Kardec’s Speculations 
Provincial News :—Birmingham—Newcastle-on-Tyne, Newcastle Spirit¬
ual Society—South Shields, A New Medium ' 
Paragraphs:—Tennyson on Spiritual Progress, 162; The Coming of
Age of Count Pomar, 162; Birth, 163; National Association
Soiree, 163; Brixton Psychological Society, 163; A Gift from The
Banner of Light, 163; Mr. Spurgeon on Spirit*. 163 ; A Seance with
Mr. Williams, 163; Return of Mr. J. J. Morse. 168; Buguet’s Me¬
diumship, 168; A Seance with Mrs. Kate FoxJencken, 168; Sun¬
day Services at the Cavendish Rooms 
160
161
162
163
163
161
167
166
168
East London spiritoal meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cant. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
I Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager,
w
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
/las a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 16th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
*T> EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
iVi fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist m&y obtain
it of Mme. Ye. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Gapucines, Paris.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s,
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE REA.DINO ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
iu addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A /Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALI STS.
OF
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
ivill be held in London, at 38, Great Russell-street, W. C., f rom the drd
to ike 5th of November.
Genebal Programme.
Wednesday, November 3.—Opening Soiree—at the Cavendish Rooms, for
the benefit of Mr. Morse. Hours from 6.30 to 10.30.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Second
Session, 7.30.
Friday, November 5.—Third and Fovtrth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects for Papers.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism as a Religious
Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
- 5. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—its objects and
interests.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to be sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to be had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
•WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, October 6th, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-strcet,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Woburn-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting frienas and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected, with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re-
buested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackicell.
. Price 7s. 6d. Postage Old.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 1, 1875
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everit.t, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-huL Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.It.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood. Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Joncken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E C.
Ramsay, Mrs.,4G, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P„ Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairos-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Ed ward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, netfh Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 1G3, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Yue terraco, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-rottd Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T.. 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
FRz-Gerald, Desmond G„ M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Oobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grovo, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey. Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Gapt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W,
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex,
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W,
Mawson, Wm. Bryham,!, King-square, Gos well-road, E.U.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19,Nottingham-plaCe, York-gate, Regent’s-pk. N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A, LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E. C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Leo, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shad well, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H.. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, .Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Olapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H,, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W..
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.G.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Ca:n?p
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhiaet.
near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha, It Bahdje Capoussou, Co:»-
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschacb, Styria, via Gratz.,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.'
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier'
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Novaky Prospect 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York
U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. d. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anleres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq,, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUnion, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich. Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Griinhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57. Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Oowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
MU. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private "Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
Tk/TRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
-i-VJL MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REOAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in 'his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, .59, Finborough-road, Kedcliife-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter. '•
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational trance
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States, on a lecturing tour.
He will return to England by the 20th October next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course.
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
IkTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDLER, Professor
JJv of Curative IMesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
dailyi from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication cf their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
Mrs. olive, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays, at
7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Previous
T appointments should be made for private seances.
VOJ-UJVIE ^EYEjST. J^UJVIBER fOUF(TEE|^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1st, 1876.
CJj* Spmtalist
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSHalf-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London: and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. City Pub¬
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
** " The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., which may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post-
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi¬
ritualists of every class* whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held In Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kisliugbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
^PHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
JL Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
• The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.R.8.,Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause!; Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de' Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. Gf. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.:
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore • Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Hollywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully.M.D.; theRev.C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C. Hail.F.S.A.: Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr.'D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Marthexe; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
FORBIDDEN SUBJECTS.
Complaints from correspondents about any of the
contents of this journal are of extremely rare occur¬
rence, but now and then an isolated note from one or
other of its readers contains the remark that the sub¬
ject of such and such an article is not connected with
Spiritualism; such criticisms invariably are to the
effect that the range taken in these pages is too broad,
and never that it is too narrow.
A little while ago it was said that the subject of the
origin of the human spirit and of the creation and de¬
velopment of this earth, were not matters in any way
connected with Spiritualism. In the belief that the
first part of this objection stands ^self-refuted, it may
be remarked about the remainder that all the great
sacred books connected with the chief religions of the
earth contain accounts of the origin of man and of the
creation of the world, as if such subjects were in¬
separably connected with religion. Further, the ac¬
counts thus handed down in ancient traditions are all
irreconcilable with the established truths of modern
science, and could never have obtained any hold upon
the minds of men had they been first mooted in more
intellectual times. Therefore it may he considered to he
good for our movement to show that at least one reli¬
gious body, such as we Spiritualists claim to he, not only
admits the immortality of man, and undertakes to prove
it in a rational manner, but at the same time, instead
of opposing or looking coldly upon science—for science
is hut exact knowledge as distinguished from unreliable
opinion—is able and willing to consider, with just as
much freedom as any of the philosophers of the day,
any problems connected with the realms of nature.
In short, Spiritualists are in no way afraid of free dis¬
cussion or of truth.
The occasional attention given in these pages to the
subject of woman’s rights has also been cited as having
nothing to do with Spiritualism. If the human spirit
passes through its first stages of development in this
material world, and if that development may be ac¬
celerated or retarded by surrounding conditions, surely
anything which affects the welfare of women, who are
engaged in training such large numbers of young
embodied spirits, at the outset and most susceptible
portion of their career, must be intimately connected
with Spiritualism. If the young plant is not well
cared for, how can it grow roses in perfection? If the
laws or the customs of society impose disabilities upon
a large section of the human race, not only will suffer¬
ing be thereby caused in this world, but the conse¬
quences will be felt in the world hereafter. Some
savages, after going through the marriage ceremony,
take their wives home and give them a good beating
about their heads with clubs, thereby letting them
know that they possess lords and masters indeed.
Although this state of things does not prevail at
present in England, such trifling operations as
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 1, 1875
kicking a woman about the head with a pair of hob¬
nailed boots are of tolerably frequent occurrence, and
in the eye of the law are of a somewhat less serious
nature than the stealing a raw turnip by a starving
charity boy. Until the Married Women’s Property Act
was passed, the laws on this subject amounted to
nothing more nor less than sheer endorsement of dis¬
honesty, and even at the present time it is only among
the more honourable sections of society that the pro¬
perty of married women is secured to the rightful
owners. Uneducated and narrow-minded parents exer¬
cise a powerful influence in crushing down the free-
thought and healthy aspirations of their children, and
when children have been forcibly trained for sixteen
or seventeen years in narrow grooves of thought, they
can scarcely ever recover mental freedom or average
intelligence afterwards, and are thus even more injured
by the ignorance of their parents than certain savages
injure their offspring by flattening their infant heads
between boards. The latter operation produces merely
a physical deformity, but the former is one which, for
a time at least, will endure also in the spirit-world.
Vital questions such as those relating to the “ distribu¬
tion of wealth ”—or in other words, “ the means of
subsistence ”—questions which occupied most of the
attention during life of Mr. John Stuart Mill, are also
intimately connected with Spiritualism, for if those
laws which by means of legal delays, impediments, and
expenses, prevent land from being bought and sold like
other property, bring the great bulk of the means of
subsistence away from those who labour into the pos¬
session of those who labour not, how can many spirits be
properly developed on the material plane ? If the roots
of a large number of plants be starved, how can
beautiful flowers be the result ? A healthy Spiritualism
can exist only in harmony with a healthy materialism,
the higher plane of existence resting symmetrically and
harmoniously on the lower. If a child be deprived of
proper food, and air, and other necessaries, so that it
lives continually in an atmosphere of pain, how can
the mind, worrieji by all these sufferings, be ready to
receive those ideas which good teachers of heaven or
earth would impress upon it? During the pain of the
physical body the mind is not in the best condition to
receive or carry out new ideas. Theologians may speak
of the human body as “ vile,” because they comprehend
but little of its marvellous mechanism, and would be all
the better for six months’ education under intelligent
instructors at Guy’s Hospital; some fanatical devotees
more ignorantly still lacerate their bodies, thinking
they are doing servifie to God by treating in that manner
the wondrous mechanism He has placed in their charge.
The fundamental ideas of the inherent wickedness of
matter, are probably dark legacies handed down to the
present generation by ignorant forefathers ; very likely
matter and spirit are inseparable in all stages of ex¬
istence, and probably man has no more right to con¬
demn one at the expense of the other, than he would
have did he condemn and abuse his right arm at the
expense of his left.
If those benefactors of the race who by self-sacrifice
are advancing the happiness of mankind, by promoting
education, scientific research, and the freedom of
women, find they get a little kindly recognition among
Spiritualists all the time that they are condemned by
the more orthodox, such a line of action tends to
benefit our movement and to bring into it supporters
worth having.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
From last Saturday's “Figaro.”
Most persons possessed of any intellectual grip are familiar
with the phraseology of Spiritualism, and have some notion of
the kind of phenomena vouched for by spirit cultivators.
Seances, light and dark, are as common almost as prayer-meet¬
ings, and of so-called mediumistic manifestations there is no
end. Spirit lights, spirit faces, and spirit hands are constantly
seen, on paper at all events ; hut, curiously enough, spirit feet
seem conspicuous by their absence, and there is no evidence to
prove that spirits are in some respects better off than cherubs,
or that they can adopt the position which mortals ordinarily
assume when they -happen to be tired of standing.
It is not our intention, in the present article, either to plead
for or to fulminate against the claims of Spiritualism ; wo
merely wish to place before our readers some of the very re¬
markable statements made by Mr. W. H. Harrison,* in a little
volume entitled Spirit People, and purporting to give a scien¬
tifically accurate description of manifestations recently pro¬
duced by spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the author
and other observers in London.
At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any in¬
tention of proselyting, or forcing his opinions down non-
spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and de¬
duction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumfound-
ing nature.
Most of the manifestations recorded in Spirit People took
place either at the house of Mrs. Mary Marshall, the younger,
or at Fleetwood House, Beckenham, Kent, the residence of Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, the Atlantic cable electrician. The dramatis
personae varied somewhat, but included Mesdames Marshall,
Varley, C. Anderson, Houghton, and other mediumistic ladies ;
Messrs. Home, Yarley, Marshall, Tapp, Herne, and Cook; the
spirits of John King and Katie King, and Roger Bacon, and a
particularly objectionable spirit who, on one occasion, after
amusing himself at his cultivators’ expense, was unkind enough
to tell them that they were fools and asses for their pains.
To the well-ordered mind it is distressing to find that spirits
are capable of making execrable puns ar.d singing bad rhymes
to worse tunes; while the statement' that John King once re¬
commended an ailing mortal to take a small bottle of Guin¬
ness’s stout every day at dinner, cannot but create distrust in the
total-abstainer’s breast, however valuable it may be as a trade
advertisement. But the uncomfortable feeling excited in each of
these cases will be changed into pity when the full force of John
King’s explanation is realised. “Look here, Hamson! I have
been put to do this work of convincing mortals for a certain
number of years to work out my own salvation, and, as I have
to do it, I think it as well to make myself jolly over it.”
Spirits appear to exhibit journalistic preferences which are
reasonable enough, and very creditable to spiritualistic dis¬
crimination. Thus a spirit of Mr. Harrison’s acquaintance
deliberately refused to give the name of the sister-in-law of
the editor of the Engineer, a newspaper much too inflexibly
mechanical for spirit patronage ; while another spirit kept on
the best of terms with Mr. Harrison while that gentleman was
engaged on the literary staff of the congenial Daily Telegraph.
It is, indeed, an open question whether the supernatural gush,
Observable in some journals, is not due to the guiding influence
of ardent spirits—we mean, of course, spirits who throw their
whole enei’gy into the work they undertake.
Mr. Harrison’s disclosures anent spirit lights are very dis¬
appointing. He describes some, which he saw, as being eighteen
inches long, as large as a shilling at one end, and tapering off
to a fine tail at the other. He further tells us that some were
straight and some were curved, and that all of them were in
rapid motion. But he gives us no information as to their colour,
their brilliancy, or their adaptability for purposes of household
illumination and street lighting. He makes some amends, how¬
ever, by telling ns that John King has beautifully scented
breath, due possibly to the absence of teeth, and of the stomachic
and pulmonary arrangements whose decay often makes no.n-
spiritualised breath unheavenly.
In the course of his mediumistic experiences Mr. Harrison
fell in with a Mr. Horne, whom he describes as a promising
medium of nineteen or twenty years of age, who says that he
sees spirits dressed in flowing robes, and engaged for the most
part in the not very hard labour of showering down flowers
* The Spiritualistic Library. No. 1. Spirit People: a scientifically accu¬
rate description of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simul¬
taneously witnessed by the author and other observers in London. By
William H. Harrison. London: W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper.
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street. 1875.
Oct. 1, 1875,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
159
upon favoured mediums. Mr. Herne’s chief advantage, how¬
ever, in going through life lies in his alleged power of seeing
“ coloured auras ” round all the people he meets, and is thus
able to discriminate into good, had, and indifferent. Green he
does not like, for it implies something bad in the person; but
ladies of strong mental enterprise will be delighted to hear that
blue is symbolical of wisdom ; while it is only right that erotic
beings should be told that red means love.
By far the most exacting statement made by Mr. Harrison has
to do with Mr. Home, who is described as having, when in the
trance state, walked up to one of the fireplaces in Fleetwood
House, plunged his bare hand into the burning coals, and, after
feeling about for some time, brought out a lump about the size
of a cricket ball, and returned to his seat at the table holding
the coal in the iniddle of his bare hand, palm uppermost, over
the centre of the table, and within a few^ inches of Mr. Harri¬
son’s eyes. The coal, it is stated, was so hot down to the level
where it touched Mi\ Home’s hand, that the light reflected from
the surface of the skin made the skin itself appear to be in¬
candescent in places. In a few minutes the coal grew black,
and, upon Mr. Home’s remarking, “ You may touch it if you
like,” a gentleman present put his hand on it, but drew back
with the exclamation, “ By Jove, it is hot! ” All this is passing
strange, and demands more faith than many persons will be
inclined to give it, in spite of Mr. Home’s explanation that all
the time the coal was in his hand the spirits were sending a
stream of some force down his hand and arm to counteract the
influence of the heat, and that if the flow of this stream had
stopped for an instant, the coal would have been in a position
to do its duty.
Raps form the Spiritualist’s alphabet, and it is therefore
interesting, though perhaps a little puzzling, to be assured by
John King that spirits have two ways of producing raps, and
that they manufacture them ordinarily by gathering some of
the aura surrounding the medium, moulding it in their hands
as if it were clay, and throwing it. down like a ball upon the
table, where it makes an explosive noise. The excellent
authority above-mentioned does not divulge the other method
of causing raps, but he is good enough to mention that when
tables are lifted it is generally by the agency of spirits outside
and above the house, and that when a table tilts more from one
side than another it shows that there is an excess of power on
that side—a statement which we are not disposed to question.
On one occasion Mr. Harrison tried to inveigle the spirits
into manifesting themselves by the light of an ingeniously con¬
structed lantern, which ho had prepared for their special benefit,
and which gave out blue religious rays “ incapable of producing
a tithe of the molecular disturbance” white light is guilty of.
This lamp was duly lit, and soon great shadows were seen
moving over the walls of the bluely illuminated room. This
was regarded as a favourable omen, and success seemed immi¬
nent, when Mr. Harrison, chancing to look round, saw an inquis¬
itive cat investigating his lantern with the most unreserved
devotion, and rapturously rubbing herself against its illumina¬
tive side. She misrepresented the spirits.
The other aspects of Spiritualism set forth in Spirit People
are, most of them, equally remarkable with those we have
touched upon, but for their exposition we must refer our
readers to the little volume itself.
THE LATE CAPTAIN HUDSON.
In our last issue we announced the death of this well-known
and respected inhabitant. At the request of a number of his
friends and admirers, we append the following respecting
him:—
Captain Hudson was born April 11, 1807, at Sunderland, in
the county of Durham. His father, who commenced life, as a
waterman on the river Wear, was successful in his early specu¬
lations, and soon became possessed of a competency. When
Henry, afterwards Captain Hudson, was only three years-old,
his father having become a partner with Messrs. Bonney and
Grimshaw, in their collieries, near Chesterfield, removed to that
place. The colliery speculations turned out most unfortunate—
one pit took fire; in another there was an explosion of fire¬
damp, which killed 32 persons. In three months Mr. Hudson
lost £15,000. The family again retired to Sunderland, where
its head set up in business as a ship-chandler. At eleven years
of age, Henry Hudson was sent to sea in one of his father’s
ships, which at that time was commanded by Henry’s eldest
brother. Having spent two years at sea, he returned to his
parents, who had now gone to-reside at Blyth. Here the Cap¬
tain remained twelve months, going to school and indulging in
pranks as a sailor boy of a brave and daring spirit might be
supposed to do ; playing on a justic cleric who had taken up the
work of education rather from compulsion than choice. This
probation ended, we find young Hudson for the next two years
at Grosser Colliery, having the management and control of
a steam engine. At the expiration of this term he was in¬
dentured to a ship-builder, in whose establishment he served an
apprenticeship of four years. As soon as his indentures were
served he went again to sea, and in a short time he became
master of one of his father’s vessels. Subsequently he com¬
manded several large ships in the North American trade. He
was the first master mariner who sailed his ship on total absti¬
nence principles. In the spring of 1837 he left Hartlepool in
the Hartlepool, having on board a whole crew of pledged ab¬
stainers. On his arrival at Montreal, the place of his destina¬
tion, the friends of temperance in that city presented him with
a silver medal in commemoration of this event.
The Captain has left behind him a very voluminous narrative
of his life during the time he was at sea. This narrative, said
the Rev. Dr. Moore (when preaching the Captain’s funeral
sermon on Sunday evening last) forcibly impressed him with
three things : 1. The readiness with which the Captain availed
himself of every opportunity for usefulness; 2. The effectual
way in which he seemed to stir up Christian people at the
various ports he visited; 3. The persistency with which he
advocated the cause of total abstinence. In 1839 Mr. Hudson
was appointed sailors’ missionary at Liverpool. The inade¬
quacy of his stipend to meet the demands of a large family was
the cause of his retirement at the end of three years from this
post, which he filled with credit to himself and advantage to
the society under whose auspices he laboured.
From 1845 to a comparatively short period before his death,
he espoused the vocation of public lecturer on Mesmerism,
Electricity, and Spiritualism. Although the rev. gentleman
who preached his funeral sermon passed over this part of Mr.
Hudson’s career with a silence which would lay him open to the
charge of being a rationalistic sadducee, who believed in
neither angel nor spirit; it nevertheless appears that the brave
Captain’s achievements in the domain of spirits are by no means
to be despised.—The Ferret (Swansea).
DR. BUTLEROF’S SPIRITUALISTIC EXPERIMENTS AT
ST. PETERSBURG.
A TEST SEANCE WITH M. BREDIF.
Dr. A. Butlerof, who is now in England, has published a
long and circumstantial account in Psychic Studies of his
latest experiences in the examination of mediumship. We
quote some portions of his article, as tending to show the
thorough manner in which the researches in St. Petersburg have
been conducted. Dr. Butlerof gives the following reasons for
their publication:—
Soon after my friend Professor Nicholas Wagner had published
his treatise “ On Psycho-dynamic Phenomena ” in Psychic
Studies (March, 1875), another much more detailed one appeared
in one of the most influential and widely circulated Russian
journals. He there records the observations which he) has been
enabled to make within the last few months, and which were
not described in the paper in Psychic Studies. As I was present
at all the observations made by Dr. Wagner, I will supply the
missing link, by giving a record of our latest experiences. . . .
Professor Wagner mentions the sittings with the Parisian
medium, Camille Bredif, which took place at the table ; he also
speaks of a gentleman who had formerly made experiments of
another kind with Br4dif, and having informed us of these, we
resolved to attempt some of the same kind. . . .
Some of these seances, of which we had a considerable
number, were very remarkable; I will describe one of them.
The sitting took place at the house of M. Alexander Aksakof ;
the company consisted, besides myself and the medium, of M. A.
Aksakof, Madame Sophie Aksakof, Professor N. Wagner, Dr. D.
and Friiulein Pribytkof. We began by sitting round the table,
when only the ordinary phenomena took place. After these
preliminaries we proceeded to the second and more interesting
part of the experiment. One -of the doors was closed and
fastened with the key, %nd as the wall is of stone, and of great
thickness, a sort of cabinet was formed by the recess, which
was provided with a double curtain of a dark grey material.
The two halves of the curtain were arranged with an aperture
between; in the space between the curtain and the door stood
a small table, near which there was just room for the medium’s
chair. The medium was securely bound. I undertook to per¬
form this operation myself in the sight of all present. I used
160
THE SPIRITUALIST. Oct. 1, 1875.
for the purpose a sti'ip of white linen about half an inch
wide. This was wound firmly round each wrist. Especial pains
were taken to leave no possibility of slipping the hands out of
the bonds, still less of putting them in again. Four or five
knots were made to each bandage, and the ends were then cut
off. The linen strip was next passed under the bandage on
each wrist, the two hands were drawn together within an inch
of each other, and after the strip was firmly knotted, one end
of it was passed between the medium’s knees under his chair to
the brass castor of the right back leg of the chair. By slipping
the band through the staple of the castor, it remained so
securely and tightly fixed that there was very little play for
the medium’s hands. From the castor the band went back to
the right elbow of the medium, and after it had been wound
round the elbow-joint, was passed across his breast to the left
arm, again wound round the arm and knotted, and then drawn
through the castor of the left back leg of the chair and firmly
■tied—thence to the feet of the medium, where it was fastened
round the ancles, and, lastly, the band was carried back to the
hands and tied again in several knots. Thus securely bound,
the medium was conveyed in his chair to his place behind the
curtain. On the little table were a hand-bell, a few sheets of
clean writing paper, and a pencil. Before the curtain, and close
to it, a small square table was placed, around which the com¬
pany was seated in a half-circle. . . . The light stood in a
corner of the room on a table, and was shaded by a piece of
paper, so that the room was dimly lighted, but sufficiently to
show all objects plainly.”
The usual phenomena followed. Raps, as of knuckles, on the
door at the back of the cabinet, a small white hand at the open¬
ing, the hand-bell rung in time with the musical box which had
been set going, movement of the paper, sound of writing ; then
the paper was given out through the opening, more was asked
for hy means of raps with the pencil; when the papers were
examined the name Jeke was found written ; on some only a
part of the name. This word often occurs at Bredif’s seances.
The hand touched or grasped the hands thrust inside the cur¬
tain. Once it seized Dr. Wagner’s hand, and attempted to
withdraw a ring from his finger. During this time the writer
satisfied himself that it was not Bredif’s hand by feeling the
hands of the medium through the cloth of the curtain. Dr.
Wagner also saw the medium’s hands through a little opening
in the curtain, tightly bound as at first. Afterwards the cur¬
tain was raised from within, and the medium and the white
bandages were distinctly seen. The hands, however, were not
visible on this occasion. When the signal was given to break
up the circle, a light was taken into the cabinet, and the medium
was found tied as at the beginning. At other seances various
modes of tying were invented. The medium’s hands wore put
into muslin bags, which were sown together and to the medium’s
coat-sleeve. The linen band was wound three times round the
root of the little finger of each hand, then round the wrists
and throat, then knotted and passed in and out of the legs
of the chair as before, being marked, for additional security,
at various points with a lead pencil. On one occasion the bell
and paper and pencil were placed on a stool behind the medium’s
back. All went on as before. A second bell was presented by
the sitters outside, was grasped by the hand on the other side
of the curtain, and rung in the sight of all present. The posi¬
tion of the hand was that of a foot and half above the medium’s
head, and behind his back. The electrical tests used by Mr.
Crookes with Mrs. Fay was also applied with equal success. On
this occasion the medium was searched, and every article of his
clothing examined, for the satisfaction of a sceptic, who was
forced to admit that the manifestations did take place.
Dr. Butlerof sums up in these words: “ This is an un¬
varnished account of that which we have witnessed. The
phenomena were of that fugitive character, which often—though
by no means always—accompanies medial operations. But be
the character of these appearances what it may, their reality is
beyond all doubt. The recognition of their reality will very soon be
the inevitable duty of every honourable observer, and finally, of
all humanity. This recognition will destroy many of the prqsent
prevailing views; life and science will have to come to terms
with it. Our old notions about the essential nature of matter
dissolve in the light of the actuality of these facts, and new
ideas present themselves of the endless -variety of degrees and
forms of existence.”
Mr. Algernon Joy, honorary secretary to the National
Association of Spiritualists, recently spent a few days in Boston,
U.S., and visited Messrs. Colby and Rich, of The Banner of
Light,
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.
Last Sunday night Mr. Cogman’s quarterly tea-meeting was
held at 15, St. Petor’s-road, Mile-end, in support of the Sunday
services which he carries on at that place. There was a largo
attendance; indeed, more were present than the small room
could comfortably accommodate. After tea, Mr. Burns pre¬
sided, and Mr. Robson officiated at the harmonium.
The hymn “ Catch the Sunshine,” which is a favourite one at
Mr. Cogman’s meetings, was sung, after which Miss Eager, in
the trance state, uttered an inspirational prayer.
Miss Baker then sang an appropriate hymn, Mr. Robson
playing an accompaniment upon the harmonium.
Miss Keeves next gave an address in the trance state, the
substance of which was that Spiritualists should not trifle with
Spiritualism, or look upon it as a means of amusement, for they
were dealing witty the all-important subject of the immortality
of the soul; and while thus gaining a knowledge of the future,
they were not wasting their time, hut cultivating their talents
of to-day and learning to lead a glorious life.
A MEDIAL INDIAN CHIEF.
Mr. Jennison said that he thought that the theological notions
of death were perfectly horrible; the experience he had gained
of late years in Spiritualism, induced him to believe that there
was no such thing as death either for matter or spirit—nothing
but transformation and life eternal. He added that once, when
he was travelling in America, he heard an old Indian chief
tum-tumming every night in his tent, and at last it occurred to
him to try to find out the meaning of this noise; he found the
old man with a tambourine, a bit of bone, and a string, lying on
his hack in the tent, singing and tum-tumming away. He
asked him what he was doing. “ Talking to the Great
Spirit,” was the reply. “ Do you see him ?” , “ Yes, I see him,
and I see all my friends.” At the time the old chief told him
(Mr. Jennison) this, he knew nothing about Spiritualism, and at
the present time he felt ashamed to think that that old Indian
should have had more sensible ideas of a future state than himself.
Even Australian- savages believe in an immediate resurrection,
their idea of death being, to use their own words, “ Tumble down
black fellow, tumble up white fellow.” Once he thought the
change called death to be a dreadful gap in human experience,
but since then he had grown wiser ; he now looked forward to
that great change with an amount of pleasure which he could
not have conceived to have been possible a few years ago.
Mrs. Moss, a trance medium residing at Notting-hill, then
uttered a few words in the trance state, which professed to como
from a materialist who in earth life had taught that there was no
future and no God, and at the present time was suffering bitter
pangs of remorse for having circulated such doctrines.
Mr. and Miss Allen then sang the anthem, “How beautiful upon
the mountains,” accompanied by Mr. Robson upon the harmonium,
after which Mr. Levy Giles uttered a few words in the trance
state.
LOCAL SPIRITUALISTIC MEETINGS.
Mr. Cogman said that he wished to return thanks to those
who had shown their sympathy towards him and his work by
attending that evening in such large numbers, for he thought
that co-operation among Spiritualists was much to be desired.
He had had a great deal of experience in the development of
mediumship, and thought that it was a great duty on the part
of mediums to separate good teachings from bad ones, and not
to encourage the latter. Spirit teachings were like a draught of
fishes in a net, and it was the duty of the recipients to separate
the good from the bad. This was a serious matter, for there
were many things in mediumship calculated to embarrass in¬
quirers and to cause misapprehension. He had not been so well
supported during the past quarter as during the previous one in
the matter of the collections. During the previous quarter
they amounted to £3 15s., while those of the present
quarter amounted only to £3 8s. He had had contribu¬
tions from outsiders, which had been advertised, and which he
need not allude to further. The attendance on Sundays was
growing larger, and a larger place of meeting was desirable, if it
could be obtained; he thought that if fresh speakers came to
that place sometimes, and he went somewhere else, everybody
would be pleased with the change. He did not suggest this
because he wished to shift the sphere of his labours, but because
he thought variety would be more pleasant to the listeners.
Mr. Blunderfield said that he had commenced free meetings in
connection with Spiritualism in a small room at Notting-hill
about three years ago, and had carried them on ever since.
Mr. Charles White said that a few friends at Marylebone were
carrying on public lectures there, and he was satisfied with the
success. They had met with opposition, but that increased the
Oct. 1, 1875.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
161
attendance at the meetings, which were not carried on under the
auspices of the Marylebone Association of Spiritualists. He
thought that it was not desirable to try to spread Spiritualism
much at the present time, but rather to strengthen it within,
and to surround mediums with good conditions.
Mr. Bundle said that organisations had commenced in
South London, where an association had been formed a few
days ago, and twenty-three members had entered their names.
The Chairman then asked Mr. Sadler, a physical medium
from Cardiff, to say a few words.
MisS Sadler said that her brother would probably address the
meeting in a few minutes in the trance state.
A TEST SEANCE.
Mr. Crouchor said that he had beSn working at Notting-hill
in connection with the cause of Spiritualism. Once he said to
a Stamford-hill medical gentleman with whom he was well
acquainted, “ As you go into a great many private families, do
you ever see or hear anything of Spiritualism?” The doctor
replied, “ Look here, Croucher! In some families I have
heard about it, but in those families there has always been
one person that was cracked.” (Laughter.) It was evident
from this that the doctor did not understand the subject.
He had a remarkable test last Wednesday; he was going
to the Alexandra Palace, and went into an eating-house
near King’s-cross to got some dinner; some beans
were presented to him; he did not like the look of
them, so sent them away, saying that he could not eat them,
and soon afterwards he forgot all about the incident, as it
was not a thing likely to remain in his memory. He never
mentioned this circumstance to anybody, but the next night a
spirit entranced Mrs. Moss, and said, “ Where are the beans ?”
He replied, “ What do you mean ?” The spirit said, “ You had
to pay for them if you did not eat them. I told you I would
guard you, and prevent you from doing yourself harm; I im¬
pressed you not to eat them.” He thought this was a fair proof
of the presence of an intelligence not that of the medium. He
hoped that everything like class feeling would be kept out of
Spiritualism, and that there would be no bending to people who
thought they were superior to others not so rich as themselves.
Let all do the same work.
Mr. Robson was controlled, and in the trance state said that
Spiritualism ought to spread more in Wales than it does at pre¬
sent. There was a fine field there for its diffusion.
The Chairman asked Mr. Emms to speak, and mentioned that
%a subscription had recently been got up to aid him in his
distress.
Mr. Emms said that it was a great trial to him to have to ask
anybody to help him, as had recently been- the case, and as the
subject was painful to him he would say no more on that head.
He was sorry to hear Mr. Cogman’s statement how very badly
he had been financially supported during the past quarter. He
therefore should give more assistance to him himself than he
had ever done previously.
Mr. Charles White said that from his experience in Marylo-
bone, he would advise Spiritualists not to have any respectable
people in their societies. Rich and respectable people were
mere hangers-on, and Spiritualism flourished better without
them.
HEALING MEDIUM8HIP.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO MRS. TAPPAN.
We have been favoured with the following particu¬
lars in relation to the testimonial presented to Mrs.
Tappan last week :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—When I wrote on the spur of the moment, to announce
that my suggestion to present Mrs. Tappan with a testimonial
had met with a warm response from Mr. Martheze, Mr. Lament,
and others, I gave the idea that a moderate subscription, to
meet the emergency of the moment, was all that would be
required, and it is known that since then a copy of the address
was presented and the gifts were made to Mrs. Tappan the day
before she left for America; all this has given the natural im¬
pression to those who were not able to make a contribution in
time that they are now too late to do so.
I therefore trouble you to make the announcement that as
the illuminated address could not be got ready to present, it will
be on exhibition in London for the next fourteen days from this
date. The subscription list will remain open during that time,
and the committee hope that by the liberality of the Spirit¬
ualists of the United Kingdom they may be able to accompany
the address itself with a substantial proof of their appreciation
of the great services Mrs. Tappan has rendered to the cause of
Spiritualism during her sojourn in this country.
I append at foot the names and amounts subscribed up to
Monday last. # Benjamin Coleman.
1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood, Sept. 29th, 1875.
£ s. d.
Mr. Alex. Calder 10 0 0
The Countess of Caithness 5 5 0
Mr. J. N. T Martheze  5 0 0
„ Charles Blackburn   5 0 0
„ John Lament   2 0 0
„ James Wason   110
., Henry and Ellen Cullen 0 10 0
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Ward 1 1 0
£ s. d.
Mrs. T. S. Houghton  10 0
M.A. (Oxon)   0 10 0
Mr. Charles Parsons  0 5 0
Mr. Jos.and Mrs. Ivimey 0 5 0
Mrs. M. E. Nicholson   0 5 0
Mr. John Weightman  0 5 0
Anonymous   0 5 0
The following is one of the letters received by Mr.
Coleman on the subject, but the writer does not wish
his name to be published:—
Sept. 23.
My dear Sir,—I sea with great pleasure that you have set
on foot a project for presenting to Mrs. Tappan some acknow¬
ledgment of the work of which she has been the instrument
among us. I mean no disparagement to the labours of others
when I express my opinion that that work is unique and pre¬
eminently deserving of our recognition. I regret very much
that it should be interrupted, even for a time.' Still more do I
deplore the cause which carries Mrs. Tappan from us. Since it
must be so, I trust that she may return when more genial
weather permits with a reserve of strength for renewed work.
In asking you to add my name to your subscription list, I
take the opportunity of wishing you every success in your
attempt to give expression to what is the general feeling of
gratitude to Mrs. Tappau for her labours, and of hope for her
renewed health. If you communicate with her please convey
my good wishes to her. Absence from town prevented me from
bidding her good-bye personally. M. A. (Oxon.)
B. Coleman, Esq.
Mr. Ashman, a healing medium, said a few Avords about his
experience in healing the sick by the laying on of hands. His
experience in life had taught him that people who lived good
lives were protected to a very large extent from many of the
evils which afflicted others who did not so live.
Mr. Cogman, in reference to the subject of healing medium-
ship, said that some years before he became acquainted with
Spiritualism he had the power of healing persons suffering from
various diseases ; he did this by the laying on of hands; in¬
deed, he had cured cases of insanity by that means. By this
mode of treatment he had also been the means of restoring to
health a man who had had epilepsy for fifty years. In cases of
this kind he had never failed to effect a cure, but he thought
that the power was fast leaving him ; all he could do now was to
devote as much of his time as possible to teaching others to do
the same thing.
Miss Alford, a trance medium from Netting Hill, next gave a
short address under influence, and some closing remarks from
the chairman closed the proceedings.
Many letters and some reports of meetings are kept oxov
till next week, for Avant of room in this number of The
Spiritualist.
Mr. Coleman also received the following letter
Dear Mr. Coleman,—By the newspapers I see you are doing
something on vellum for Mrs. Tappan. Enclosed is £o for that
purpose. She has done great service in this country, and
become highly esteemed for hor great qualities and amiability
of manners. Charles Blackburn.
Parkflold, Didsbury, near Manchester.
21st September, 1875.
A copy of the address which was composed by Mr.
Coleman and presented to Mrs. Tappan is appended:—
,TO MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, OP BOSTON, U.S.A.
On the eve of your departure for your native home, we, the
undersigned members of a committee representing the feelings
of the majority of the Spiritualists of the United Kingdom,
desire to convey their high admiration of your gentle, amiable,
and highly intellectual qualities; qualities which we are assured
have endeared you to all who have had the privilege of meeting
you in close social relationship.
We beg to express to you and to that spirit-band who, under
God’s providence, have guided and directed your movements in
this country, and to that happy, faithful spirit Ouina Avho
inspires the beautiful poetry Avhich flows so gracefully from
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 1, 1875.
your lips—our best thanks for the services you have ren¬
dered to the cause we have so much at heart.
Recognising the fact that in the absence of all educational
advantages from childhood up to the present time, you have been
able for many years past to deliver an impromptu discourse in
an eloquent and strictly logical manner on any subject presented
to you by a promiscuous audience, we think that no greater
proof could be given to a sceptical world than that your thoughts
are inspired from a higher source—and so we believe them to be.
At a time when Spiritualism has been placed under a passing
cloud by some of its advocates, your mission and tbe gifts which
you command and wield so wisely stand out in bright relief, and
satisfy us that our creed—freed from all charlatanry and fanati¬
cism—teaches a grand and ennobling truth.
We beg, dear madam, on behalf of those we represent, to hand
with this illuminated address a few articles of usefulness which
we hope you will do us the honour to accept, as a slight testi¬
monial of our love and respect.
In bidding you farewell we sincerely trust that your health
may be thoroughly re-established, and that you may be impelled
ere long to revisit our shores, and in that hope we venture to
assure you that you leave behind you for a time a multitude of
friends who will gladly welcome your return to renew your most
useful labours amongst them.
• We sign our names on behalf of the general body of Spirit¬
ualists of the United Kingdom.
Charles Blackburn,
James Bowman,
James Burns, •
Anna 0. Burke,
‘ Alexander Oalder,
Henry Oollen,
Ellen Colie n,
Benjamin Coleman,
Emily Combes,
Sophia J. Creighton,
Andrew Cross,
Elizabeth Dickson,
Euphemia Dickson,
Mark Fooks,
Webster GUynes,
John Hare,
William Hitchman, M.D.,
John Mackay,
George B. Hinde,
The above address to Mrs. Tappan was beautifully
engrossed upon vellum, and is a fine work of art;
roses and lilies are represented in profusion—the lily
more especially, being a favourite flower both with
Mrs. Tappan and her spirit guides. Some spirits also
are introduced into the ornamental work, but the
artist has furnished them with conventional wings;
although the latter do not harmonise with the ideas of
Spiritualists, the pictorial effect is not deteriorated. At
the foot of the address is a monogram containing Mrs.
Tappan’s initials, surmounted by a crown, and at the
upper portion of the address is a group of cherubs.
There is more elaborate work in this specimen of
illumination than in those which Mr. Coleman caused
to be prepared on previous occasions for Judge Ed¬
monds and other respected Spiritualists. Mr. Coleman
has given much time and work during the past fortnight
to his kindly task, although his health is not strong,
and the getting up of testimonials involves a consider¬
able amount of letter-writing and personal responsibility.
It is pleasing to see that, such a veteran in the cause
of Spiritualism, has completed in so thorough a
manner this work of getting up a testimonial to one of
the most useful trance speakers who has worked for
the good of the cause in England for many years.
Tennyson on Spiritual Progress.—Some startled Pro¬
testant—not Mr. Whalley—has discovered that Mr. Tennyson
has displayed Romish proclivities by writing the following
stanza for the monument of Sir John Franklin :—
Not here; the WhiteJNorth has thy bones, and thou,
Heroic sailor soul,
Art passing on thine happier voyage now,
Towards no earthly pole.
This, says the startled Protestant, looks like a belief in purga¬
tory. He should have said Spiritualism.
SPIRITUALISTIC MEETINGS DURING THE COMING
WINTER.
Ax a meeting of the Public Lectures and Discus¬
sions Committee of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, held last Friday at 88, Great Russell-street,
London, it was unanimously resolved to recommend
to the Council, at its next meeting, the adoption of
the following programme :—
1. That meetings be held once a fortnight till Christmas, and
afterwards as found convenient, for the reading and discussion
of papers, commencing on Monday, Nov. 22, at eight o’clock.
2. That friends be requested to send in papers upon the facts
of Spiritualism, which papers, as a general rule, shall be of such
a length as not to occupy more than half-an-hour in the reading.
If any are longer an abstract shall accompany them. Authors
shall be requested to write their essays with copying ink and
on one side of the paper only, also to keep a copy for their
private use.
8. That the Council shall appoint a committee to manage tho
meetings, such committee to have power to appoint referees to
examine the papers, in order to report to the committee whether
they consider them suitable to be read at the meetings, either
in full or in part.
4. That members of the National Association only shall bo
admitted to the meetings.
5. That due notice shall be given to the members by circu¬
lars, by advertisements, and by notices in the reading-room, of
the papers which are to be read.
G. That a black board be provided for diagrams and illustra¬
tions.
7. That the MS. of all papers accepted by the Association
be the property of tho Association, and that the Association be
at liberty to publish at any time any paper either in whole or in
part, but that the copyright subject to these conditions remain
with the author.
The practical benefit to the cause of Spiritualism
of the adoption of some such programme as the above
is clear at a glance, because all investigators into
the nature of man will have the option of attend¬
ing the National Association meetings to learn about
the spirit and governing powers of the human being,
the Psychological Society to consider physiological and
mental problems, and the Anthropological Institute to
learn all about the body and bones. In fact, for
ignoring the spirit, the Anthropological Institute has
been sarcastically charged with degenerating into a
kind of burial board. All three institutions will be
doing most useful and most honest and conscientious
work, with all the ability which each can bring to bear,
and the ability in each case is above that of the
average level of English society.
One matter of detail requires to be introduced into
the above programme. As it stands, members only
will be admitted to the meetings, because of the
limited accommodation in the matter of space. But
sometimes a friend possessing very exceptional and
deep knowledge of the subject to be discussed may
desire to attend and to give information, hence the
secretary should have a limited discretionary power
of admitting non-members.
The Coming of Age of Count Pomar.—The Earl and
Countess of Caithness gave a ball last week at Barrogill Castle,
Caithness, to celebrate the coming of age of the Count de Medina
Pomkr, the only son of her ladyship. Count Pomkr on this
auspicious occasion assumed the old family title of Duke do
Medina. The young duke will not attain hR majority in Spain
(his native country) until the age of twenty-five. A salute from
the battery and a jf'eu dejoie in front of the Castle were fired by
the Caithness volunteers, who, with the tenantry, the servants,
and about fifty bluejackets from Her Majesty’s ship Jackal, had
a large gathering the next day, concluding the amusements with
a gay ball, which was kept up till early morning. Both the
sailors and the volunteers gave hearty cheers on retiring, to the
Lord Lieutenant of the County, and to the lady of the castle,
whose hospitality they had so much enjoyed.
Thomas P. Hinde,
Algernon Joy,
Emily Kislingbury,
John Lament,
J. N. T. Martheze,
Hay Nisbet,
E. Louisa S. Nos worthy,
Mary Pearson,
Sarah Pearson,
John Preist,
Thomas Slater,
Adelaide M. Slater,
George N. Strawbridge,
Ann Strawbridge,
William Tebb,
Mary E. Tebb,
George Thompson,
James "Wason.
Oct. 1, 1875,
THE SPIEITUALIST.
163
THE PERSECUTION GF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
ANOTHER CONFESSION BY M. BUGUET.
Miss Anna Blackwell has written the following
letter to Mr. W. H. Harrison :—
Dear Mr. Harrison,—I’ve just received from Mme. Ley-
marie a letter, dated yesterday, from which I send you the
following, to use if you will, with or without my name, as you
please.
“ M. Leymarie has just gone to Brussels, to attend the
Spiritist Congress which opens in that city on the 25th; he will
he back by the 30th inst. In order to obtain leave for him to
remain at liberty until the new trial in the Court of Cassation,
we have had to furnish this morning a new bail of £80! We
live in perpetual anxiety and worry; ovir enemies are constantly
inventing some new difficulty that we have to meet as we can.
The hatred they manifest is something incredible.
“ Buguet has completely withdrawn the whole of the false
statements to which he formerly swore. He says he was urged
on to make those statements with the threat that unless he
inculpated M. Leymarie ho should be sentenced to five years’
imprisonment in Mazas, and that ‘ rather than undergo that he
would have sworn to anything-’^ They promised to let him off
free if he inculpated M. Leymarie; but, as they broke their
word and condemned him after all, he gave them the slip. Ho
declares that he only tricked ‘ on a very few occasions, when he
was tired and ill.’ He has tried to obtain spirit-photographs-in
Brussels, at the house of a friend; has succeeded; and finds
that his mediumistic faculty is not impaired by what has passed.
“ However this may be, he has proved himself to be a thorough
scoundrel; and will certainly find that he has earned the con¬
tempt of all honest people.” Anna Blackwell;
Wimille (Pas de Calais), Sept. 44, 1875.
From the above letter it will be seen that M. Buguet,
after doing his best to ruin Messrs. Leymarie and
Firman by false testimony, is now prepared to give
evidence on the other side ! On the evidence of such
a man as this Messrs. Leymarie and Firman have been
unjustly condemned; and the chief value to our cause
of the new position which he has taken up is that the
persecutors who relied so much upon his previous
testimony, cannot well venture to question its value
now that it has turned against themselves. Before this
they were not disposed to admit that M. Buguet would
swear anything which suited his convenience.
Birth.—On the 29th September, at 72, Navarino-road, Dalston,
the wife of Mr. Thomas Blyton, of a son.
National Association Soiree,—The next soirie of the
National Association of Spiritualists will be held on Wednesday,
at 88, Great Russell-street, London, at seven o’clock, as adver¬
tised upon another page. The object of it is to give a public
reception to M. Aksakof and Professor Butlerof, of St. Peters¬
burg.
Brixton Psychological Society.—On Wednesday evening
last week a meeting of the members of the Brixton Psycholo¬
gical Society was held at the house of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
member of the Society of Telegraph Engineers, 6, Loughbo-
rough-road North, Brixton. There was a large attendance, Mr.
Fitz-Gerald had fitted up a powerful electro-magnet. The
spectators first amused themselves by trying a few of the usual
experiments with it, such, for instance, as to cause a mass of iron
nails to adhere by magnetic force, so as to form a short length
of a kind of pliable metallic rope between the poles. The mem¬
bers then separated into two parties. One detachment re¬
mained down stairs with the electro-magnet; the room was
made absolutely dark, and they all sat there for about an hour
to see if any of them were sensitive enough to discern the odic
flames from magnets which Reichenbach says were seen by his
sensitives. The experiment wa-s, however, unsuccessful. Ex¬
periments in mesmerism were tried by the other section of the
members, and one lady—a medium—was found to be sensitive
to the influence; one of her spirits came and complained
bitterly about her being mesmerised, saying that the mesmeric
passes drove away some of the spirits who ordinarily protected
her. Another lady, a good clairvoyant medium, saw and de¬
scribed spirits. Altogether, the experimental results were
small, but, from the social nature of the meeting, an exceedingly
pleasant evening was spent.
ARRIVAL IN- ENGLAND OF M. AKSAKOF AND
PROFESSOR BUTLEROF.
M. Alexandre Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, reached
London last Friday, and Professor Butlerof, of St.
Petersburg University, at the beginning of last week.
These good workers, who have done so much to spread
a knowledge of Spiritualism in Europe, will receive a
public reception at a soiree of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, next Wednesday at seven
o’clock, at 38, Great Russell-street. Mr. D. D. Home
has also been in London/ for about a week; we
regret to state that he is suffering severely from neu¬
ralgia, and has been more or less confined to his bed.
He will probably return to Paris to-day. ' Last
Tuesday evening Miss Douglas, who some years ago
investigated Spiritualism with the late Dr. Robert
Chambers, of Edinburgh, and who has done much to
advance the cause ever since, entertained at dinner at
her residence in South Audley-street, M. Aksakof,
Professor Butler of, Mr. Seijeant Cox, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, and other friends.
There is a large demand for the little book, Spirit People.
Several essays on Spiritualism have been sent in, in com¬
petition for the gold medals of the British National Association
of Spiritualists.
A Gift from “ The Banner of Light.”—The Banner of
Light newspaper has generously made a gift of one hundred
dollars to M. Leynftirie, to assist him in meeting the legal ex¬
penses to which he has been subjected in consequence of the
persecutions in Paris.
Mr. Spurgeon on Spirits.—In a sermon delivered September
12th, Mr. Spurgeon said : “ It is a sad sign of man’s depraved
nature and of his gross carnality that the presence of a spirit is
the source of alarm to him. If we were more spiritual than we
are we should not fear to meet beings of our own order, but
should delight to think of the presence of disembodied spirits
and should be glad enough to commune with them.
A Seance with Mr. Williams.—On Saturday evening last
week, at the ordinary weekly public seance “ for Spiritualists
only,” held at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, Holborn, W.C., there
was a good attendance, notwithstanding that it is the middle of
the dead season in London. Indeed, Mr. Williams, after doing
much hard fighting with the world in the early days of Spirit¬
ualism, is now well established as a first rata physical medium,
the result being that he has a good connection and is full of
engagements from one year’s end to the other, although, perhaps,
there may he a little slackness during the autumn season when
many Spiritualists are out of town. Among the spectators
present last Saturday was M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, who
thus had the opportunity of seeing a good seance with Mr.
Williams, and the way that such meetings are conducted in
London, when a number of experienced Spiritualists are present,
and comply with all those conditions which are known to favour
good manifestations. The seance was of an average character,
so as to give a fair idea of the general nature of the manifes¬
tations. Those manifestations have been so often described in
these pages that it is unnecessary to detail them again ; suffice
it to say the musical instruments floated about the darkened
room while the hands of all the sitters were clasped in
those of their neighbours, and both the hands of the medium
held. In one instance the spirits put a light upon a hand-bell,
then carried it about the room and up to the ceiling with great
velocity, in such a manner as to show that it was carried by an
intelligent power which could see what it was doing, and the
range it took in its flight was larger than that which would
have been the case had the bell been carried by any single
human hand. During the last part of the seance, when tho
cabinet was called into requisition, John King came out and
floated about the room, once or twice going up until his head
touched the ceiling; the upper part of his form was illuminated
by means of a phosphorescent-looking light which he carried in
his hands. Towards the close of the seance, the spirit calling
himself “ Peter ” also showed himself, but not with so bright a
light as to enable his features to be recognised.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 1, 1875.
164
(EmesponTicuce.
[Great Jreedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
Sir,—Spiritualists in Melbourne have not been idle during the
past twelve months. A report of the annual meeting of the
Victorian Association found its way into the columns of the
Argus, and was the subject of a scurrilous sub-loader in this
style: “ The spiritualistic craze once attained such proportions
in the colony, that an Association of the faithful was formed for
the purpose of propagating this particular form of lunacy. For
some time the members succeeded in making a little stir, and
attracting attention to their grotesque absurdities, but recently
they have subsided into oblivion, and their antics are only occa¬
sionally remembered with a pity which is too languid to have
anything in common with contempt.”
The only reply the Association made to this anonymous
scribbler was that they immediately engaged one of the best
halls in Melbourne, and secured the services of Mr. Charles
Bright, who gave a series of thirteen Sunday evening lectures
on free-thought subjects. The hall, accommodating 1,200, was
crammed to the doors, and the maligner was glad enough
to get Mr. Bright’s notes to report at full length. Mr. Tyerman,
after challenging all his opponents in Melbourne, and after a
successful advocacy of Spiritualism for four years, has gone by
invitation to Sydney. Here he opened the campaign in the
theatre to crowded audiences, and then went north to Newcastle,
Brisbane, and other places. He writes me: “ Judge Paul is an
avowed believer, and he informs' me that the Chief Justice is
reading on the subject, and is much interested.”
A successful spirit photograph has been taken at Sandhurst.
In that town there are always half-a-dozen circles in session, and
they have good trance speakers and materialisation manifesta¬
tions. They support their own paper, Lyceum, and Sunday
services. John King is a regular visitor, and they have a
Miss Phillips, a trance medium, formerly a Roman Catholic, who
promises to be developed into a second Mrs. Tappan.
Mr- B. S. Nayler passed on to spirit life last month, aged
eighty. He had been an ardent worker in the cause of truth
for many years, and our first lecturer on Spiritualism in 1869.
About 200 friends attended his funeral, attired in ordinary
dresses, no mourning, and nearly all carrying flowers. He
literally died as he desired, in harness. W. L. R.
Melbourne, July 30th, 1875,
AN EXTRACT FROM THE MEXICAN SPIRITUAL NEWSPAPER.
Sir,—The lines, of which the following are an attempt at a
translation, and which I hope may illustrate the idea of the
original, were composed by a Mexican child named Manuel
Perez Bibbins, aged only ten years. They are published in La
illustration Espirita, of Mexico, No. 38 :—
PRAISE TO GOD.
Voice of my soul arise, arise,
Mount with the morning, hail the night!
Make thyself heard in thunder's guise,
Flash forth like lambent flames of light!
Float upon wings of flying cloud,
Mingle with tempests blustering loud.
Midst roaring seas mayst thou be found ;
And man will never vainly dare,
To slight the eternal hymn of prayer,
Whose echoes through the world resound!
Such is my translation. A. B. 0.
MRS. TAPPAN’S FAREWELL MEETING.
Sir,—There is a general feeling of disappointment at the
sudden departure of Mrs. Tappan for America; but the condi¬
tion of her health renders it desirable that she should spend the
winter in a milder climate than ours, milder even than that of
Cornwall, and possibly California will be the best suited for the
purpose. At all events, her spirit guides have intimated their
wishes, and Mrs. Tappan, without questioning, obeys what is to
her imperative. When .this decision was made known, a fort¬
night since, it was expected that she would not go till the end
of the month, so that her friends might have at least a week or
two to think what had best be done under the. circumstances.
But on Tuesday, the 14th, it was decided that she would sail on
the 22nd, the day following her engagement in Southport. At
this time Mr. Benjamin Coleman, with his usual promptitude,
resolved to act at once, and as Mrs. Tappan was in the neigh¬
bourhood, he wrote to Mr. Marthoze, who is at present residing
in Southport, and to myself, to call a committee to act with
him in the matter. He further intimated that an illuminated
address should be prepared, and, with a few other articles, be
presented to Mrs. Tappan before her departure. On our learn¬
ing that Mrs. Tappan would sail on the 22nd, he determined to
have a copy of the address sent to Southport to be read at a
meeting of a few friends who could bo hurriedly called together
at a day’s notice, the address itself, when finished, to be sent
after her.
Accordingly, on Tuesday, the 21st, at 3.30 p.m., a few
hours before her last oration was to be delivered, about
forty ladies and gentlemen met for the purpose of pre¬
senting to Mrs. Tappan the testimonial—viz., a copy of
the illuminated address, a gold locket, a carriage clock,
a silver sandwich case, an album, and an address from tho
Spiritualists of Oldham, presented by Mr. Thomas Kershaw.
Dr. Hitchman, having been called to the chair, in fervid lan¬
guage paid a high compliment to Mrs. Tappan as a woman and
a medium. Mr. Glynes, who was invited to speak, made a few
observations on the moral tendency of the teachings of Mrs.
Tappan’s spirit-guides, and, as a London Spiritualist, bore high
testimony to the deserved esteem in which she was so justly
held.
Mr. George Thompson, the well-known anti-slavery advocate,
then made a speech which to be appreciated must have been
hoard. It was truly refreshing to hoar the eloquence of the
aged gentleman who once made our legislative halls ring when,
side by side with Wilberforco and other honoured men, he advo¬
cated the cause of universal hujnan freedom; he now once
again lifted his voice in favour of freedom of thought from the
thraldom of spiritual ignorance.
/ The address and gifts having been presented in the name of
the Spiritualists of Great Britain, Mrs. Tappan, under the con¬
trol of her guides, rose and delivered a short address, which
was followed by an inspirational poem appropriate to the occa¬
sion. Of that address and poem I can only say that they were
worthy of the medium and her guides, and tho effect produced
on the minds of those present was of a character never to be
forgotten.
At eight o’clock the same evening—Dr. Hitchman again pre¬
siding—the Assembly-hall was crowded, and Mrs. Tappan de¬
livered her last oration in England, an excellent, but condensed
report of which appeared in the Southport Visitor, which I
enclose, hoping you may be able to spare space for it in your
journal. Indeed, tho Southport local press deserves credit for the
manner in which it has dealt with Mrs. Tappan and Spiritualism.
John Lamont.
Fairfield, Liverpool.
■PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS IN NEWCASTLE.
Sir,—I have been investigating Spiritualism for some three
years, and I have seen some wonderful physical and materialisa¬
tion phenomena, and have listened to many intellectual inspira¬
tional addresses. I have seen, I think, Spiritualism in all its
phases, having had the honour of attending some of the best
seances in the North, more especially those at the house of Mr.
Petty, 6, Norfolk-street, Newcastle. While young Joseph, the
medium, is controlled by “ Black Jack ” and “ White Jack,” he has
been lifted up to the ceiling and carried right round above our
heads. While we have been sitting in a circle, the table (a
heavy one) has been lifted over our heads to tho outside of the
circle, and carried back again without any human agency.
Materialised hands have patted and stroked the heads of the
sitters. One man, a sceptic, tried to keep a materialised spirit-
hand in his own, but it seemed to melt away; he now fully be¬
lieves in the phenomena not being done by trick.
Tho materialised forms have been good, so good that the
sitters at different times have identified their friends, who spoke
to them, telling them things that no one but themselves knew.
One gentleman from London recognised his wife and spoke to
her. She told him of a letter he had received, and of some busi¬
ness he had in hand in London, which he said no one knew of
but himself. She went into the cabinet and returned with a child
in her arms, and held it close to him. None of us know that he
had lost either wife or child, he being a complete stranger.
She sat down upon a chair with the child for about ten minutes.
He told us that.they had departed this life some seven years ago.
This is only one case out of many.
We have some good intellectual trance addresses through Mrs.
Petty. We hadpne of tho best seances on Wednesday, tho 22nd
inst., that we ever witnessed. There were present eight gentle¬
men from Shields and two boys. Mr. Petty is very desirous
that everybody shall see that there is no trickery connected
with it, and, if possible, he gets the strangers to fit the cabinet
up. The cabinet consists of a small rod of iron stretched across
THE SPIRITUALIST.
165
Oct. 1, 1875.
the corner of the room for the curtain rings to slide on, but be
it understood that the mediums seldom or never now go into the
cabinet; they sit outside. The cabinet is only used to contain a
table, which is placed inside with a tambourine, a banjo, and
two bells—a large one and a small one. The mediums, at the
seance just mentioned, sat in front of the cabinet outside, where
the spectators (about seventeen altogether) were looking at
them. Yery soon after taking our seats wo were astonished to
hear both the bells ring with violence, the other instruments
being beaten and thumped; some very heavy blows were
struck on the table when any questions were asked. The
mediums were William and Joseph Petty. We had throe forms
materialised. One of them said she was the departed wife of one
of the sitters, and the mother of the two boys ; she went and
patted the heads and cheeks of the boys, and gave one of them
one of the bells; afterwards she was requested to take the boll
from the boy; aluminous hand with delicate fingers then took the
bell from him and rung it before our eyes. A spirit, calling
herself “ Emma,” then controlled the medium, and gave us an
address, warning us to prepare for the spirit-land; then she
materialised herself, and stood before us. She had a fine figure
and beautiful features; we shall know her, she says, by her
white lights which she shows before she materialises herself ;
her light is white because she is in a higher sphere than the
other spirits. The third figure which appeared was little
Johnny, Mrs. Petty’s son. William Lee.
42, Pine-street, Newcastle, Sept. 24th, 1S75.
MR. ». D. HOME ON REINCARNATION.
Sir,—I am quite at a loss to understand why my good friend
Frank L. Burr, editor of the Hartford Times, Hartford, Conn.,
in “ A Strange and Startling Story ” (from the New York Sun),
and copied by you in The Spiritualist of August 20th, should
not give his name and place of residence. An outline of the
story is given in vol. 1st, Incidents in My Life. I am just about
to bring out a third edition of that volume, and every name—
without a single exception—will be given in full, with the address,
so that there can be no sort of doubt as to the identity. No one
need be ashamed of acknowledging the simple truth ; no one will
be burnt at the stake; and no very great sacrifice is required in
our day. Twenty-one or more years ago, when Mr. Burr’s
“ Startling Story ” took place, the position was different, and
even when my book was printed, I felt a hesitancy about giving
names. I was reproached for this by some good friends whose
names are only in initials,For,” said they, “ it may be thought
wo shrink from the avowal of our belief.” I am now fully deter¬
mined to make every investigator share the responsibility of the
truth.
It is highly reprehensible to allow the onus to rest with the
few noble minds—Mr. Varley, Mr. Crookes, Mr. Wallace, and
others—who place themselves as volunteers in the foremost
ranks. In future every one, of position or of no position, will
just have to do their duty. Our stronghold is invulnerable : it
is “ Fact v. Fancy,” “Knowledge v. Belief.” In 1857 the Duke
de Morny said to His Majesty Napoleon IH., “ Do you mean to
say, Sire, that you really believe in what you have seen with
Mr. Home ? ” The Emperor replied, “ Believe in what I have
seen ! Oh dear, no; I do not believe in the manifestations.”
The duke was greatly delighted with the reply, and said, “ I
have always maintained that your Majesty did not believe, and
now it will give me great pleasure to be able to assure those who
mention the subject to me that I was right in my surmises.” “ Not
so fast, not so fast,” said the Emperor ; “ you may well assure
them that I do not believe, for you may add that I know it to be
true, and there is a vast difference between belief and certitude.”
As regards the articles my cousin’s, M. Aksakof’s, article on
“ Reincarnation ” has called out, I have only to wonder how
the deep debt of gratitude I owe to M. Kardec can ever be
shown, insomuch that during my long stay in France, where
hundreds were convinced, he should once have merely men¬
tioned my name in his books, and it is to be found in The
Medium's Book, 12th French edition, page 88. How charming
to be able to give the book and page.
In Miss Anna Blackwell’s letter of Aug. 27th, I fear she has
quite overlooked the very important fact that in my case, when
she says I gave her proof of her previous existence (“ as once,
by Mr. Home in trance ”), I was not then a physical medium,
but in trance. I would feel greatly obliged if Miss Blackwell
would give us, through your columns, the proof that “ M.
Aksakof’s assertion is contradicted by facts.” I would like the
facts occurring in my own case. Words uttered in a trance, as
in a waking state, may easily bo construed in different ways,
in Miss Blackwell’s letter she put all controversy on this point
out of the question by stating I was not at the time a physical
medium.
It is an astounding bit of news as stated in the same letter, that
Camille BrMif was not a medium, and“ only developed last year.”
This must be a truly wonderful reincarnation, for I can take oath
that Camille was a medium for physical manifestations, and hands
were felt and seen in 1862; how much earlier I know not, but
certainly some years. Miss Blackwell speaks of “ materialisa¬
tion ” as “ a direct consequence of Mr. Williams’ visit to Paris ;
previous to that visit the influence which renders ‘ materialisa¬
tion ’ possible does not seem to have crossed the channel.” If
the facts of reincarnation are like this assertion, I fear they
are flimsy. In 1857 the hand of Napoleon I. was seen to take
up a pencil and write; this was through my mediumship at the
Tuileries. Assertions are not facts, and facts ought to be ascer-.
tained before assertions are made.
I meet many who are reincarnationists, and I have had the
pleasure of meeting at least twelve who were “ Marie Antoi¬
nettes,” six or seven “ Mary Queen of Scots,” a whole host of
“ Louis ” and other kings, about twenty “ Alexander the Greats
but it remains for me yet to meet a plain “ John Smith,” and I
beg of you, if yon meet one, to cage him as a curiosity.
I think it my duty to say here that in my dressing-room one
morning, in the presence of the present Earl of Dunraven,
Allan Kardec came and said, “ Je regret d'avoir enseigner la
doctrine spirite.” (“ I regret to have taught the spirite doctrine.”)
The fact is that this was the day following his departure from
earth, and I was not then aware that he had passed away. I
need not explain the difference between “ Spirite ” and
“ Spiritualismof course the former are reincarnationists.
D. D. Home.
Paris, Sept, 22nd, 1875,
THE CULTIVATION OK HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—If we wish to derive the greatest aid from intercourse with
disembodied spirits, it is clear that we should strive to act so as to
invite the co-operation of the most noble spirits, and we may be
sure that the best of them (embodied or disembodied) will joyf ully
help in the development of healing by spiritual aid. Doubtless great
caution will be requisite, both in trying experiments and also in
describing the results, and no effort should be spared to sur¬
round healing mediums with the purest influences, and make
them happy and honoured, whilst impostors should bo exposed
without mercy. I would ask leave to suggest that a Spiritualist
paper will have to exercise great caution in admitting advertise¬
ments which direct attention to individual healing mediums, for
the public will and ought to hold the proprietor of a Spiritualist
paper responsible for the truthfulness of any so advertised
claim.
A clergyman who distinguished himself at his university, a
sound scholar and a true gentleman, has very kindly given me
particulars relative to remarkable cures effected by himself in
his poor country parish, guided only by communications through
trance mediums, in themselves quite ignorant of medical terms
or facts. This he has done for years : he has never felt himself
at liberty to evoke a spirit, but he expresses no opinion on this
head with respect to what others do. Nothing can be more un¬
selfish or more modest than the spirit in which this clergyman
has beneficently laboured.
Permit mo hero to suggest that a wealthy Spiritualist might
advance the cause by presenting to the Bishop of Natal a copy
each of the following works:—Miracles and Modern Spiritualism,
by Wallace ; The Phenomena of Spiritualism, by Crookes; ora¬
tions of Mrs. Tappan, and any volume by the late Judge Ed¬
monds. If only these were sent, it would be a kindness to the
Bishop, whose time is, of course, much occupied. Hopeful.
[Newspaper editors cannot inquirejinto the credentials of advertisers; in a
daily paper such a course would require a permanent staff of some hun¬
dreds of detectives, and smaller journals in proportion. The public must
look out for themselves, or appoint and pay representatives to do the work
for them.—Eix]
Sir,—Will you kindly permit these f ew lines to appear in The
Spiritualist. On behalf of our afflicted brethren, a disciple of
the Great Master is in our midst, taking upon himself the suf¬
ferings of others. Ye that are sick go and testify as I have
done, and be healed. Dr. Mack has the finest transitive power
and control I have ever witnessed. I would recommend suf¬
ferers to enter the doctor’s presence in a passive state of mind,
or a receptive one at least, for their own benefit.
Though I have private reasons for withholding my name, I
may state that I am well-known to Miss Kislingbury, who is at
liberty to give further particulars of my case to any one desir¬
ing information. C.
Crescent Wood-road, Upper Sydenham Hill,
166
THE SPIRITUALIST
Oct. 1, 1875.
REPORTS OP SEANCES.
Sir,—Mr. Atkinson’s letter impressed me with surprise and
delight, for after having taken to heart his severe rebuke, I
rejoiced in discovering that it came from the same source
which, to the best of my knowledge, guided me in my actions,
namely, unmasked truth-seeking, regardless of material conse¬
quences. I turned at once to my own letter in question to
ascertain where uncertainty of expression might have caused his
censure, and must admit that some points demand further expla¬
nation. It was far from my intention to recommend curtailing or
selection of facts to suit taste, but simply to avoid mixing them
more or less with the individual emotions of the reporter. A
calm unvarnished description of all the facts (my own ideal of a
report) brought to light in a seance, contains generally enough
in itself to counteract a hasty rush to belief in a new inquirer;
therefore, any additional reflection from the mind of the writer
may interfere with the final effect. The strictly scientific
spirit, which characterises the Spiritualist, and Mr. Atkinson’s
admirable letters in particular, trained me in my course of ob¬
servation, and I should be a bad pupil indeed if found meddling
with the proper development of truth. When I alluded to that
unfortunate spirit-dog which marred the otherwise exceptionally
attractive number of the Spiritualist, it was only an expression
of regret, not of censure, that, after many curious visitors
might have flocked to the temple, this unexpected animal should
bark them out again. When a special number of the Spiritualist
was issued to widen the field of inquirers, care was taken (and
justly so) not to irritate the new reader with perplexing antago¬
nistic testimony. An editor must bear in mind that the world is
neither a vast field for amusement nor a schoolroom only. Would
it be wise to show through a telescope to a young man just cured
from blindness, the dark, sometimes terrible-looking, spots upon
the glorious sun ? I heartily agree with Mr. A. that truth-seeking
is not smooth work. Alas! it is my own experience. First,
we were insulted for believing or knowing the facts; now we
must be prepared for' another assault, for they have to be
admitted. ’ C, Reimers.
Manchester, Sept. 25th.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN CARDIFF.
Dear Sir and Brother in Belief,—I cannot conceive any¬
thing likely to be more profitable to the propagation of Spirit¬
ualism in South Wales than the visit with which we were last week
favoured in this town by Dr. Monck. Under the most rigorous
conditions of investigation this extraordinary man proved to us
not only the existence of “ psychic force,” but also the reality
of the same independently of his personality and that of the
sitters; or, in other words, the communication of invisible
agents—of spirits—with humanity. The pen is powerless to
describe one by one the phenomena produced here by Dr.
Monck in six seances which he held in different places and
under the conditions imposed both by the Spiritualists of the
town and by sceptical investigators. Raps, the suspension of
inert bodies without contact, spirit lights, spirit hands, com¬
munications of a philosophical character and very elevated
morality, and even on two occasions the materialisation of
spirits: all these phenomena have been, I repeat, demonstrated
through the mediumship of Dr. Monck, with whose rare
faculties as a medium, are combined the attainments of a pro¬
found and scientific scholar, and the traits which distinguish a
perfect gentleman.
I venture to believe that Dr. Monck had reason to be also
satisfied with the fraternal reception given him here, not only
by the Spiritualist Society in Cardiff and its worthy president,
Mr. Lewis, but also by all those who during his short stay had
the pleasure of making his acquaintance.
Apologising for trespassing on your valuable space at such
length,—I am, Sir, yours truly, J. Valet y Villara.
Cardiff, 25th September, 1875.
ALLAN KARDEC AND PROGRESS IN THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Sir,—If Miss Kislingbury have access to Kardec’s Qu'est-ce
que le Spiritisms ? she will find at p. 175, q. 156, what she
requires. A. K. allows that “ the spirit progresses, more or
less, according to its desire (more or less) to progress, but that
it requires to put in practice, during the corporeal life, what it
has acquired in science and morality.” Spirit existence seems
to bo analogous to the mesmeric state, i.e., one eminently
adapted for the formation of good resolutions; but to try these,
contact with matter seems necessary. Our temptations, the
trials of our good resolutions, come to us chiefly through our
material wants.
As regards another moot point, the preservation of one’s
individuality through various incarnations, it must be remem¬
bered that the body is but the outward expression of the state
of development, for the time being, of the spirit within. A low-
crowned savage, whose head and the expression of wdiose face
show the predominance of the passions within, may, after death,
progress much in knowledge and morality, and, if reincarnated,
would necessarily appear with a head and face and body also of
a far more advanced type than he possessed in his former
earth-life. To the bodily eye he would be a different being—he
would have lost his identity—while to the eye of the spirit he
would still be the same person, but spiritually grown and
altered, just as the man is the former child physically grown
and altered—“ grown out of recollection,” as the saying is.
Qu’est-ce que le Spiritisme may be procured for one shilling
through any foreign bookseller, and is a far more handy com¬
pendium to put into an inquirer’s hands than the Spirit's Book.
Reincarnation can only as yet be looked upon as a theory—not
as a proved fact. H. M.
Bath, 1875.
CONJURORS’ ROPE-TYING TRICKS.
Sir,—Your correspondent K ” has described so accurately
the dark seances of the two (apparently English) performers
who call themselves Herr Dobler and Professor Wemulf, that
it is perfectly evident that they are the persons whom he means.
If so, there is this slight difference between their performance
and that of Mrs. Fay, for instance, that while the latter has passed
through the ordeal of most satisfactory scientific tests, as de¬
scribed in The Spiritualist, the modus operandi of the former
was to me glaringly manifest. I enclose a sketch of the way
in which “ Professor” Wernulf tied himself. His wrists were
at W W, behind his back. As long as he kept a strain on the
ropes, which passed down beneath the lower back rung of his
chair, to his feet, his wrists were tightly confined by the ropes;
but, as you will see at once, when he relaxed the strain he
could draw his hands through the loops without the slightest
difficulty. It was very ludicrous to see the committee chosen
by the audience innocently and gravely sealing the knot, which
was situated as I have drawn it. Except that I do not wish to
be discourteous, I should say they were muffs, M.
AN OFFER TO CLAIRVOYANTS BY DR. WYLDE.
Sir,—I have to thank you for giving admittance to my letter
in your issue of the 3rd of this month, and I feel equally flattered
by the remarks made on me by my friend Mr. Atkinson in Tlte
Spiritualist of the 17th.
My object is an honest one. While nearly all the leading men
of our country are inclined to throw discredit on the reality of
the wonderful phenomena said to be witnessed nearly every day
by Spiritualists, several men of undoubted sagacity and scien¬
tific repute have come boldly forward to avouch the truth of
what they have seen.
It seems to me that in this position of affairs it is the duty of
philosophers, theologians, and, in fact, of all lovers of truth, to
Endeavour to devise means of testing the nature and verity of
phenomena so marvellous, and, if true, so important at once to
science and religion. It was with this object that I proposed
two simple experiments—viz., first to test the Spiritualist’s
power of reading, say, four sentences folded and placed within
four separate sealed envelopes corresponding in external ap¬
pearance, and second to test his power to move a pencil and
make it write on a piece of paper placed along with it under a
glass cover.
Some five or six years ago a friend and I wrote to an enthu¬
siastic believer in Spiritualism resident in London, offering £100
Oct". 1, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST
167
if he could find any proficient able to execute the first of these
experiments ; but at that time our correspondent could find no
person in London to compete for this prize. I am still ready to
risk a similar sum on the successful Spiritualistic performance
of the simple experiments named.
I would require that the experiments should be made in Edin¬
burgh, because I could there get four persons whose known
honesty, reputation, and general competence would give weight
and authority to the results, whether these should prove favour¬
able to Spiritualism or the reverse.
The experiments might be made, say, any time in November
or December, to suit parties. They would inquire to be per¬
formed in sufficient light to enable us to use our eyes and
perceive the objects; and I propose to allow, if necessary, three
seances, say of two hours each, to afford sufficient time for the
Spiritualist testing his powers.
Mr. Atkinson, who has long had an opportunity of joining in
spiritualistic ch'cles in London, assumes the undoubted truth of
the phenomena, and considers the question of real importance
to bo, “ What is the nature of the unseen influence which pro¬
duces the phenomena ? ” Now although I have every confidence
in Mr. Atkinson’s sagacity, I nevertheless venture to impugn the
genuineness of the phenomena. I ascribe them to legerdemain,
and I am willing, in the cause of truth, to risk the sum named,
which shall be paid over to the party who is successful.
Robert S. Wyi.de.
Cragfran, Grantown, Strathspey,
22nd September, 1875.
[We do not see what connection the successful or unsuccessful result of
a trial of the experiment suggested by Dr. Wylde would have with Spirit¬
ualism. It might be a proof of the reality of clairvoyance, but although
the mesmerists of the past generation were versed in clairvoyance, it did
not lead them to believe in spirits; and when test results were obtained
they had no influence on the outside world, except that of bringing down
a shower of abuse upon the observers. Those in the inner circles of Spirit¬
ualism are quite apathetic about the opinions of disbelievers, having learnt
by experience that it is not worth while to try to convert any but those who
are giving time and work to find out truth for themselves—even these have
to wait their turn to get access to seances with noted mediums, and some
are unable to obtain the privilege, since the demand for admission is so
great. The best plan for those who wish to learn about the reality of
spiritual phenomena is to form circles in their own homes, with none but
members of their own families present.—Ei> ]
THE MATERIALISATION OK SPIRITS IN CARDIFF.
Sir,—Will you kindly allow the following report to appear in
the columns of your invaluable Spiritualist, trusting that these
facts may induce other localities in the Principality to avail
themselves of the extraordinary mediumship of our friend Dr.
Monck, feeling assured that such engagements would greatly
benefit the Spiritual cause ? Dr. Monck having been invited
by the Cardiff circle to give a series of seances under test con¬
ditions, both in private and in public, so varied and astounding
were the phenomena that many of our sceptical friends were
thoroughly confounded, if not actually convinced. To be as
brief as possible, I shall enumerate a few of the most prominent
features of what we saw.
We witnessed moving of inert matter without contact; the
extending and contracting of the accordion when held with one
hand with the keys downward ; the sounding of musical instru¬
ments : all this was done in the light. When the light was
extinguished spirit-hands began floating about the room, aud
individual names were uttered, conclusively accounting for the
historical fact of “the writing on the wall.” So satisfactory
were these results that the interest became overwhelming, inas¬
much as they boro intimate relation to individuals in the circle.
The violent shaking of the house was truly awful, and I trust
the means of dislodging many muddled notions. The lifting of
a large six-logged dining-table, and rocking it to and fro as a
child would a cradle; the levitation of the medium on to the
shoulders of a lady; the direct voice of the spirit, whilst the
medium’s mouth was filled with water, were equally striking.
I now desire to call your attention to a private seance which
took place at my own house. There were three ladies and
eight gentlemen present, without the medium, forming a very
harmonious circle. After sitting a short time, Dr. Monck’s
spirit-guide, Samuel, promised a materialisation in the light.
A cabinet was hastily formed in a comer of the room, by
fastening a couple of shawls to a line. In a few minutes
a misty cloud was seen forming on the outside of the
screen; presently it assumed the form of a female with
flowing dress, and beckoning to Dr. Monck while he was sitting
On the opposite side of the room, the doctor went across into the
cabinet, and while he was standing with his hands on the top of
the screen, the guide announced the presence of another spirit
named George, whose head and shoulders were distinctly seen
by all in the room. It appeared to be an elderly person of dark
complexion, wearing a white head-dress; he was recognised by
the Spanish Vice-consul, who spoke to the spirit in Spanish; he
bowed his head repeatedly and retired. The next spirit was a
lady, whom Samuel promised to show at the same time as the
medium, outside the cabinet; they soon came out together, the
spirit holding out her hand and bowing. Samuel said she had
blue eyes. When asked to show her feet, she raised her drapery,
and the toes were distinctly seen. She then was requested to
put her foot on the table ; she instantly did so. At last she bade
us farewell, while Samuel was talking to others. So terminated
our first essay in materialisation.
Our seance was prolonged far beyond the usual time by the
deliverance of a most impressive and eloquent sermon, clothed
in refined language, on “ Spiritual light.” The medium was
controlled by the immortal Christmas Evans, so well known and
remembered when he ministered in Cardiff; the utterances and
composition were truly beautiful, and every listener seemed
transfixed in breathless attention for the space of twenty
minutes. The controlling spirit finally announced that this
would be his last visit to earth; he then retired to his heavenly
abode.
The next control was the Rev. Mr. So-and-So, a minister of the
Church of England, who delivered a most laughable burlesque
on the mannerisms, slang, and set phrases of the present
fashionable mode of preaching, thoroughly ignoring that defor¬
mity known as the letter R. Notwithstanding its facetiousness,
it was full of sound sense and argument! he then retired
amidst laughter. Thus terminated the best seance I have ever
attended.
I wish it to be understood that Dr. Monck was a perfect
stranger at Cardiff, and that at all the public seances his hands
were held by sceptics. T. Williams.
32, Great Frederick-street, Cardiff.
THE SUFFERINGS OF THE DYING.
Sir,—In cases of dangerous illness, where the suffering is
great and recovery hopeless, medical men often abstain from
administering opiates to relieve pain. Can some of your profes¬
sional readers inform me why they act in this way, thus appa¬
rently causing needless agony; and can any mediums or others
give me information as to the influence of opiates upon the
natural process of the severance of the spirit from the
body ? ' X,
THE “EXAMINER” ON KARDEC’S SPECULATIONS.
The Examiner has published a review of the Spirits' Book,
which is more in the spirit of ill-natured satire than of impar¬
tial criticism. This is what the writer calls giving “an
outline of the theory of immortality”:—
Every spirit, after many incarnations in this world and
others, becoming purer after each progressive incarnation, will
at last attain perfection; and like the hero and heroine of three-
volume novels, live happily ever afterwards. It is to be feared
that this beneficent programme may prove attractive to weak
and ignorant people who have a horror of annihilation or
eternal punishment.
Again :—
They were impolite enough to inform Mr. Rivail that he
had been more than once a cannibal. The possibility of having
to believe that in a previous state of existence one digested
one’s grandmother, and further back still figured as a skunk or
a slug, may counteract the more fascinating tenets of the
Spirits’ Hook.
The reviewer concludes in the following manner: —
It is fair to say that there is a great deal in the book which,
on Mr. Mill’s theory, one might believe, if one liked, to be
possible or probable, though we think the effort would be sad
waste of time. We find, moreover, a goodly leaven of truisms.
M. Rivail ignores the tricks with which professional mediums
have made us familiar, and though he maintains that “ spirits ”
are visible and tangible, only mentions the modest miracles of
table-turning and the planchette. He seems to have been an
earnest man, and shows no traces of immorality or vulgarity.
In conclusion, we ought to mention that “ the spirits ” are not
absolute apostates, but look upon their former faiths as par¬
tially true or allegorical. M. Rivail seems therefore very
tolerant towards all persuasions save that of Materialism.
Mrs. Ross-Church has been giving highly popular public
readings in Leeds and the provinces this week.
168
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oot. 1, 1875.
^rnbtnctal
BIRMINGHAM.
Here Spiritualism is just now at a standstill, if such can be
said of that which is progressive. Mrs. Groom’s ill-health
prevents her sitting regularly; the recent departure from this
life of her daughter being the cause of her illness. Miss Bessie
Williams’s trance-mediumship requires much training with
harmonious sitters, as at present it is only in an incipient stage
of development. There are besides several private circles, but
they wisely close their doors to strangers. There is one held in
Hagley-road, Edgbaston, one in Vama-road, one in Ostler-street,
Edgbaston, and another in Newhall-street, Birmingham ; there
are besides others consisting of members of the families only.
NEW CASTLE- ON-TYNE.
Mr. and Mrs. Petty have been having good phenomena
lately at their seances.
The North of England Advertiser, a local weekly paper, has
a “ Lokil Letter,” written in the Tyneside dialect every week,
and for the past two or three weeks it has been holding
Spiritualism and Mrs. Tappan up to ridicule ; but last week the
editor, to make amends, treated the readers to a “true ghost
story,” by giving the narrative recorded by Lord Brougham in
his autobiography.
Newcastle Spiritual Society. — The seances at Weirs-
court are on the whole satisfactory, as far as phenomena are
concerned. On the evening of Sept. 19th about five-and-twenty
members assembled for a dark seance. Misses Wood and
Fairlamb were the mediums; the manifestations were more
powerful than usual, and there was ah uninterrupted flow of
physical phenomena for about an hour and a half. But on
Thursday evening, the 23rd, a seance for materialisation was not
so successful. There were about thirty persons present; the
singing was good, also the accompaniment on the harmonium,
but whether the circle was too large, or whether some of the
members were too sceptical, and others too importunate in their
requests to the spirit form to do/this or that, it certainly did
not remain outside the cabinet more than five minutes, nor did
it come more than a few feet into the circle. Some difference of
opinion exists among the members as to the figure being a
materialised form, or the medium dressed up in drapery by the
spirits.
SOUTH SHIELDS.
A New Medium.—This town is, as most persons are aware,
a seaport situated at the mouth of the Tyne, and is not an
inviting place to come to, unless business calls one here. It
has been brought into notice a little lately on account of the
underground fires and the excavations carried on in search of
Roman remains. Whether it will be brought into more pro¬
minent notice eventually through modem Spiritualism making
a foothold there remains to be seen. Extremes meet, and the
inhabitants may turn their attention upwards, and find some¬
thing at least equal to their resources and results from below.
'There are a number of Spiritualists here, and a circle meets
regularly at 43, Palmeston-street, High Shields, at the house of
Mr. Lambell, who is a trance medium. He is about five-and-
twenty years of age, and has been an investigator of Spiritualism
for about twelve months only. He and one or two others first
sat for table-tilting in the way of fun, but soon obtained more
than they bargained for in the way of strong physical manifesta¬
tion’s and entrancement. Fortunately the uncle of the medium,
being a practical intelligent man, and a mesmerist, saw at once
that there was more in it than at first appeared, and, following
the directions of the entranced medium, they formed a regular
circle. They now meet three times a week—-viz., Sundays for
trance-speaking, Tuesdays for materialisations, and Thursdays
for general phenomena and what they can get. One of the
members of the circle is an experienced photographer; the
medium has sat several times to see if they could get spirit photo¬
graphs, and the results are said to have been to some extent success¬
ful. One of the spirits who occasionally controls the medium an¬
nounces himself as a barrister, and for a long time refused to
tell his .name, but eventually gave it as William Noy, Attorney-
General to Charles L, 1631, of which they knew nothing, but
eventually found the statement to be correct. On Sunday even¬
ing last, the 26th inst., the circle numbered about a dozen per¬
sons, one or two of whom were also mediums under development;
the medium was controlled, gave good spiritual teachings, and
answered several questions, one of which was: “ Do you intend
in the future to bring your medium before the public ? ” The
answer being: “ We do not intend hiding our light under a
bushel; nor do we intend thrusting it into the cold blast of dark
materialism ; but when our light is sufficiently strong, and we
see our way clear to use it to advantage, we will not fail to
do so.”
The medium is controlled without much difficulty, and his
manner, voice, and gesture change with each spirit. He speaks
fluently, philosophically, and without dogmatism; he has been
to no other circles, is totally unconscious when under control,
is rather modest, and does not seem to realise his own powers
of mediumship. The circle on Sunday-night was a select one,
one or two members being Quakers, and the religious element
predominated. Recently about half a dozen friends, along
with the medium, had an outdoor seance on the sea shore on the
rocks, when the medium was controlled and gave an address.
Return or Mr. J. J. Morse.—A soiree will be held at the
Cavendish Rooms on Wednesday evening, the 3rd November,
to welcome the well-known trance medium, Mr. J. J. Morse, on
his return from the United States. Mr. Morse will give an ac¬
count of hif/ experiences in America, therefore a full gathering
of friends from all parts of London may be expected on this
interesting occasion.
Buguet’s Mediumship.—The Proces des Spirites contains a
letter from the Comte de Bullet to Leymarie, certifying to the
likeness of the “ double ” of the Count’s sister. It contains the
following: “In consequence of the bad use he (Buguet) made
of his mediumship, he sought for means of supplementjhg it,
for he knew very well he was losing it. He often said to me,
‘ I am losing my faculty, and am often a long time without
obtaining anything.’ ” Evidence of this kind runs all through
the correspondence collected in the Proccs, Buguet’s own letter,
being the most self-condemnatory of any.
Mr. C. F. Yarley, F.R.S., is still in Switzerland. The Countess
of Caithness is at Barrogill Castle, Caithness-shire, and expects to
return to Stagenhoe in a few days from this time. M. Gustave do
Yeh is at Interlaken. Mrs. Makdougall Gregory is at Hurst-
pierpoint, Sussex. Mrs. Schletter, who is now at Marienbad,
Austria, is about to return to London; Mr. Wiese, the gentleman
who publicly expressed to Messrs. Maskelyhe and Cook at the
Egyptian Hall his opinion of them, is at Wiesbaden, and will
stay there for some months. Signor Damiani is in Naples. Mr.
Charles Blackburn and Miss Blackburn intend to visit Italy
during a part of the coming winter.
A Seance with Mrs. Kate Fox Jencken.—Last Friday
night a seance was held at the residence of Mr. H. D. Jencken,
barrister-at-law, through the mediumship of Mrs. Jencken
(Kate Fox). The other members of the circle were Mr.
Jencken, Mr. Webster Glynes, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. Not
much took place at the seance, but the little that occurred was
good. Mrs. Jencken sat in one corner of the dark room away
from the other sitters, and asked Mr. Harrison to hold both her
hands. He was then strongly fingered by spirit-hands, which
grasped his ankles, and in one instance were seen by one of the
other sitters, as they passed between his eyes and the partly
open folding doors, through which opening a little light was
streaming in from the next room. The spirits made an ap¬
pointment for another meeting in relation to which they said
they would make special preparations.
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—On Sunday
last Dr. Sexton delivered two discourses at the Cavendish
Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street; that in the morning on
the “ Influence of Christ’s Teaching on the World,” and that in
the evening on “ Primeval Man. Was he a Savage or a Civi¬
lised Being ?” These discourses were the last of four on the
“ Origin of Man.” There was a good attendance at the morn¬
ing discourse, and in the evening the place was crowded; The
evening discourse consisted of an elaborate discussion of the
condition of primeval man, as far as could be judged from the
knowledge afforded by palaeontology, archaeology, language,
and the present condition of savages. The conclusion arrived
at by the speaker was that the primitive condition of man was
certainly not that of a savage, the speaker thereby placing him¬
self at variance on this point with nearly all scientific men who
of late years have given attention to the question. The series
of four lectures on the “ Origin of Man,” now concluded, Dr.
Sexton says will be shortly published in a small volume. On
Sunday next he will deliver two discourses ; that in the morning
on “ Christianity and Reason,” and that in the evening on the
“ Idea of God.” Service in the morning at eleven; in tho
evening at seven.
Oot. 1, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOr, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER,
38, GEEAT EUSSELL-STEEET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by tbe Hon. Eobert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDAEY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. Cd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s. ; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, E.R.8. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
Miracles and modern spiritualism, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. Tills book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also records a largo number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. Cd.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant',
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Gd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Ered. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general Information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. XL, by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub-
iished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 153.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a ■writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Science! and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit'and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst otjSpiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
* Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Cloth 10s. Gd.
PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrroundea. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous ‘engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
ibis book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability; of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual power’s in
man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—"Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
■•This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. Gd.
ALLAN EARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
v ala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth.Best edition. Gilt, 10s. Gd.; cheap edition, 7s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems... 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY ACHSA Wl SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. 0. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T; (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Eree Will. 2s. Gd.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. Gd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 6s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. BuckniU and Dr. Daniel
H. Tnke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazlilu and other Tribe*
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P
Barkas
APPARITIONS i A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee’, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Art*
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 3s. Gd.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
Spirit. 12mo.i 600 np.
THE RISE AND
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 1, 1875;
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer”
Nature’s Divine Revelations .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
“' „ II.
„ HI.
.. IV. „
V.
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arahula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . .
llistory and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Eree Thoughts Concerning Religion .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . ,
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . .
Morning Lectures . . . . ,
s. d.
15 0
7 0
2 0
4 0
4 0
7 6
4 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) * . . -
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . . . . . .
Keys of the Creeds . . ....
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . -
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) ......
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ......
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . ...
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Suu-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a. d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B:A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . . . . > • . . . .
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts ......
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre¬
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. .
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A. . . . . .
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . .
On Exalted States of the Nervous System: an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. , . . ...
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . .
The Koran ; ■ commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . .'
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
lor Schools ......
0 6
7 6
3 0
7 6
i. <L
24 0
2 6
6 0
14 0
6 0
18 0
12 <i
16 0
7 6
10 6
16 0
10 6
10 6
6 0
12 0
2 0
12 0
3 C
18 0
10 6
1 0
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
v*
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMS HIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. Cd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
•'ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam-
’ phlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
. Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
.Cotiant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
rpHE ISLINGTON PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION
J. -FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES, ID, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. Mrs. Bullock and other healers in attendance daily from 11 a.m.
till 2 p.m., Sundays from 11 a.m. till 1 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, prin¬
cipals.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jpnes, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—t&x. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu'
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the/dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
In the Press and will be shortly published in ono volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
- tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 16.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
,, 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 1C to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may he obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.C,
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
jlOR the CURE OP NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool,
per arrangement.
11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
J. Coates, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIQG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granviile-
square, London, W.C. At home daily from 10 till 5.
THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM is discussed
in the number of the NONCONFORMIST for Wednesday, Sep¬
tember 15th, in an elaborate Essay reviewing all the recent works on the
subject, and referring to late personal experiences. By a Man of Science.
Sent by post on the receipt of Fivepence. 18, Bouverie-street, Fleet-
street, E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
