[Registered as a Newspaper.
SKJ) J 01‘ fv V T<
(Dlfresf St^fosppr r0im^!tr foitlj Spinfwalxsm hx (Smf Jhifaxir.
THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindehstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The Internationa!
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British ’ Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. ; SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office, MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Rearney-street.
No. 192.—(VOL. VIIL—-No. 17.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1876.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
orontents.
Spiritualism and St. Petersburg University  193
The Attempted Investigation of Spiritual Phenomena
at St. Petersburg. By the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof ... 193
Extraordinary Psychological Powers  194
Crucifixion and Resurrection.—Self-Sacrifice and Re¬
generation. An Easter Message given to M. A., OXon... 195
The Labours of Andrew Jackson Davis. By J. N. T.
Martheze ... IK1!?."  '   196
The National Association of Spiritualists   197
The Testmonial to Mrs. Tappan  197
Jocular and Religious Seances. By Cromwell F. Varley,
F.R.S   -    198
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris... ...   198
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Planchette
Writing—On the Psychology of Wit and Humour ... 198
The Public Records, of Spiritualism     •... 199
On the Exact Meaning of some Terms commonly used in
Psychology:—1. Development, Evolution—2. Death—
3. Individuality—4. Elementary Spirits—5. Life  199
Correspondence:—More about Publius Syrus—Mr. Black¬
burn’s Seances—Spiritualism a Fact—A Seance at the
Brixton Psychological Society—‘‘Hafed, Prince of
Persia ’’—The Homogeneous Nature of Spirit—Na¬
tional Association Ofifices—Spirit Hands and Arms ... 202
Provincial News:—Leigh, Italian Spoken through a Me¬
dium not Conversant with the Language—Newcastle. 204
Paragraphs:—An Abridgment of Swedenborg’s Worts,
201; Spiritual Phenomena in Rome, 204; Presenti¬
ments, 204; Spiritualism and Scientific Committees... 204
^Established in 1869.
pHABGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
vJ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
ixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement* Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipts of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London. E.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Nioeford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23. - ^ -   -
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published hy the SocUti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Oapueines, Paris.
"OIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chanoery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London:—Simbkin, Marshall & Co.
Reduced to Half-price!
ERMONS by T. L. HARRIS. Loudon Series.
Containing—I.—Modern Spiritualism.
IL—Heart Wants of London.
IIL—Christ Incarnate.
IV.—Liberty and Progress.
In limp cloth binding, 6d.; free by post, 7d.
John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow, and Mrs. Connor,
15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
s
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliZKCC. with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
■ President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
rister at-Law, Member of Oounoil and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council:
Mrs. O. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Biyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Ilmorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Bltton.
Room:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can ionly be admitted to the ordinary stance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to\special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or.narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of tlie privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of whicli can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to he addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circic regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further infonnation, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All suhsoriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for May, 1876.
Wednesday, Zrd.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell-street, at 6.30 p.m
Music, conversation, and Refreshments. Open
to Members and Friends. Admission Is.
Thursday, ith.—Mrs. Olive’s Private Seance, at 38, Great
Russell-street, at 2 p.m. Public Seance at
4 p.m.
Friday, 5th.—Seance for Inquirers, Mr. W. Eglinton medium,
at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, Zth.—Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m,
„ Council Meeting at 6.3o p.m.
Thursday, HfA.—Mrs. Olive’s Private Seance, at 38, Great
Russell-street, at 2 p.m. Public Seance at
4 p.m.
Friday, \Wi.—Seance Committee at 6.30 p.m. Seance for In¬
quirers, Mr. W. Eglinton, medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 16$.—Provincial Societies Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Thursday, 18$.—Mrs. Olive’s Private Seance, at- 38, Great
Russell-street, at 2 p.m. Public Seance at
4 pm.
Friday, IZth.—Seance for Inquirers, Mr. W. Eglinton medium,
at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 23rd.—Prize Essay Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ Annual General Meeting of Members,
at 6.30.
Friday, 2Qth.—Soiree Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
,, Seance for Inquirers, Mr. W. Eglinton medium,
at 7.30 p.m.
The offices of the National Association, including a Library
and Reading Room, are at 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, entrance in Wobum-street. Friends wishing to join the
Association, or local societies wishing to become allied, are
requested to communicate with the Resident Secretary, Miss
Kislingbury, of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules,
and other information, can be had on application.
PUBLIC MEETINGS.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &e.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m. |
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance u,t
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only. 
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’:i
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
SOUTH LONDON ASSOCIATION OF
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. List of meetings
during the week: Sunday, Trance or other Address at Seven ;
Monday, Discussion and . Conversational Meeting at Eight;
Tuesday, Developing Circle, at Eight, members only; Thurs¬
day, Seance at Eight, members only; F/iday, Seance at Eighl,
members only; Saturday, Seance at Eight, non-members, 3d
Members Is. per quarter, and 2d. on attending a Seance. Any
further information can be obtained at the rooms on any
evening. J. Burton, /ton. Secretary.
8T. MATTHEW’S, SPRING GARDENS
(hear Charing-cross station). On the Sundays after
Easter a COURSE OF SERMONS, will he preached by tfco
Rev. Maurice Davies, D.D., on “The Apparitions of Christ
during the Great Forty Days; ” with special reference to their
bearing on the future that awaits us. Subjects—
1. April 23rd.—The Apparitions to the Women. The Nature
of the Resurrection-Body. Woman’s Faith and Love
2. April 30th.—On the Emmaus Road. Man’s Despondency.
The Change in the Risen Body.
3. May 7th.—To the Ten. The Message of Peace to a Broken
Circle.
4. May 14th.—To the Eleven. The Doubter convinced. Tho
Believer- blessed.
5. May 21st.—On the Sacred Beach. Links with the Past,
Loving Provisions for the Future.
6. May 28th.—On the Mount of Ascension. Last Farewells.
Service commences at a.quarter-past Eleven.
  '  S. Flood Jones, M.A., Incumbent.
Price Is. Old., post free.
1%/rARRIAGE LAW INJUSTICE. An ex-
-i-vJL posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Bianey.
Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 3, Bond-street.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by tho
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu'ation is nearly 80,00o, and very littlo
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
MRS. WOODFORDE begs to announce her
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE to 8, Milton-street, Dorset-
aquare (near Baker-street Station), where she will be glad to
welcome, as of old, all friends and visitors. Physical seances
with two first-class mediums, will be held as usual, every Thurs¬
day and Saturday evenings. Usual manifestations—direct
voice, direct writing, and materialisations (if conditions serve)
of the friends of visitors, also a new materialised musical in¬
strument, played (it is said by Blondel) with remarkable skill
in accompaniment of the musical box. Especial invitations
will be issued for the Saturday evenings, and an introduction
from some well-known Spiritualist is requested for the Thurs¬
day evenings. All friends who have been in the habit of
attending Mrs. Woodforde’s seances will always be welcome.
Admission, 5s.
Mrs. Woodfordo is also open to engagements for private
physical seances to be held at her own residence; a few days
previous notice must be given. Names will be received for a
daylight seance to be held shortly. With pleasant rooms
open to her visitors, and every effort made to obtain superiov
manifestations, Mrs. Woodforde hopes to afford those who
will honour her with their presence, some most agreeable and
satisfactory seances.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernard-
villas, Upper Norwood.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 28, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, AVest Brompton, S.W.
'oleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
■Ereritt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, AV.
Gregory, Airs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Gi'osvenor-square, AV.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlll, Balham, S.AY.
Hitchman, AViUiam, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, IsUugton-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, AVimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.AV.
AVason, James, AVason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Yernon-street, Philadelpliia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel AVatson,Memphis, Temiessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeek, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D.. Union Springs, Cayuga Co., Now York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, \V.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Council.
Allied Societies.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, AV. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.AV.
Bassett, AV. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, AV,
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Aranbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, AV.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmunds, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle-
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt. Erzherzog, Alexauder-gasse, 23.
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. 0. Emery, St. Mary-
street, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
sex, N.AV.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
FitzGerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, AV.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, AVest-end, Doddington-grove, Kennlngton-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AV.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.AV.
Mawson, AVm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. AVarwiek-eottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.G.S., 19,Nottingham-place,York-gate,Regent’s
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richai'd, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, GId Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F.j J. House, Woolwich-common.
Snelling,G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mlldmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheatli,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AV.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and3, Altenburg-terrace.Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn AAlttgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rasslm Pacha aBahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Slyria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh,26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Ruasell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,.M,D.,l96,Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A,
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirera
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the Unitea Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.G., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Aiusworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr Q-. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakbrs, Carriage Proprietors, &o
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Art, magic, mundane, sub-mun¬
dane, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and pay¬
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending books to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author’s behalf, does not feel jus'ifled
in sending out each a rare and valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the book sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic, &c.,206, West 38th-
street, New York, America.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Medinmship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seduces at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MRS. MALTBY, Magnetic Healer, 26,
Southampton-row, Holborn, W.O. Mrs. Maltby
receives patients and others wishing to consult her, daily
between the hours of eleven and five.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
1WTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
_A_i Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry's-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consnlt
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON is about to
make a tour in the provinces. Friends or societies
wishing to engage him should address him at once for vacant
dates. Address, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James's House,
Walthamstow, £.
ly/riss LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
-Lv_l- American Somnambuliit, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Homs, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. 6d. Physical
seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings
at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspon¬
dence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
W.O.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in
accordance with patient's means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
Just Published, price 10s. 5d.
THE MECHANISM OF MAN; An Answer
to the Question, “ What am I? ” A Popular Introduc¬
tion to Psychology and Mental Physiology. By Edward W.
Cox, Serjeant-at-Law, President of the Psychological Society
of Great Britain. Vol. IM The Mechanism. Contents—Part 1,
Introductory; Part 2, The Mechanism; Part 3, The Forces
that Move and Direct the Mechanism—Life, Mind, Soul.
London: Longmans and Co.
% cl % [pijogr^s of anit ^l|t([S of jljraftliiaBm.
Vo^ujvie Eiqht. Kumber Seventeen.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
SPIRITUALISM AND ST. PETERSBURG UNIVERSITY.
It will be seen from M. Aksakof’s article in another column |
that the Scientific Committee of St. Petersburg Univer- j
sity has walked in the footsteps of preceding committees of |
the kind, by breaking faith with Spiritualists, after obtaining !
phenomena which it never expected to see, and is afraid to i
certify. As we pointed out just before the St. Petersburg i
investigation began, the Harvard University professors had I
previously been too cowardly to publish that which they had \)
witnessed, and which they had promised in advance to make | j
known to the world. The Anthropological Institute of Lon- <
don once intended to investigate the phenomena, and just U
as it began, its self-sacrificing founder, Dr. Hunt, went into j |
such a state of fear as to what might be the consequences to j j
the society if it should have to certify to the reality of the un- |
popular manifestations, that, according to the words of his ||
friend Mr. H. G. Atkinson, it was quite pitiable to see him. j<
Individual scientific professors at home and abroad have 11
sometimes carelessly attended one or two seances, and |)
detected no imposture, but have admitted—honourable ! \
gentlemen as they are—that they thereat practised some jj
themselves, and deceived the sitters. Hence, when I j
the St. Petersburg Committee was first formed, we sug- |
gested in these columns that no facilities for investigation !
should be given it without first parading in unsparing |
detail before its eyes all the sins of its predecessors, and |j
then asking its members what guarantee they would give | j
that they would behave better; moreover, inviting them
to explain what possible good would come to Spirit- jj
ualism supposing they did certify the phenomena to j
be real. All past experience tends to show that j
any committee which may be so honest would be jj
scouted by its scientific brethren; its members would j I
be said to have gone mad, and Spiritualists consequently j
would be no better off for any trouble they might take jj
in affording facilities for investigation to persons voted to be j j
as mad as March hares. The sooner Spiritualists leave off j
caring so much for the opinion of others, or for inviting jj
incompetent scientific societies and individual physicists to | j
sit in judgment upon themselves and their mediums, the jj
better will it be for Spiritualism, for their own dignity, and j
for their own peace of mind. The same energy and money j j
would be much better expended in other directions; not in j j
proselytising, not in trying to drag people in the movement j j
who have no natural interest in it, but in improving the jj
Spiritual movement from within, by taking every necessary j j
step to interiorally improve its religious and scientific jj
standing. M. Alexandre Aksakof has no doubt incurred a j j
vast amount of anxiety and expense during the past few jj
months in presenting great truths to people who were I
altogether unworthy of them, apd if the result is temporarily j
disappointing to him, and not particularly good for the im- j
provement of the aspect in which Spiritualism is popularly j j
presented to the ignorant, at all events another precedent j {
has been established, warning us what steps to take in rela- j <
tion to the scientific world in the future. First of all the exist- j j
ence of the said world should be ignored; then when any j j
section of it applies for facilities for investigation, the mis- j <
deeds of its predecessors should be paraded before it in the j
amplest detail in writing, and it should be called upon to j j
explain what possible good Spiritualists will derive by put- j j
ting themselves to inconvenience to comply with its demands, j j
The Emperor of Russia is far more of a man and a gentle- ij
man than the professors (M. Butlerof and M. Wagner ex- jj
cepted) at St. Petersburg University, for after seeing spirit- j j
hands he has not been afraid to own it, whilst the poor jj
professors in their cowardice are committing historical suicide j j
from their fear to record the vagaries of a poor little table. [j.
APRIL 28th, 1876.
THE ATTEMPTED INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUAL
PHENOMENA AT ST. PETERSBURG.*
BY THE HON. ALEXANDRE AKSAKOF.
On the 11th January the sittings of the committee ap¬
pointed by St. Petersburg University, were resumed, through
the good offices of a lady who is possessed of remarkable
medial gifts, and who kindly consented to assist us in our
laborious task. Though she is not a professional medium,
and occupies an independent social position, she willingly
yielded to our request, in consideration of the scientific
character of the investigation undertaken by the committee.
With this medium we held four sittings, in the presence
of the committee. The manifestations began at once ; raps
of remarkable strength were heard on the floor and on the
table, and the table was raised several times in the air.
What was thereupon the conduct of the committee ?
1. The witnesses on the part of the mediums, Professors
Butlerof and Wagner, and myself, were not allowed to
assist in drawing up the reports; these were made by the
committee alone, contrary to the resolution passed on the
9th May, which provided that after every sitting a report
should be framed by the members of the committee, and by
the witnesses on the part of the medium.
2. The reports of the committee were both incorrect and
insufficient, with a remarkable absence of exactness or ful¬
ness of detail. Some of the descriptions do not resemble at
all what took place, and many of the phenomena are passed
over in silence. For example, while the raps were being
made on the table, and were sensibly felt by the hands upon
it, one member of the committee placed himself under the
table, and was witness that no one was rapping on the feet
of the table. In the report this crucial experiment is passed
over in complete silence. We could not have signed such
reports as these without a protest.
3. Besides this, several members of the committee, who
all signed the protocol—notably M. Mendelejef—in order
that the public might not believe that these phenomena were
of a spiritual nature, considered it their duty to follow up
the reports by individual explanations, in which they endea¬
vour to prove that the raps and levitation of the table are
produced by the skill of the medium, asserting, without any
evidence, that the whole thing was deception. For instance,
M. Mendelejef, in his personal explanation at the close of
the second report, says,—u The medium proposed to sit with¬
out her boots ; but as I do not believe that the raps are
produced by the heels of her boots, I consider this experi¬
ment not only as not convincing, but as proposed with the
view of making the deception still more perfect.” This, in
ordinary language, would be called a libel.
4. In the face of the manifestations, which increased in
intensity, and of the impossibility of detecting and exposing
imposture, the committee had no alternative but to admit
the difficulty, or to resort to the use of apparatus. After
the first sitting with this medium, it was resolved to intro¬
duce apparatus, which the committee was to procure and
arrange, and after the third sitting to proceed at once to
experiment with it; that is to say, the committee refused to
study the phenomena under the present known conditions,
and wanted to impose conditions of its own—unknown and
doubtful conditions—in presence of which it was more than
likely that the phenomena would not occur at all.
5. And lastly, to debar us from the possibility of annoy¬
ing the committee by introducing another and more powerful
medium, the committee hastened, quite contrary to what I
was informed in November, 1875, to decree that the promised
forty seances should not in any case extend beyond the 1st
May, 1876 !
* Translated from au advance proof of an article in Psychische Studien
(Leipzig).
194
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 28,1876.
In the face of all this, it became quite clear that the com¬
mittee had some other end in view than to confirm or refute
in an impartial manner the testimony of other men of
science; it became clear that its only object was to condemn
this testimony—the fruit of long and conscientious research
—as no other than mental aberration on the one side, and as
deception on the other.
With such a committee it was impossible to work further.
We therefore dissolved the investigation after the fourth
sitting, and on the 4th March Professors Butlerof and
Wagner and myself informed the committee that all further
participation on our part was both useless and impossible.
The details of this edifying case will later be made public;
at present the committee’s reports are kept private, although
their publication is promised, and even the witnesses on the
part of the medium are not allowed to take or receive copies
of the same!
EXTRAORDINARY PSYCHOLOGICAL POWERS.
There is in the United States a Mr. Brown, who calls
himself a thought-reader, and whose powers have been well
tested by different literary and scientific men, so as to place
their reality beyond doubt. Descriptions of his method of action
have been published in past numbers of The Spiritualist.
An inquirer hides an object in a distant room, after which he
returns to the room in company with Mr. Brown, who holds
his hand, and who, after a few moments’ delay, leads him
unerringly to the place where he had concealed the article.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal of April 8th contains a
more remarkable narrative by far, about the powers of a Mr.
Blake; the article is quoted from the San Francisco Chronicle,
and Spiritualists on the other side of the water would do well
to inquire into the authenticity of the whole story, since an
investigation of the alleged powers might throw some light
upon Spiritual phenomena. The narrative appears to us to
be a bond fide description of real occurrences, because every
point therein can be paralleled in Spiritualistic manifesta¬
tions, including the carriage of solid objects from place to
place, after they have been within the influence of a medium.
In the following narrative there is no restoration of the piece of
card which had been burnt. No such manifestation is preva¬
lent among modern manifestations, but Dr. Dee, the astrologer
of the days of Queen Elizabeth, possessed a fine medium in
the person of Kelley, and became so nervous about .the
wonderful results he obtained, that at last he threw his
“ conjuring books,” as they were called—but u record books,”
as they really were—into the fire, yet, to his utter astonish¬
ment, the spirits shortly afterwards returned them to him
in an uninj ured state. Something in a measure resembling
this w'as witnessed by Mr. Crookes, Mrs. Ross-Church, Mr.
Tapp, Mr. Harrison, and others, in a good light, at one of
the seances with Miss Cook, where the spirit Katie cut many
large pieces out of her white robe close under the eyes of
several critical spectators, and in two or three seconds the
garment was whole as before. The closest examination,
made by her permission on the spot, by drawing the garment
over the hand inch by inch, in a good light, showed no rent
or seam of any kind. The pieces cut out are still in the
possession of the observers, and are common-looking stuff.
Perhaps an explanation of such almost miraculous facts may
hereafter be found in the speculation which we now advance,
that what is called “ common matter” consists merely of
superficial surface phenomena, and that those who can control
the underlying forces governing the same have little diffi¬
culty in preserving the greater part of the invisible reality,
to which they afterwards restore the more outward and
superficial conditions which render the substance cognisable
by our senses, and by chemists and physicists.
! j The following is the narrative from the San Francisco
<j Chronicle:—
(! Mr. B. F. Blake, who has excited such widespread attention in
)j the East, and obtained the endorsement of many there whose
reputations are national, gave his second complimentary
(1 exhibition on this coast at the Grand Central Hotel, in Oak-
land, on Friday evening last. The exhibition was given at
)j the solicitation of friends, and the audience was composed of
(j about sixty of the leading ladies and gentlemen of Oakland,
)j able to critically view all that was done, and determine
{\ whether Mr. Blake’s claim, that he operated solely by mind
power, was sustained by what was done during the evening.
>| At eight o’clock the entertainment began with a simple
\\ instance of mind-reading. A pack of ordinary playing cards
was passed around for the examination of the audience, and
)| several of them selected cards, taking sure care that Mr.
|; Blake did not see the card selected. The latter then went to
(i one after another, and looking them steadily in the eye for a
h few seconds, named correctly the card drawn. One gentle-
man very properly suggested that as the cards were taken
}\ from Mr. Blake’s hand he might have forced them on those
j! who selected, after the manner of tricksters. Mr. Blake
(j stated that he had expected something of the sort, and there-
?j fore used, instead of playing cards, a pack of fifty-two per-
! fectly white Bristol-board cards, on which were written
j quotations from different authors. These he allowed to lie
j flat in one hand, and, turning his head away, allowed any
!! one to select one. Acting precisely as before, he looked each
j| person in’the eye for a few seconds, and then repeated the
•! quotation they had a moment before read. He also repeated
11 the experiment with playing cards, letting them lie flat in
[| his hand when one was chosen, so that forcing them was
|| impossible. The first convictions then dawned upon the
11 audience that it was done by no trickery, and as Mr. Blake
[| utterly disclaimed all supernatural power, and claimed to act
j by natural laws, they were forced to the conclusion that some
communion between minds brought about the result.
Passing from this, Mr. Blake began to show what he
| called “ Illusions,” stating that they were much simpler than
what had preceded, though to the audience they seemed far
| more inexplicable. Four pieces of ordinary notepaper were
shown and passed around for inspection. They were of the
thinnest texture, of such thinness that a double fold was
impossible. A thin slip of notepaper was also shown, held
| up to the light, and examined by all who chose, to show that
| there was no writing on it, and then enclosed in the folds of
| paper, one after another, each fold being smaller in size than
| the succeeding. Mr. Blake then asked some one to step for-
| ward, and a well-known gentleman volunteered. He was
directed to mention any author he chose. He mentioned
| Shakespeare. Mr. Blake then directed him to place his
hand on the fold of paper, and the two looked squarely in
each other’s eyes. In a very short time Mr. Blake quoted
from Shakespeare, and declared that the quotation he had
| just recited would be found on the slip of paper in the
packet. This was unfolded by the gentleman incredulously,
only to find, however, that the quotation from the author he
| himself had suggested was written on the slip. Amid
great astonishment this was passed round among the audi-
| ence, and each one saw for himself the written quotation.
Another gentleman was catted for, and obtained from the
audience, quite as incredulous as his predecessor, and quite
as determined to detect the trick, if such there might be
I He therefore, by Mr. Blake’s direction, wrapped up the slip
! containing the quotation from Shakespeare in the folds of
| paper, placed his hand upon it, and looked Mr. Blake
intently in the eye. He was then asked to mention an
| author. He mentioned Byron. Mr. Blake immediately
I quoted from Byron, and told the gentleman to unwrap the
paper as delicately as possible, and he would find on the
slip, in place of the other, the quotation from Byron.
He unfolded it and found, just as Mr. Blake had said, on the
identical slip of paper, the quotation which had just been
I repeated.
Next on the programme was i( Mind-Reading” by numbers,
I the numbers being written from one to fifty-one, on perfectly
white cards, and selected at will without the operator’s see-
| ing them. By looking the persons one after another in the
April 28, 1876.
THE SPIEITUALIST. 195
eye, Mr. Blake was able to tell what numbers they had
selected. As this experiment was similar to the first, little
need be said of it. Following this came another so-called
illusion, which made the whole audience lose faith in their
visual organs. Two gentlemen and two ladies stood up in
front of the table. An ordinary business card was taken by
Mr. Blake and torn in two. One half was thrown in the
fire and the other half given to the first of the four persons,
who tore it in two parts. It was then passed to the next,
who tore it in four parts ; then to the next, who tore again,
making eight parts, and then to the last, who, with some
difficulty, owing to the smallness of the pieces, tore again,
making sixteen parts. Two or three of these pieces were
retained, and the rest wrapped up in one of the thin pieces
of paper before spoken of, they being first thoroughly
examined. One gentleman then placed his hand upon it,
and after looking Mr. Blake in the eye for a second or two,
the latter requested him to unroll it. This was done, and
the half-card was found as it originally was, with the excep¬
tion of the two small pieces, which had been retained.
These were fitted to the places, one in the centre of the
card, and one in the corner, and found to match perfectly.
The feelings of the audience, especially those who had torn
the card, may be imagined.
After this illusion came what was called the safe mystery,
which exceeded in inexplicability all that had preceded.
Sleight-of-hand was simply impossible, as will be seen from
the description, and nothing could have more fully satisfied
the audience of Mr. Blake’s just claim of mind-power than
did the way in which it was done. Two of the folds of note-
paper were given out for inspection. A piece of coin, the
only one of the kind in the room, was then marked and
wrapped up by one of the gentlemen in one of the folds.
A piece of card was next wrapped up by another gentleman
in the other fold of paper. These were taken by Mr. Blake,
held in his hand a moment, and then passed back to the two
gentlemen. Each of these then unwrapped his packet and
found the coin in the one and the piece of card, and in the
other the coin, just as they were originally placed. The
gentleman having the coin then wrapped it up again,
without Mr. Blake’s touching it at any time, placed the
packet within the leaves of a book, wrapped the book up
in brown paper, and sealed it with sealing wax, using
as an extra precaution a seal ring to mark the seal.
This package was then taken down stairs by the gentleman
who had wrapped it up, accompanied by two others,
and locked in the safe of the hotel. While they were
gone the gentlemen who had the card looked at it, marked it,
in order that it might be recognised, and exhibited it to the
audience. He then wrapped it up in the folds of note paper,
Mr. Blake not touching it at any time, and placing his hand
upon it, looked Mr. Blake in the eye as before. In a moment
or two Mr. Blake turned to the audience, and informed them
that the coin and the card had changed places. The gentle¬
man at the table then unwrapped the card as he thought,
but found in its place the coin, which there was no possibility
of mistaking. The committee then went down stairs, un¬
locked the safe, and brought up the sealed package. The
seals were broken, the paper taken from the book and un¬
wrapped, and where every person in the room had seen the
coin placed and sealed up, the marked card was found.
Following the safe illusion, Mr. Blake gave example of
mind-reading in the case of mining stocks, the name of the
stocks being on cards, and also read by touch as well as by
sight, in the former case determining the stock of which the
person was thinking by merely taking hold of his finger.
He also gave another illusion with coin. Seven or eight
pieces, quarters and five-cent pieces, were wrapped up by a
gentleman, Mr. Blake standing across the room. The package
was knocked on the table, and the sound readily distin¬
guished. Mr. Blake first looked at the gentleman a few
moments, and then told him to feel for the coin. He felt
for it in the thin folds of paper, but could feel nothing. He
knocked it on the table, but no sound was heard, and when
he unwrapped it the coin had entirely disappeared, and there
was nothing but the pieces of notepaper, which were examined
thoroughly. The gentleman then wrapped it up again,
nothing being in it, and handed it to Mr. Blake, who imme¬
diately knocked it on the table. The sound of metal was
|l| heard distinctly, and upon unrolling it all the coins, which
u had been marked, were found.
|)| The exhibition closed with the most wonderful performance
jjj of all, that of mental telegraphy. A gentleman was selected
m by Mr. Blake from the audience, and conducted by the com-
j| mittee to another part of the house. Those in the parlour
|)j then wrote a lot of sentences, from among which one in
j(j Latin, Hoc est corpus meum, was selected for the experi-
m ment. Mr. Blake took a card from a lady in the audience,
m tore it in two, gave one half to a gentleman near, and the
| | other to one of the committee who had taken the gentleman
jjj out of the room. This was taken to the latter, and he was
m left alone for a few moments. In a short time the card was
R brought back by the committee with Hoc est corpus meum
jjj written on it. Mr. Blake had no idea where the gentleman
j|j was to be taken, and the only earthly means of communi-
Rj cation was the half of a card furnished by one of the
jjj audience, torn in two by Mr. Blake, and immediately given
| j to the committee. By means of it the sense of sight was
j | brought into question and the result arrived at more easily
j | than it could otherwise be. The audience were, with one or
j j two exceptions, total strangers to Mr. Blake, and collusion
j j was simply impossible. The audience were all critical, and
jjj some hypercritical, which, however, was due to the general
j| desire to ascertain if what was claimed was really due to
j(| mind-power, and that being the case, to close all loopholes
jjj of doubt. These additional tests only added therefore to the
jjj value of the performance. Mr. Blake’s powers are entirely
j j the result of study and practice.
CRUCIFIXION AND RESURRECTION. —SELF-SACRIFICE
AND REGENERATION.
AN EASTER MESSAGE GIVEN TO M.A., OXON.
\_Easter being a time at which I am usually relieved from
j j routine-work^ I have found that the automatic writing is more
j)i regular then: and the strange fondness of the communicating
jjj Intelligences for anniversaries and festivals supplies a regular
jjj message on Easter Day. In the course of the “ Spirit Teach-
\ j) | ings ’ ’ two such messages have been printed: and I now print the
j j last^given on April 16^, 1876, one very striking one given last
jij year being reserved for its due place.
In the question put by me, I alluded to the spiritual symbolism
jjj between the Death and Resurrection) and suggested that it
j j typified death as the portal of life; and spiritual death as
jj| the road to spiritual regeneration^
Refer to what we wrote for you on the last festival of
jjj Easter. The symbolism to which you allude was then
jjj explained: viz., resurrection from matter, not of matter.
j|j We explained the spiritual significance of the various festivals
jjj which the Christian Church has always kept. Refer.
[/ found on looking back to last year's records, that a long
jjj message had been written, in the course of which the Church
jjj festivals had been symbolically explained: Christmas, self-
jjj denial; Epiphany, spiritual enlightenment; Lent, spiritual
jjj conflict; Good Friday, triumphant love; Easter, the risen
hi life; Whitsuntide, the outpoured spirit; Ascension, the com-
jjj pletedwork.~\
So it is. The whole course of the typical life of the
jjj Pattern Man is emblematic of the progressive development
jjj of the life begun on earth, completed in heaven (so to use
jjj your terms), born of self-denial, and culminating in spiritual
j^j ascension. In the Christ-life, as in a story, man may read
j j the tale of the progress of spirit from incarnation to enfran-
j j chisement. Thirty years and more of angelic preparation
Ijj fitted the Christ for His mission : three short years sufficed to
jjj discharge so much of it as man could bear. So man’s
jjj spirit in its development progresses through the course
Rj covered by the festivals of the Christian Church, from the
jjj birth of self-denial to the festival of the completed life.
II)j Born in self-denial, progressing through self-sacrifice, deve-
j loped by perpetual struggles with the adversaries, the anta-
j gonistic principles which must be conquered in daily life, in
I self, and in the foes, it dies at length to the external, and
rises on its Easter morn from the grave of matter, and lives
henceforth, baptized by the outpoured spirit of Pentecost, a
new and risen life, till it ascends to the place prepared for it
jvl by the tendency of its earth life.
This is the spirit’s progress, and it maybe said to be a
196
THE SElHlTtiALIST.
April 28, 1876,
process of regeneration, shortly typified by crucifixion and |
resurrection. The old man dies, the new man rises from his j
grave. The old man, with his lusts, is crucified; the new i
man is raised up to live a spiritual and holy life. It is rege- j
neration of spirit that is the culmination of bodily life, and i
the process is crucifixion of self, a daily death, as Paul was i
wont to say. In the life of spiritual progress there should |
be no stagnation, no paralysis. It should be a growth and t!
a daily adaptation of knowledge; a mortification of the i
earthy and sensual, and a corresponding development of the I
spiritual and heavenly. In other words it is a growth in i
grace, and in the knowledge of the Christ; the purest type |
of human life presented to your imitation. It is a clearing !
away of the material, and a development of the spiritual; a j
purging as by fire, the fire of a consuming zeal; of a life-long |
struggle with self and all that self includes; of an ever- i
widening grasp of Divine truth.
By no other means can spirit be purified. The furnace |
is one of self-sacrifice: the process the same for all. Only !
in some souls wherein the Divine flame burns more brightly I
the process is rapid and concentrated, while in duller natures |
the fire smoulders, and vast cycles of purgation are required, i
Blessed are they who can crush out the earthy, and welcome I
the fiery trial which shall purge away the dross. To such i
progress is rapid and purification sure.
T Fes: the struggle is severe, and one hardly knows what to !
fight against.']
Begin within. The ancients were wise in their description |
of the enemies. A spirit has three foes—itself; the external |
world around it; and the spiritual foes that beset the upward j
path. These are described as the World, the Flesh, and the i
Devil.
Begin with self—the Flesh. Conquer it, so that you are |
no longer slave to appetite, to passion, to ambition: so that i
self can be abnegated, and the spirit can come forth from : i
its hermit-cell, and live, and breathe, and act in the free | |
scope of the universal brotherhood. This is the first step, j j
Self must be crucified: and from the grave where it lies i(|
buried will rise the enfranchised spirit untrammelled, free j ||
from material clogs. l||
This done, the soul will have no difficulty in despising |(|
the things which are seen, and in aspiring to the eternal jjj
verities. It will have learned that truth is to be found in I I
them alone; and, seeing this, it will maintain a deathless jjj
struggle with all external and material forms, as being only i |
adumbrations of the true, too often deceptive and unsatisfy- j I
ing. Matter will be regarded as the husk to be stripped off I j
before the kernel of truth can be got at. Matter will be I j
the deceptive, fleeting phantasm behind which is veiled the j j
truth on which none but the purged eye may gaze. Such a |jj
soul, so taught, will not need to be told to avoid the external I ;
in all things, and to penetrate through the husk to the truth i i
that lies below. It will have learned that the surface- jjj
meanings of things are for the babes in spiritual know- j/j
ledge, and that beneath an obvious fact lurks a spiritual jjj
symbolic truth. Such a soul will see the correspondences of jjj
matter and spirit, and will recognise in the external only | jl
the rude signs by which is conveyed to the child so much of jjj
spiritual truth as its finite mind can grasp. To it, in veriest jjj
truth, to die has been gain. The life that it leads is a life of jjj
the spirit; for flesh has been conquered, and the world has jjj
ceased to charm.
But in proportion as the spiritual perceptions are quick- jjj
ened, so do the spiritual foes come into more prominent view, j j
The adversaries, who are the sworn enemies of spiritual pro- jjj
gress and enlightenment, will beset the aspirant’s path, and jjj
remain for him a ceaseless cause of conflict throughout his Ijj
career of probation. By degrees they will be vanquished by jjj
the faithful soul that presses on, but conflict with them will j jl
never wholly cease during the probation-life, for it is the ijj
means whereby the higher faculties are developed, and the jjl
steps by which entrance is won to the higher spheres of ijj
bliss. ' .ijj
This, briefly, is the life of the progressive spirit—self- jjj
sacrifice, whereby self is crucified; self-denial, whereby the ijj
world is vanquished; and spiritual conflict, whereby the jjj
adversaries are beaten back. In it is no stagnation; even no jjj
rest; no finality. It is a daily death, out oj which springs the jjj
erisn life. It is a constant fight, out of which is won per- i'i
petual progress. It is the quenchless struggle of the light
that is within to shine out more and more into the radiance
of the perfect day. And thus only it is that what you call
heaven is won.
[Sic itur id astra. That is very much the central idea of
Christianity, and also of Buddhism, as well as of the old
occultists. Christ's sayings teem with the notion which ani¬
mated his own life. The great difficulty is to carry out such
an abstract system into operation in the world.]
Therein is the struggle, as he himself said, to be in the
world, but not of the world. The high ideal is well nigh
impossible for those who have upon them the care of daily
toil. Hence it is that we have striven to withdraw you, so
far as we can, from the objective side of spirit-intercourse,
foreseeing that it would be hurtful to you. You must strive
to rise above the material, and to leave it behind. Such
intercourse is fitted only for those who can be secluded from
the cares of daily life.
[ J said long ago that 1 believed mediumship, f carried out,
to be incompatible with daily work in the world. The very
development of sensitiveness, which grows so rapidly, is quite
enough to unfit the medium for rude contact with the world:
or, at any rate, to encourage in him moods, and draw round
him influences, which make him unfit for work.]
To a great extent it is so: and therefore, we have withdrawn
the more material side of mediumship from you, and that
should develope the spiritual, in which no such danger lurks.
At any rate, you may trust us to do what is wise. The
danger is when they who guide are unfit for the work. It
is then that risk becomes serious. Be content; your course
is clear. Only remember that now is the hour and power of
darkness. Be patient. + Imperator.
THE LABOURS OF ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
BY J. N. T. MARTHEZE.
Allow me briefly to point out to your readers a touching
letter from Mrs. Mary J. Davis, the wife of the celebrated
medium and author, Andrew Jackson Davis, in last number
of the Banner of Light. Mr. Colby having proposed to
organise a testimonial fund on Mr. A. J. Davis’s behalf, Mrs.
Davis writes in the name of her husband to request Mr.
Colby to withdraw his benevolent proposition, leaving the
generous gifts of Spiritualists to other needy and worthy
persons. Now every Spiritualist in the world will agree
with me that Mr. Andrew Jackson Davis stands foremost
in the movement of Spiritualism as a medium, and his
writings, which will for ever be standard works, form with the
publications by Judge Edmonds, the foundation stones of
any Spiritualist library.
How noble this abnegation at a moment when testimonials
are raised in favour of editors, of mediums of much less
importance, and of Spiritualists who, having upheld the
movement, have but upheld their belief and opinions against
the public. This I consider to be nothing but the duty of
any honourable and conscientious man, for, as the old French
motto says, “ Fais ce que dois, advienne que pourra.” Mr.
A. J. Davis’s mediumship has been the most wonderful and
influential we have seen since the advent of modern Spirit¬
ualism, and it is to be hoped that American Spiritualists,
and in general the Spiritualists of the world, will one day,
not far off, remember it, and offer to him a token of esteem
in a substantial or honorary way, or perhaps both.
By the way, I wish to draw a comparison between Mr. A.
J. Davis and Spinosa, the great philosopher (and perhaps
medium as well), both reformers, but at different times and
with different missions, and both preferring their simple
way of living to honours and gifts from the public. Great
reformers—I say real reformers—are always the same.
They do their work, being impressed to do so, without heed¬
ing human praise or assistance. Glorious mission, and only
understood by a few thinkers.
20, Palmeira-squaro, Brighton.
Passed to Spirit Life.—Archibald Inglis, of the Bridge of Allan,
April 7 th, 1870.
The usual monthly soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists
will be held on Wednesday evening next, at 38, Great Russell-street.
Doors open at 0.30 p.m.
April 28, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
197
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The following circular of the National Association of
Spiritualists has just been issued to all the members of that
body:—
April loth, 1876.
The next annual general meeting of this Association will be held at
38, G-reat Russell-street, on Tuesday evening, May 23rd, at 6.30, for
the election of twenty-six members of Council, in the place of the same
number of members going out of office by rotation, and for other busi¬
ness, as provided for by Rule IX.
The following is a list of the retiring members, all of whom are
eligible for re-election, with the exception of those against whose names
an * is placed.
1. Mrs. Maltby.
2. OAPT. JAMBS.
3. Mr. A. Gamer.
4. Miss H. Witham.
5. Mr. A. Joy.
G. Mr. J. Freeman.
7. Mrs. Honywood.
8. Mr. N. F. Dawe.
9. Mrs. makdougam Gregory.
*10. Mr. J. Shepherd,
*11. Mr. 0. T. Pearce.
12. Mr. Desmond Fitz-Geram.
*13. Mr. B. Gale.
14. Mr. Martin E. Smith.
15. Mrs. Wiseman.
16. Mr. Geo. King.
17. Mr. H. D. Jencken.
*18. Mr. G. H. Dawson.
19. Sir 0. Isham, Bart.
20. Mr. H. Wedgwood.
21. Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Geram.
22. Bey. T. OomeY.
23. Mr. W. E. Bassett.
24. Mr. A. 0. Swinton.
25. Mr. Geo. Hudson.
*26. Mr. G. F. Sneming.
Every member of the Association not included in the above list is also
eligible for election to the Council, provided that he has paid all sub¬
scriptions due from him, and that his nomination is in the hands of the
secretary, duly signed by one or more members, fourteen days before the
time of holding the annual general meeting. A list of all the members
will be exhibited in the rooms of the Association until the time for
sending in nominations shall have expired.
In case more persons, duly qualified, shall be nominated for election
than are required to fill up the vacancies, such persons will be declared
elected as shall obtain the highest number of votes.
Members are requested to note that no member is entitled to vote,
either personally or by proxy, until he shall have paid all subscriptions
which have become due. Emily Kislingbuby, Sec.
At present there are seventy members on the Council of
the National Association, including the retiring workers in
the above list. The rules provide that one hundred members
of Council and no more may be elected, and according to
the present programme thirty places will be left unfilled at
the close of the coming election. On examination of the
foregoing list, it will be seen that the one-third who now go
out of office are for the most part invaluable public workers
in the movement, who cannot be spared; consequently the
private members of the Association, after re-electing most
of these, as in duty and inclination bound, will only have
power to infuse new blood into the Council by the election
of, say, some five or eight entirely new members, yet the
Council lias power at any time afterwards, to infuse new
blood to the extent of no less than thirty. This accidental
circumstance gives the Council a much greater power than
the whole body of members, of deciding of whom its com¬
ponent parts shall consist during the coming year ; and
although it is not a power intentionally grasped or likely to
be abused, it is not well—except that the experience may
serve to protect from future dangers—that these unforeseen
circumstances should give the Council so much influence,
and the great body of the members so little. Perhaps it
would be well if some resolution were passed at the general
meeting, requiring the Council, in appointing additional
members during the coming year, to give priority to twenty-
seven out of the thirty, who after the full number of seventy,
is made up next month shall stand next in order in the
matter of the number of votes given them at the general
election, and that the Council shall have no power to make
any new members till the twenty-seven selected by the
Association shall have been appointed. As matters stand
at present, there is no question that some Spiritualists who
are thought to be good workers cannot be elected by private
members of the Association who wish to vote for them,
because the said voters would have to strike off the list some
equally good workers in the past, whom they do not wish to
lose.
According to the constitution of the Association, any
member who wishes to bring forward any motion at the
general meeting, must give three weeks’ clear notice before¬
hand in writing to the Council, consequently any such
notices should be sent in without delay.
In the younger days of an organisation there is always
some little confusion, frequent retracing of small errors,
sudden adoption of fresh modes of action dictated by expe¬
rience, before settling down to steady work, and it is well
| that those who have the burden of such responsible duties
| should not in times of a minimum of weakness and a maxi-
| mum of responsibility, be too closely criticised. But when
| once the machine is fairly at work, it ought, as an item of
| sacred duty, to be keenly examined from all points of view,
I and as in course of years well-founded organisations obtain
I' | very great power, it is all the more the duty of individual
| members to see that in their younger days all the then pliable
' j parts are constructed upon the best principles. Hence the
II members of the National Association of Spiritualists cannot
11 do better work for the cause they have at heart, than during
11 the coming week to study the rules which have been framed
11 with so much care and thought, and in the main are excel-
11 lent, to see whether they are as perfect as they might be
I made, and that every private member of the Association is
| j thoroughly protected in his liberties and his rights. Acci-
II dental circumstances, such as have just been pointed out,
' | give the great body of members the power of infusing, with-
[ | out disagreeable alternatives, new blood into the Council to
> | the extent of but five or ten members, whilst the Council
11 itself possesses the power of infusing new blood to the extent
11 of thirty new members; this is a point which should be
11 examined.
It may so happen that once or twice in a year there may
[ | be some worker whom it would be of great advantage to the
11 movement to place upon the Council, hence it would seem to
! | be well that the Council should have a very limited power to
’ I increase itself; discretion and authority in this direction
| j should however be limited to the appointment of two or three
! j new members in a year, and not more.
Another point requires examination by the members, and
•! that is the system of election by proxy. After the forth-
!! coming nominations are over, each member, instead of being
|! able to mark the names of his selected representatives, and to
»| send the list by post to the Council, is, under the present
11 regulations, obliged to take the trouble to seek some friend
[ | in London through whom he may present his votes by proxy ;
i this is a matter, to say the least, of inconvenience and delay,
! and if the said representative, after being captured, chances
|! to be unwell on the day of meeting, or to have married a wife
| and to be unable to attend, the votes will never reach their
| destination. A further objection to the proxy system is that,
j! as commercial circles know very well, it tends to concentrate
11 power in the hands of the governing body, rather than in
i those of private members.
A better time than the present could not be found for the
(| close examination of the constitution and working of the
! National Association of Spiritualists by its individual mem-
i bers. The Council has done its best to frame a good consti-
| j tution, and wishes to have one perfect at all points, so will
(| be obliged to all members who will show where the present
! regulations are not so perfect as they might be made.
An objection may be made that a Council of one hundred
| members is too large, but it gives safety from cliques ; the
| present Council of seventy only produces an attendance of
I from twelve to twenty-four members at each meeting, and if
(I these should ever become cliquish or arbitrary in their actions,
|S any outcry will bring in the observing and ordinarily
i non-working members of the Council to put matters
(I straight, so that all through the year there will be plenty
11 of spare voting power in the Council itself to meet the
)! necessities of occasional emergencies. The appointment of
(! a small body of executive workers would be the adoption of
) \ a system worse for the public interests than that at present
> j in action.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO MRS. TAPPAN.
The following is an extract from a letter from Mrs. Tappan
< to Mrs. Strawbridge, dated San Francisco, March 13, 1876 :
K| “I have this day opened the box containing the illu-
! i minated address from England, and for the first time see it.
j It is exquisite, chaste, elegant, and pleases me beyond
K | measure. As a work of art, it is beautiful and perfect; as a
!)j token it is beyond all value. Please convey this to Mr.
! | Coleman, who was so earnest in its production, and who will
K; wish to know how I like it as a matter of art, for he knows
|m already my appreciation of the gift itself.”
April 28, 1876.
THE SPIUITuALIST.
198
JOCULAR AND RELIGIOUS SEANCES.
BY CROMWELL F. VARLEY, F.R.S.
I regret to see that Dr. Gully has mistaken my remarks
upon what are called joking seances. As he was not present
at the meeting, I ask him to re-read your report of what I
did say, for I cannot understand how he supposes I approve
of them; I do not. The purport of my remarks was this :
I understood Mr. Dawson Rogers to say that he considered
joking at seances an almost wicked thing, and that a
religious or semi-religious feeling and kind of phenomena
only should be permitted. What I endeavoured to impress
upon the meeting was that in my opinion Spiritualists ought
to have the broadest of views. I did not wish to imply that
Mr. Rogers was wrong, but that because others indulged in
jokes it was not for us to say unto them, u Verily, we are
more holy than you.” When the disciples of Jesus saw
others casting out devils they forbade them to do so, think¬
ing probably that their Master was the only authorised per¬
son to perform miracles. What did Jesus do upon hearing
what his disciples, or rather apostles, had done ? He
instantly replied “ Forbid them not” and that was the pur¬
port of my remarks.
I added that it was wrong—in my opinion—to call the
jocular spirits *| Evil Spirits it was illiberal at least so to
do. I added that the line of demarcation between what was
reputed to be good and evil varied in different countries, and
I further added that it was my firm conviction that were our
intelligences so enlarged as to approach to or equal that of
the Deity, we should then perceive that there was no such
thing as evil, any more than there is any such thing as abso¬
lute darkness upon the world; for what we call darkness is
only less light.
When investigating the phenomena of electricity passing
through a very rarefied atmosphere, and when the light pro¬
duced was so feeble that in a darkened room, and at mid¬
night, the eye could detect nothing, I have been able to get
good photographs of the phenomena which were totally
invisible to the eye, because I could expose the sensitive
plate for 40 minutes to the cumulative action of this feeble
light, thus showing that what was otherwise total darkness to
the eye was in reality only light too feeble to stimulate the
retina.
In like manner I endeavoured to impress upon thoughtful
Spiritualists not to import theology into the subject, or all
spiritual organisations would split up into as many and as
varied sections as has unluckily been the case with the teach¬
ings of Jesus. I again ask Dr. Gully to read what I said,
and which is reported very fairly, although not strictly cor¬
rectly in The Spiritualist of April 14, 1876, No. 190.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan sends us the following information relating to
the imprisonment on Saturday last of M. Leymarie, editor of the Revue
Spirite:—
“ I have had the great pain of parting this moraing with M. Leymarie, who
had to surrender himself at two p.m., to go to the prison called llLa Sante.”
When will he come out of it ? He looks pale and ill, but was resigned and
firm. The pupil of his right eye is covered with cataract, and his left eye is
expected (by an eminent specialist who devoted three hours to the examina¬
tion) soon to follow. It is necessary to defer for a while the presentation of
the memorials for his pardon from the United States, England, Belgium, and
Spain. There is much reason to fear that his enemies (that is to say, those of
his doctrine and cause, for he never had another) are far more powerful with
the Government than his friends. The French £< Spirites ” are in general a
poor timid set. Not many of them have dared to sign the memorial.”
It will be remembered that the original prosecution of M. Leymarie
by the police began in such a peculiar way, that even the correspondents
of the London daily papers in their telegrams called attention to the
unusual mode of procedure. The opinion prevails among Parisian
Spiritualists that the attack upon M. Leymarie is primarily due to the
machinations of the Jesuits, so the present imprisonment of one inno¬
cent man will have the good effect of intensifying the feeling in free
countries against secret, or semi-secret, ecclesiastical organisations.
The French Government ought to inquire why their police departed
from their ordinary routine in this matter, and find out whether any
ecclesiastical individuals are interferring with the acts of their execu¬
tive. The popular idea in England has hitherto been that Marshal
MacMahon and the Republic govern France, and not intriguing ec¬
clesiastical personages. The sharp criticism by M. Leymarie of the
rambling pastoral against Spiritualism issued some months ago by the
Archbishop of Toulouse, doubtless tended to irritate the priestly
fraternity.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday evening last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting
of the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-
square, London, Mr. E. W. Cox, serjeant-at-law, presided.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
BLANCHETTE WRITING.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, said that a lady well known
to the Council, had sent a letter to the society on the subject of plan-
chette writing. She stated that some years ago a young lady whose
parents were dead, became her travelling companion on the Continent;
she had a little brother who remained in England; he was young and in¬
dependent, both the children having been left in very good circumstances.
While abroad they accidentally met with a lady who had a planchette,
an instrument at that time unknown to both of them; after they had
seen it at work, they ordered one at Frankfort, where planchettes
seemed to be well known. They tried it often. Under her hand alone
it would only move in curves, and under the hand of her young friend
it would not move a single inch. When, however, both their hands
were placed on it, it went like lightning, writing intelligently, dotting
the i’s and crossing the t’s. By this writing, friends long since dead
gave assurances of love, and warnings of danger. One day, while they
were at Baden, she returned and found her companion sitting at the
planchette with tears in her eyes, for she said she had been waiting a
long time, but it would not move an inch. They then both put their
hands upon it, and her friend asked why it would not move for
her alone, but only for her companion. The answer was “ because she is
a medium; she has become one through mental sufferings.” They then
went for an excursion, and on their return they sat at the planchette
again. The names of several of the relations of the young lady were
given, and they prepared her for some approaching calamity. At last
the planchette said, “ Your brother Charlie is dead.” It further gave
minute details, including names of places ; it told them of a pony, and
of a lane, and how, when some one opened a gate, the pony shied, and
the brother struck his head against a sharp stone. He was carried to
the house of a friend, and died shortly afterwards. After the receipt of
this message it was with difficulty that her young friend could be per¬
suaded not to start for England that night. A telegram was sent instead,
and they were so overcome with grief that they could not sleep, so they
sat up all night. Sometimes they questioned the authenticity of the
message, and the planchette said, “ If you don’t believe it, his spirit will
appear.” It further said that the brother was at the Manor House, Ayles¬
bury, where his uncle was making arrangements for the coroner’s inquest.
It told them to look in the Times of a certain date; they did so, and
found an account of a young gentleman who had been killed in the way
stated, but the name was different, which made them doubt the original
narrative. Soon a telegram came from the brother, saying that he was
all right. They then asked the planchette what it meant by giving
them such cruel messages, and it replied, “ We heard you say that you
wished for some mental suffering to make you a medium, so we gave it
you.” (Laughter.)
Mr. Serjeant Cox remarked that it was all a case of the working of
one half of the brain of each sitter with the knowledge of the other half
of their brains.
ON THE PSYCHOLOGY OF WIT AND HUMOUR.
In the course of his paper Mr. Serjeant Cox said that no two words
in our language were more used and more abused than those which were
its subject, namely, “ Wit and Humour.” They were commonly used
as if the same meaning belonged to both. Towards the close of his
exhaustive paper he drew the following conclusions: 1. That wit and
humour, although intimately allied, are not identical; 2. That wit
consists in unexpected resemblances discovered in things apparently
unlike; 3. That humour consists in unexpected differences discovered
in things apparently like; 4. That the perception of wit and the per¬
ception of humour are distinct mental faculties—many persons have a
keen sense of humour who have little perception of wit, and many
having much wit without a grain of humour; 5. That the law of humour
is a keen sense of the ludicrous. That the ludicrous is a keen sense of
incongruity. That the incongruity that exerts the keen sense of humour
is not incongruity in physical aspect or qualities, but moral incongruity,
either present or suggested; 6. That this sense of incongruity is the
sense of the ridiculous, and is expressed in laughter; 7. That laughter
is peculiar to man, because man alone possesses the sense of moral
incongruity; 8. That the wise purpose of this sense of the ridiculous
which is the basis of humour, is the preservation of moral order,
through fear of the ridicule that always attaches to incongruities and
absurdities in conduct; 9. If this be correct, it follows that ridicule,
although not—as it has been called—the test of truth, is a test of
propriety.
After a short discussion the proceedings closed.
Mrs. Woodfoude has changed her address to 90, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C., where she says that her object is “to provide lady and
gentlemen investigators and Spiritualists with pleasant rooms, refined
harmonious circles, and good circles.” She will begin carrying out this
programme in a week’s time, and will probably give seances on Thurs¬
day and Saturday evenings.
With reference to the lock of hair stated by the spirits to have been
carried from Portsmouth to one of Dr. Monck’s seances in London, we
are informed that it was seen floating across the room from near the
cornice of a bookcase; and travelled diagonally downwards to Dr. Monck’s
head. As the evidence is not complete that it wus the same lock of
hair which was severed at Portsmouth, responsible witnesses should try
to get autograph letters carried between the circles, and authenticate the
facts with their names and addresses.
April 28, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
199
THE PUBLIC RECORDS OF SPIRITUALISM. j j
Mr. Peebles has once more left his home to travel among ! |
Spiritualists in distant lands; he is now in Mexico, just j j
before the hottest season begins, and while the country is jl
suffering, as usual, from chronic insurrection. In the course |||
of a letter which he has written to the Banner of Light, he l(j
narrates how he attended a seance at the residence of General
Gonzales in the city of Mexico, and was informed that there | I
are about 6,000 Spiritists in the town, that there are 60 ju
known circles in the Republic, and that 63,122 Mexicans ! j
have enrolled their names as avowed Spiritists. Here, then, j |
is information of the existence of a large body of otir bre- | |
thren, of whom almost nothing is known in England, and the j j
same may be said of the thousands of Spiritualists in Spain, j j
with their numerous journals, and of the fair proportion of j j
believers in the subject to be found in Portugal. It would j j
appear to be one of the chief objects of a National Associa- j j
tion of Spiritualists to deal with national subjects, and it has j |
all along been a matter of wonder to us that more has not j j
been done by the managers of the establishment at 38, Great j j
Russell-street, to collect and preserve more of the current |
and permanent literature of Spiritualism produced by foreign 0
countries. The solitary step of regularly obtaining and pre- j I
serving their journals would neither involve much work nor ijj
much expense, yet they cannot be found in the archives of j j
the National Association, neither are they to be seen on its j j
reading-room tables. Up to the present time statistical jfj
information as to the number of societies at work in connec- | |
tion with Spiritualism in various towns throughout the globe |||
has not been collected for historical and other purposes, by j j
any central body, and the first one which undertakes the j j
work will obtain an amount of influence and respect through- j !
out the Spiritualistic world which those who may come after- m
wards into the field will be unable to rival. Spiritualists every- | |
where would also be glad if some central body would collect j j
information, as to the number of public permanent libraries |||
existing in connection with the movement throughout the j j
world. Students would then know to whom to write to | j
obtain information which they could not gain from any jjl
collection of works in their own country, and authors of m
books, who would be glad to place them in public establish- j?|
ments where they would be both preserved and read, would be |||
equally pleased to receive the information which is now 1(1
lacking. In collecting materials of national and historical m
value such as these would prove to be, the British National I j
Association of Spiritualists would do itself honour; but it j(j
does not appear to have done all that it could do and all that j j
it ought to have done in this respect. m
- : I j
ON THE EXACT MEANING OF SOME TERMS COMMONLY ! |
USED IN PSYCHOLOGY. [ji
Goethe wrote, “ All that is wise lias been thought already: we must, j(!
however, try to think it again.” To this might be added, all that is i|
wise has been spoken already, yet we must utter it again; because the i (
phrases of one generation do not suit those of another. Hence it is that i (
we find in the history of thought a reverting to the study of the most
rudimentary ideas; and this occurs on the eve of any great intellectual !(
advance, as old weapons are furbished up and renewed before the fight i j
commences. The world of thought (at least in England and America) |)
is now on the eve of another such advance, of a victory to be gained by |(
the struggle of philosophers over “ the powers of silence.” The eternal \\
sphinx, nature, is just going to make an utterance; so we had better ■)
learn an universal language, that we may understand her when she does ij
speak. Words fraught with enormous meanings are carelessly \)
brandished about; but no one succumbs beneath their weight, because |/
they are not selected to suit the armour of each opponent. The terms \(
“individuality,” development, evolution, consciousness, death, life, |)
spirit, soul, force, even good or evil, are each of them precious as ;)
Solomon’s seal to some party or another, yet fail to convey an idea to |(
others. It is the purpose of this paper to study a few of these words |j
under the light of recent discoveries and conclusions. i)
I.—Development—Evolution. i)
First concerning development and evolution. These two words
have been used by the school of natural students, frequently called j)
materialists, because their researches are in the realm of matter. l<
To them the world owes an infinite increase of knowledge, and i{
also a rectification of some erroneous assumptions. To them (or j<
rather to their own too assumptive conclusions) we are also indebted | <
for an advance in philosophic induction. Such an assertion as that ij
“matter contains the promise and potency of every form of terres- ji
trial life,” makes us reflect and question whether the limits of the j<
known are coincident with the limits of the knowable, and whether the |,
now humanly-knowable is the limit of existence, not to say of being
itself. To the materialists we owe the valuable terms development and
evolution; but there is no reason why these words should be the sole
property of that school: they are equally needed by the psychologist,
for psychology is but a less materialised form of life, or development of
force. The psychologist, like the materialist, finds that life advances in
ever upward development. He finds that as matter, when thrown off
from one organism, is utihsed by another, having been somewhat altered
and suited to the purposes of the latter organism by its previous condi¬
tion, so thought (or the inner essence, by whatever name it be called) is
never annihilated, but is, in orderly sequence, caught up and utilised
for the benefit of some other organism. And with the materialist, the
psychologist marks a distinction between development as the orderly
outgrowth of the same form or manifestation of life, and evolution as the
orderly outgrowth of some new form from the old form. But the de¬
velopment of the old form is ever carried out as far as its nature will
permit before a form, to be called new, is evolved. This is particularly
observable in the individual, and in the race where intellectual develop¬
ment is in question. No new thought is attainable till the old thought
has been utilised and developed to its utmost; no new teaching, whether
by intuition, by revelation, or by human tongue, is possible till the
former lesson has been received into the system and worked out again.
II.—Death.
Concerning death. The changes in the meaning of this word have
been many. To the ancient Jew death implied extinction—annihilation,
complete and entire; to the ordinary Christian it now implies the disso¬
lution of the material portion of the individual for the release and ele¬
vation of his immortal spirit; to the physicist it appears as a dissolution
of the entire being, with consequent obliteration of all individuality, for
he deems that nothing is destructible, yet nothing at death is retained
with individual consciousness; he considers that dust goes back to dust,
and thought goes back to the general mass of surrounding intelligence.
“ Man,” such an one says, “ is not now the same for two minutes to¬
gether : his body is a constant flux, and his mind is a succession of
ideas, known only by their change, and both are inseparable parts of
the forces all around. An individual is where the forces of nature work
together for some special purpose. Individuality is entirely dependent
on organism, and when the forces are separated and the organisation
destroyed, then is the individual destroyed.” But to the psychologist
death implies something else. With the materialist he considers that
the mind, as well as the body, is a constant flux, and that both mind
and body are considerably affected by mortal death; but as he does not
consider with the ordinary Christian that man is made of only two dis¬
tinct things, body and spirit; so neither does he consider with the
materialist that man’s body expresses the potency of the whole of his
nature. The psychologist considers that the grades between matter as
tangible and visible to ordinary senses, and the innermost invisible
essence (known as life, or force, or spirit) are innumerable, and that the
process of death is merely the casting off of some of only the most con¬
crete, and, to us, tangible forms of matter. He does not think that
death sets the individual free from all the laws of time and space, but
only from those which bind creatures in that phase of existence in
which we now dwell.
There is a condition of matter, invisible to ordinary people, but
evidences of it are given by sensitives, clairvoyants, and mediums, who
have told us a good deal of the manifestation of matter just beyond—or
within—what we perceive. The aura round living creatures, the traces
of organisms remaining after they have been removed, the embodiment
of feelings even into visible forms, all these belong, not to an utterly
immaterial and eternal condition, but to a sphere of existence bordering
closely on that in which we now are. What is there perceived may be
termed embodiment of life, not incarnations of it.
Newton and others have asserted that matter is not solid, but is a
mass of atoms scarcely touching each other; that, for instance, a pig of
cold iron is a rapidly fluctuating mass of spherical atoms; and more
modern physicists say that force permeates matter, moving and vivifying
each separate atom, and causing that incessant change in them which is
the evidence of what we call life. These two assertions correspond with
the psychological dogma that matter is interpenetrated with spirit in a
manner inconceivable by us who can now perceive only some phases of
matter—that existences of a different nature to our own may be living
in the same world with us, using the same elements, permeating our
atmosphere, and absorbing those rarer aethers and modes of force to
which we are not sensible.
For, as we are at present constituted, “Two thirds of the rays
emitted by the sun fail to arouse in the human eye the sense of vision.
The rays exist, but the visual organ requisite for their translation into
light does not exist. And so, from this region of darkness and mystery
which surrounds us, rays may now be darting which require but the
development of the proper and intellectual organs to translate them into
knowledge, as far surpassing ours as ours surpasses the Iguanodon and
his contemporaries.”—(Tyndall’s Fragments of Science). It is agreeable
to the laws of development that the eyes of the mortal should be opened
to the perception of these rays in the condition following immediately on
the death of the body. Becoming percipient of these rays, all things
would appear in a new guise. If here, with perception of only one third
of a ray of light, we are yet able, through our organism, to postulate the
infinite and to conceive the ideal, what will not be our material and
| spiritual powers when our senses are more opened? For it must be
remembered that the five senses are five hindrances to the full percep¬
tion of even matter ; they limit us in sensibility to only certain forms of
i existence. “If,” as George Eliot says, “we had a keen vision and
feeling of all ordinary life, it would be like hearing the grass grow, and
the squirrel’s heart beat; and we should die of that roar which lies on
the other side of silence.” And yet, what would madden or kill us now,
is what we imagine will be our normal condition after death!
[ The psychologist considers death to be an unveiling of the powers of
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 28, 1876.
perception—a partial dissolution, and the destruction of many notions
gathered during the earth career, necessary to that condition, yet impos¬
sible in another. If hearing, feeling, and sight be but three modes of
perceiving the various speeds in the rates of vibration in particles of
matter, what a complete change would pass over our conceptions of it
when our sensations concerning it are altered! Is it any wonder that,
with this slight change in their modes of perception, the departed may
find it difficult to tell us much about themselves ? Is it any wonder that
psychic mediums confound their own senses, or that we frequently hear
them say, “ I am such and such a sensation,’’ or, “ Knowing a thing is
actually being that thing ? ’’ Is it any wonder that death should be so
immense, yet so small, a change, that the dead should retain some degree
of memory, yet find it difficult to express themselves to us ? To the
psychologist who rejects no reliable evidence, and who works inductively
as well as deductively, death is only part of a process in the kaleidoscope
of evolution. It is not, as pessimists would say, the climax of a failure,
nor, as optimists hold, the happy termination of fulfilled career. It is
to him simply the cessation of action, in the grossest forms of matter
alone, of that selecting power whose presence had collected the atoms
together, and had enabled the various forces of nature to affect them.
III.— Individuality.
The question of what this selecting power is, leads to the considera¬
tion of the word “ Individuality,” as it is generally said with supreme
certainty “that which survives is the individual.” But with an equal
supremity it is asserted (as quoted above) that “ individuality is where
the forces of nature work together for some special purpose; and when
the organism is destroyed, then also is the individual destroyed.” But
the psychologist persists in asking what it is which thus makes “ the
forces of nature work together” for a given time, whether for the hour
of a gnat’s existence, or for the hundred and fifty years of an oak tree,
or for the threescore and ten of a man. What is it, he fairly asks, which
thus persists and then desists ? There is evidence of some selecting
power within, which is more persistent than the forces it employs; for
—as an illustration—though I and my dog may eat exactly the same
food and breathe the same air, yet never do the molecules of matter
absorbed by us fail to continue to form my appearance as a human being
and his as a dog. “Certainly (Dr. Radcliffe, Contemporary Review,
December, 1874) the visible body is transitory, the matter of which it is
made is in a state of flux, and is constantly passing from the inorganic
to the organic world, and vice versa ; and yet, underlying this ceaseless
flux, there is something abiding, archetypal, spiritual (shall we call it?);
something by which these ever floating atoms are, for a time, compelled
to take on themselves the bodily form in which they are presented to the
senses. There is in man that which is beyond the reach of the senses,
a man transcorporeal, a body celestial and immortal, as well as terres¬
trial and mortal.” This transcorporeal being is, we may conclude, the
individual, so far as individuality exists at all/ But then, on looking
closely into what constitutes individuality, we have some difficulty in
finding it at all: for whilst some people consider it the one reality in a
phenomenal existence, others regard it only as a form of consciousness.
Whilst some would accord a death-surviving individuality to all
humanity, others would reserve it for those alone who attain during
earth-life to some more developed condition than that with which they
were born. A third party would grant death-surviving individuality to
all forms of existence; whilst a fourth would reject it for any. We are,
therefore, thrown back on the consideration of what is meant by indi¬
viduality, and the first answer is given in the fact that the proof that
you are not me, and that I am not you, is because we perceive things
differently, and even perceive different things. Individuality has been
well defined thus: “ Certain capacities and incapacities; certain affini¬
ties and repulsions; and, above all, a limited consciousness must ever
constitute individuality.” For it is evident, that could we all be
impressed exactly alike by the universe, could we all see everything
in the past and in the present exactly as it really is, and not only as we
now perceive it, merely partially, between us all there could be no
difference in those perceptions which now constitute plurality. As Mr.
Doyly Snow says in his theologico-political treatise, “ the many who
attained this one central view would be annihilated as separate
persons; they would be merged in one and the same mental unity.”
This realisation of the infinite, so ntterly impossible to us in our present
limited condition, is and has ever been the hope of every thoughtful
heart, whether heathen or Christian, regardless of the problem where
self would be when merged in the Universal All. Individuality, regarded
as only certain capacities, as only a few affinities, and as only a limited
consciousness, must, therefore, lie in our organism, not in our inner¬
most essence, for that (which will be hereafter considered under the
word Life) we must hypothesise to be eternal as it is universal.
But the psychologist does not assume that individuality ends
abruptly with mortal death: on the contrary, regarding that change as
only one in the incessant flux and reflux of life, he considers that
the limitations of organism will still, though in a less degree, pre¬
serve to the infinite germ within those incapacities which constitute
individuality.
“ Eternal form shall still divide
The eternal soul from all beside.”
Nor is it with him a mere assumption, powerful as that is when based
on the argument that the selecting power must be more abiding than the
forces it employed during its earth career. The scientific psychologist
accepts the evidence given by modern Spiritualism for such as it is
worth; and from that he learns that individuality belongs, in some
sense, to all existences, below the human, as well as human. Though
he may reject the belief that at ordinary seances messages are really
given by the actual defunct individuals whose names are spelt out to
credulous relatives and friends,—still he is forced to admit that some
individuals are at work behind the scenes; not, perhaps, as high in
the scale of creation as human creatures, yet consciously individual,
I selfishly tricky, and wrapped up in a personality so dense as to prefer
j the easy representation of falsity to the more difficult teaching of facts.
| And, further, he perceives dimly, because above—not below, his present
| philosophy—the benevolent assumption of individuality by powers and
spiritual intelligences, who yearn to grant the demands of his soul, by
| trying to teach him of those things which “ eye hath not seen, nor ear
| heard, nor heart of man hath conceived;” and who, in the effort to
communicate with him, are obliged to assume a personality they have
| lost. It has been well said by an impersonal spiritual instructor;
j “ Spirits of light in the upper spheres are not separated but for mis¬
sionary purposes which require special identity. They can separate in
action, but not in essence. . . . These have the gift of intensifying their
| etherial forms for purposes of action: but their spiritual bodies have
I passed through the second death, and know of no change, save the
| growth of love and praise.”
| Since, then, individuality appears to be a result of limited powers, it
is possible that individuality—though surviving mortal death—may not
be a distinctive and inherent property of the soul through all eternity.
If, with Mr. St. John Mivart (Con. Review, April, 1875), we admit that
“a soul is a single form of force, evoked by concurrent circumstances
I from potentiality into actuality,” we may add, with another philosopher,
“ all individualism is extemalism. As you go in, you become universal.”
! Externalism is not assumed to end, any more than it may have begun,
l with the career as a mortal human creature.
But though Mr. St. John Mivart has been quoted, still the psycho¬
logist is not prepared to admit that “ the soul is a single form of force.”
For, as the body of a man is formed of multitudes of molecules gathered
from surrounding organisms and from inorganic elements, so (it is now
held) what is ordinarily called “ himself ”—his individuality—is formed
likewise of a multitude of portions of other individualities, of inherited
and acquired spiritual germs, which are modified or improved by
surrounding circumstances.
Contemplate such a human being, made up of as many scattered
spiritual atoms as he is of material atoms! Truly he is a microcosm.
How marvellously is united in him the conscious and the automatic!
What a mysterious complication is he of manifold lesser individualisms,
of automatic impulses, of conflicting ideas! Is there a nucleus within
him? Has he actually any individuality? We assume that he has,
and that the predominant majority of similar impulses forms the nucleus,
or individuality. This majority exercises a tolerably determinate power,
and may be called the selecting power, or individuality. But, like all
other majorities, it is subject to defection in some of its members, and to
the addition of new and somewhat differently-minded members; so that
the dominant party is seen to change its tone in the course of years.
Motives which were autocratic rulers at one time become subordinate
at another period, and principles which once were unable to assert
themselves attain to a wise predominance in later times. “ The inner
man is renewed day by day; ” so much so that, in the great spiritual
development which ought to go on within him, a change so complete
may appear as to deserve the term of “ being born again.”
Nor is this selecting power peculiar to man. The zoophyte fastened
to a rock and the cabbage rooted in the ground possess likewise an
individuality or selecting power, which is probably as rudimentary and
simple as is its organic or inorganic covering. To the creature suffi¬
ciently developed to be able to move from its birth-place the psychologist
would accord a more highly-advanced indwelling individuality. To
animals having some degree of nervous organism must be accorded an
indwelling selecting principle, which (though probably possessing in
itself larger faculties than it can express through its organism) is yet
not endowed with as high a conscious selecting power as we attribute to
humanity.
Let it be remembered that I have assumed the selecting power to be
ever the majority of impulses; and, with this in mind, let the reader
consider how the survival of these (as cohering together after the material
dissolution of death) would depend on their superiority to the matter
which is affected by that death. If the selecting powers have been
exercised only on the needs of their temporary body, it is impossible to
conceive of their being able to cohere together for a long period after
the dissolution of that body. Our acquired knowledge is not yet suf¬
ficient to enable us to say how low in the scale of organic life any indi¬
vidual survival is possible. But—on the conclusion which we are
obliged to admit—that the selecting powers progress in sensibility and
in consciousness as matter progresses—we may suppose that the select¬
ing principles in the lowest vegetable organisms may possess no death-
surviving individuality, but may be reabsorbed by some higher organisms.
Yet, though dispersed, they will continue to proceed in the upward scale
of phenomenal existence, until so complicated an organism will be pro¬
duced, as to develops a capacity of choice between two things to be
selected, and here some individual-survival may begin.
IV.—Elementary Spirits.
In these survivals of a feebly-developed individuality, below the rea¬
soning individuality of man, is found the place for those existences called
elementary spirits. In his ordinary condition, man has no conscious
contact with these beings ; but the magician and the madman could tell
us a great deal about them. Here are the Ariels and the Pucks whom
the Prospero and the Oberon command. Here are the Banshees and
the tutelary wraiths whom anciently localised families still claim as an
inheritance from their forefathers. And here, too, are those terrible
vampires who obtain abnormal possession of a human being, and pro¬
duce the mental disturbances causing some forms of insanity. For
“Possession” is an active fact, and a very inconvenient one to the
impersonal theories which are now the fashion with physicists. But the
testimony of the insane is so universal as to be undeniable, about their
consciousness of the presence and influence of certain creatures, cunning
as low mental mortals, frisky as kittens, or foul as dogs, or full of tricks
as a monkey, or cruelly domineering as a tyrant. Here, too, we may
April 28, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
perhaps eventually find the source of those untrustworthy communica- j(j
tions, those strange yet useless “ physical manifestations ” which meet j j
the psychologic student on his initiation into abnormal conditions of l||
life, in the ordinary seance with professional mediums. | |
The advance in organic life has been great before this “ deposit of j j
spirit” is produced. We are here indeed close on the region where jn
conscious will presents itself. Here may be classed the faithful dog ! (i
who prefers long watching over his master’s safety to the indulgence of 11 ]
his own ease; an almost moral consciousness, which will not probably j |
be extinguished or entirely dissipated at death. We conceive the i |
aggregate of the impulses within him to be capable of some individual i |
survival which can be partially utilised in some yet higher organism; | j i
where it will be, not the sole individual, but will join with many other | I
inchoate developments of life, to form the conscious ego of some crea- | j
ture whom we call human. ;(i
V.—Life. r. : .d j |
Since then, under these considerations, individuality collapses into the i j
majority of dominant impulses, and which is apparent wherever there is |||
life, from its lowest to its highest manifestation—we are now led to con- | / j
sider the word Life. What life is, it would be impossible to say, unless i (j
with Shakespeare we own “ That that is, is.” All I propose to do here ]> 1
is to consider the meanings attached to life and its correlates. i /1
Life is a word out of fashion just now. Scientific men of a certain j (!
school have substituted for it the word Force, which term implies the i) I
one step beyond the present ultimate of their researches. Religious |||
people have also given up the use of life, preferring spirit when speak- ! (i
ing of that which animates humanity, and relegating life to the lower jji
automatic existences, and to the automatic functions of the human body. | /1
They make this nice distinction in accordance with the theory that man j (j
possesses within him an immortal something quite different to anything j | j
possessed by the lower creatures. Spirit is, they consider, a more direct
influx from Deity. But there is some capriciousness in this distinction, i !
and also much ignorance of the effect of the organism in expressing or |n
repressing the indwelling life. j (|
As far as research and revelation have at present gone, there is no m
possibility of discriminating between life and spirit. All that is assumed i | j
of, or attributed to, either, is common to each. And so with force, all | f I
that is attributed to it is identical with what is attributed to life and i (I
spirit. Neither of them is perceptible except through organisms; the j)j
sun-force which developes the forest leaves, and the spirit which spoke | (|
through Isaiah, are both visible in their effects only. We cannot tell j j
whence either comes or whither either goes. We only know that by In
whatever name we call it, it is a presence immanent in the universe, yet jtl
never visible. And if the reader will for a few moments consent to con- j (i
sider life, spirit, and force, as three terms for one and the same tiring, | /1
he will find the means of reconciling very divergent schools of thought, if I
who are in fact separated by their terms far more than by their ||j
doctrines. j) j
The Book of Genesis and the books of Goethe, Darwin, Bastian, &c., j I
all put forth, though in diverse phraseology, the assertion that chaotic \)\
inorganic matter, becoming imbued with force, or life, or spirit, produced | r j
gradually a somewhat more complicated organism; for, “it is in fact j(j
one of the most fundamental truths in biology that the performance of |) |
functions—or, in other words, the occurrence of actions of any kind in ||i
living matter—tends to occasion structural changes therein ” (Bastian, jyl
Conte?nj)orary Heview, J&nu&ry, 1876).* Through successive alliances Im
of matter and of life, or force,f the vertebrate creature was iff
evolved, and at length the intellectual being appeared. In other |(|
words, the life which had been used, expended, and re-employed in the |) |
earlier creations of the mineral and then of the vegetable world, was, | (i
by its very embodiments, raised in the power of expressing itself, and | (|
was therefore improving coincidently with the improvement of the j)j
matter through which it passed with endless flux and reflux. More compli- j (j
cated organisms were able to embody a more delicate expression of life, | \ |
which life again was able to develope a more delicate and complicated |/|
organism, the life acting always as an aggregate of selecting impulses. |(!
This perpetual dual development has been a preparation for a yet higher 111
evolutur; and each production has been a step by which its successor | \ i
ascends the ladder of eternal progression. Thus the growth of the jU
diplomatist out of the infant in the cradle is but a continuation of that |; i
sequence of conditions, physical, mental, and spiritual, which formerly ! (i
produced man upon the earth, and which the Infinite wisdom had SM
already employed when embodying itself in the lower forms of or- in
ganic life. i (j
It must not be forgotten that matter, however highly organised at one | (j
moment, is capable of resolution back to its elements at another; and, l/.j
similarly, in our ignorance we cannot deny that life, phenomenal as it jcj
always appears to us, may be capable of re-absorption back to its
universal source. For, as at present constituted, he can know nothing |) j
of it, but in its manifestations. It eludes us with its proteus-like form; 1(1
it is the maddening Naya of the philosopher, the unbeheld glory of the j 11
prophet, the unfulfilled love of the poet. If for a moment we think, we i)j
see it in the individual or selecting power within each organism. It con- i( |
founds us by the limitations of that individualism, and we are forced to j > j
own that this cannot be the mighty universal principle, since this indi- |) i
vidualism is but finite and limited. And, if for a moment we relapse \
with the mystic into the conclusion that the infinite lies somewhere i; i
apart from the finite, and that there is some far off condition where in
eternal pure being dwells, separate from these transient existences, we : \ i
are again confounded by the material facts we have before us of the in- j) i
destructibility of matter, and of its eternal permeability with life. So \l\
that, from incapacity to prove further, we are obliged to admit that, as M
* Here is an axiom from the materialist school, which is one of the rudi- ;) i
mental laws of the higher Spiritualists. ;) i
f Henceforth in this paper life will be used as synonymous with force and ; (i
spirit. $
far as we can travel in thought, no point can be gained whence we can
perceive any distinction between life (force or spirit) and the Supreme,
as we conceive of Him. We can only postulate that life is an unity in
its essence, and is multiform only in its phenomena. This is no new
idea; many years ago Synesius, Bishop of Pentapolis, wrote in one of
his Latin Hymns:—
“ A fragment of the Divine Parent descended into matter;
A small portion indeed, but it is everywhere the One in all.
All diffused through all, it turns the vast circumference of heaven,
Preserving the universe : distributed in divers forms, it is present.
A part of it is the course of the stars; a part is the angelic choir;
A part—with a heavy bond—found an earthly form,
And, disjoined from the parent, drank dark oblivion.”
It is a happy belief that we are parts of this lovely all, though we
are so now unconsciously, having “drunk dark oblivion,” We are
rejoiced to feel ourselves united in closest brotherhood with all the
inconceivable forms of love and intelligence, who fill up the vast void
between us and the Supreme ; and we find ourselves more truly “ lords
of the creation yet below us,” when we look on it as expressing, auto¬
matically, the life which it is our work as mortals to develope con¬
sciously. Not that we would insist that all selecting powers below ours
act only automatically, any more than we can claim a free will; for all
the freedom of choice we possess is but the liberty of an enchained dog,
who has the choice only of reposing at the length of his tether or within
his kennel. The limit of our powers and the extent of our conscious¬
ness is certainly greater than that of the polyp who can only select to
swing with the lapping waves or adhere motionless to the rock; but we
are bounded, as they are, by the limitations of our nature. It is only
within the limitations of that nature that we can exercise a choice.
But it is undeniable that, no matter how narrow be the limits for the
exercise of his will, still the man who can abstain from the exercise of
an impulse or the gratification of a desire, is infinitely higher in the
scale of existences than is the man who cannot control his impulse or
exercise a choice. Indeed the power to judge and control our instincts
implies the presence of something new, and non-existent in the lower
forms of life. As Mr. St. John Mivart states it (Contemporary Review,
October, 1874): “With our entrance into the world of self-conscious
reason, and of some degree of volition, we impinge on another order of
being from that revealed by all below it—an order of being which the
cosmical universe intersects, as the different lines of cleavage and strati¬
fication may intersect in the same rock.”
Here truly we find the evolution of new faculties and new perceptions.
Here the consciousness of self, the attainment to which was a great
advance in some of the lower organisms, begins to develope into the
consciousness of a something besides self. As “at first the selecting
power had to concentrate to live externally, so now it has to radiate to
live internally,” until at last it is able to conceive of ideas, to postulate
the abstract, and even to love something beside the objects which con¬
duce to its own immediate comfort. In the first dim consciousness of a
“law within,” of “an ideal good,” of a power that “works for right¬
eousness,” we find the germ of a fresh capacity, accrued to the selecting
power. By gaining a small conception of the infinite it has “passed
from death to life,” from that merely material existence which will be
entirely dissipated at death, to a consciousness of principles, which con¬
sciousness will not be wholly dissolved with the first casting off of the
grossest forms of matter. For there are many deaths and births beside
physical mortality and generation. We die daily to the outer as we
apprehend more and more of eternal principles; we die into life as we
outgrow merely personal, in the perception of universal interest. “ This
is life to know Thee and when such life has been experienced, then
mortal death ceases to be as important an event as is that death to self,
to which he daily joyfully submits, and which tends to diminish his in¬
dividuality. These inner deaths and births suggest, by their very in¬
completeness, the necessity for some after-condition of individual sur¬
vival, where we may learn and experience things concerning the
material universe and our relations to it, which we have not acquired
here. We cannot be content to admit that we have risen, externally and
internally, by gradual ascent from the lowest organism, unless we may
expect to continue our upward journey through all forms of matter.
“ There is nothing more surprising,” said Dean Stanley (University
Sermon, December, 1874), “ in being told that man has sprung from the
dust of the earth, than that a Newton and a Shakespeare sprang from a
small sleeping infant without speech and reason. But it would be new,
it would be against all fact and experience, if we were told that, because
of this humble origin, therefore we could never rise above it. Man
looks upward, not downwards. It is the direction in which he looks,
far more than the actual look itself which indicates what he is. It is
not the descent of man, but his ascent, which indicates his true nature
and being.” G. T. C. M.
An Abridgment of Swedenborg’s Works.—The Banner of Light
announces that the Swedenborg library, from the press of Claxton,
Itemsen, and Haffelfinger, Philadelphia, is to be comprised in ten or
twelve small volumes, red-edged and tastefully bound—reminding one
of the Bric-a-Brac series—and is to present to modern readers a
popular but comprehensive summary of the writings of Emanuel Swe¬
denborg. The design will be hailed with delight by a wide class of
readers. The voluminousness of Swedenborg, together with the amount
of what seems to be involved, mystic and repetitive in his writings,
deters the bulk of readers from making that acquaintance with his
teaching and philosophy which they would be glad to make if they
could but have an intelligent guide through such a wilderness of read¬
ing. This undertaking seems to promise just what they want. The
editor is Mr. B. F. Barrett, who labours under the auspices of “ The
Swedenborg Publishing Association.”
202 THE SPIKITTJALIST. April 28, 1876.
(Korresponnence.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed |
to those of this journal and its readers^
MORE ABOUT PUBLIUS STRUS.
Sir,—Yesterday I introduced to Mme. R (the clairaudient medium
through whom I have received the remarkable Latin communications
from Publius Syrus) two English friends, whom I shall call Mr. and Mrs.
Z . I regret that I have no right to print a name to which attaches j
a high University and public reputation. They are investigators, and
have had some experience, though I have not asked for their conclusions j
—if, indeed, they have reached any. I wished them to witness an
attempt I proposed to make to obtain from Publius Syrus a fifth maxim
or sentence in continuation of the four (in Latin) already received by me.
I sat first at the table with Mme. R , and received (as usual) a com¬
munication from my mother. Then asked if Publius Syrus was present?
No. Could she bring or send for him ?—Would try. After a minute or
two he was there* “ I beg you to give me another Latin maxim, to
enable me to go on accumulating the proof of the reality of your
presence. Please give first your name; not for me, but for the satisfac¬
tion of my friends here.’’—“ Publius Syrus.'' “ Give me, too, that of
your great friend and protector.” “ Julius Kessar." (Observe that he
did not give our modern form of Casar.) Mme. R might be pre¬
sumed by this time to know that fact, though she could not have known
about the K; so I then asked, “ Give me further the name of your
contemporary and great rival as an author of Mimes, with whom you
held a public competition in the presence of Csesar? ”—" Laberius.”
(Right). Mr. Z then wrote in his note book, and asked me whether
he would give the name of another contemporary whom he had in his
mind. I made the request of Publius Syrus; but the first letter, as
tilted by the table, was not correct. Mme. R remarked that the
spirit perhaps was not in rapport with my friend, who was a stranger,
there for the first time, and therefore could not read his mind, and sug¬
gested that the name desired should be communicated to me. This was
done, and the name was then correctly spelled out, “ Dolabella." I
then proceeded to ask for another Latin maxim, however short it should
be, as time pressed, when the following in French was given: “ La
verite est un stylet aigu qui entre profondement et douleureusement dans
le coeur des masses, qui le plus souvent sont plus blessees de ses coups
qu'heureuses de la morale qui elle leur apporteP (Truth is a sharp stylet
which pierces deep and with pain into the heart of the mass of men,
who often feel more the wound of its blows than the happiness of the
moral which the truth brings). I was about to say that I would come
another day to ask for the translation of this, as I had already occupied
so much of Mme. R ’s time, when the spirit said, “ I am going to
translate it,” and then was written “ Veritas ensis.” (Truth is a sword.)
Something curious followed. The letters slagf came. “This is non¬
sense ; pray begin again.” “ Quis—but this is not the same spirit,”
said Mme. R ; “ the movement of the table is different. Are you
still Publius Syrus?’’—“No.” “Is he still here?”—“No.” He had
gone after giving “ Veritas ensis.” I then presumed that he had gone
because he read my great regret at this monopoly of the time, and my
wish that the translation had been left for another day, and that then
some other spirit had stepped in, as often happens. But it afterwards
flashed on me that “ Veritas ensis” was meant by Publius Syrus to be
the whole, a very short maxim, in accordance with my request, and that
it was left to my own reflections to evolve out of those single words the
fuller thought contained in them as in germ. A sword does, indeed,
give deep and painful wounds, and when that sword is that of a new
truth which the heart resists or shrinks from, the quivering pain from
the blow of the sword is, to the mass of men, greater than the enjoyment
of the moral good which accompanies the piercing truth. Those who
have indulged in the wild notion that these Latin sentences were
unconscious creations, or recollections, or translations made by my own
mind, will hardly suppose that I could ever have translated the above
thought, as it had been given in its developed form, into the mere two
words which Publius Syrus gave as his intensely condensed translation,
of course.*
Mr. Z then sat at the table, but no spirit which had been known j
to him came. Mrs. Z succeeded him, and Mme. R proposed
that they should wish for the presence of some sympathetic spirit which
had been known to both of them. They had some difficulty in fixing
upon any. At last they did agree upon a name in regard to which they |
wished to see what would come of it. It was not till the whole was over \
that they explained to me who and what was the spirit they evoked by
their wish. They asked for the name, or, rather, “ what we commonly
called you.” “ Poc ” was spelled out, and then followed some difficulty j
about the spelling of the rest of the name, but it was completed with j
“ cy.” “ Yes, Pocky is the familiar name applied to her. As she was j
a child of only five years old, she could not be expected to be strong in
spelling.” Mrs. Z   then asked her for the name of her little com- j
panion. “ Cic ” was given, and then, again, a difficulty as before, as j
Pocky would not have shone at a spelling-bee. But they considered i
that as sufficient, the name in question being Cissey. (These difficulties I
in spelling, which caused Mrs. Z to have to go several times
through the alphabet in vain, showed that it was not thought-reading, but
the real inability of the five-years of age-to spell.)—“ Now Pocky, dear, j
tell us your colour.” “ Li.”—“ That’s right Pocky, dear, you are a j
clever little girl. Go on.” To expedite matters I suggested to fill out j
at once the word “light.”—“ No and it was filled out by Mrs. Z j
with “ Little.” Her husband and herself smiled and laughed together
* It is supposable that the names of Julius Kcesar, Laberius, and Dolabella j
above mentioned might have been cases of thought-reading, but that supposi- i
tion in regard to this translation of a long sentence into these two words is j
simply preposterous.—J. L. O’S. I
as this proceeded. I could not make anything out of the letters which
followed—| blackingingi,” till Mrs. Z completed them with “ rl,”
and divided the whole into “ Little black Ingin Girl.” They explained
that it was nobody whom they had known in life, but a little child spirit
with which they were familiar at certain private seances in England,
named Pocky, who always described herself as the ‘Gittle black Indian
girl.” A further proof of her identity was this : several times in the
course of the operations above described there occurred a peculiar and
prolonged quivering of the table (which I have witnessed before). “ She
is laughing,” explained Mme. R ■, who understood nothing of what
was going on in English. Mr. and Mrs. Z said afterwards that she
was a funny little creature, who was always laughing. They explained
the origin of the name “Pocky.” When she first came to the circle in
which they knew her she gave her name as Vergolami, describing her¬
self as a little Hindoo girl; but the circle, owing to some confusion
between East Indians and American Indians, took to calling her “ Poca¬
hontas,” the famous daughter of the great Virginia chief Powhatan, who,
after saving the life of the handsome and gallant English captain, John
Smith, from her father’s uplifted war-club, completed her good work by
marrying him, and making him the progenitor of some of the “ F.F.V.’s”
(first families of Virginia). Pocahontas soon became familiarly “ Pocky,”
for short. Time did not permit “bur carrying the seance further. Need¬
less to say, that my friends went away highly satisfied, to return to
England next morning. I only regret that I feel compelled to veil under
the anonymous Z. their own distinguished name, but I may give it con¬
fidentially to the Editor. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, April 22nd.
mr. Blackburn’s seances.
Sir,—At the seance held, with Mr. Eglinton as medium, at the rooms
of the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, on
Friday last, the 21st inst., there were present, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers in
charge, Mr. Arthur Colman, Mr. Andre, Mr. and Miss Collingwood,
Miss Casey, Mr. Ivatts, Mrs. Lewis, Mrs. Rogers, Mr. and Mrs. Lord,
and myself.
Mr. Eglinton had given a stance the same afternoon elsewhere, and
Joey explained to us, in the course of the evening, that the power was
weak in consequence.
The medium having been bound, and the gas turned low, we were, in
two or three minutes, informed by raps that the medium was choking.
It was found that, he having fallen over sideways in his chair, a tape
which had been passed loosely round his neck was pressing too much
on his windpipe. The tape was cut, and, in a few minutes more, Joey’s
peculiar voice informed us that it was “ all right now, Mr. Rogers.”
He then told us that if we would sit for hand moulds another night we
should get them, and that he had been extremely successful in that way
that afternoon with his medium and Mr. A. Colman, but that the test
conditions had been so stringent that the medium’s power was a good
deal used up. He then greeted Mr. and Mrs. Lord as old friends, told
them that they had just come up from the seaside, and, later in the
evening, added, in answer to questions as to when and where they had
ever met him before, that he had met them on a Saturday night about
eighteen—no, about fifteen—months ago, at a seance with Mr. Williams,
at which Mr. Eglinton had been present, and which had been held at
Mr. Lord’s house. In answer to further questions as to whether any¬
thing particular had occurred to Mrs. Lord, he said, “You hurt your
foot by falling over a fender.” Being asked whether anything remark¬
able had occurred to Mr. Lord, he told us that he had had a bunch of
violets given him. As this was not what Mr. or Mrs. Lord were think¬
ing of, he was asked, “ Anything else ? ” “ Yes, I picked your pocket
of your cigar-case, and distributed the cigars to the company; I gave
my medium one.” This, also, was not what they were thinking of; so
Joey was asked for more information, when he told us that Mr. Lord
had been bodily raised, in a perfectly conscious state, to the ceiling.
Mr. and Mrs. Lord did not know Mr. Eglinton at that time, and had no
recollection of having met him, and the seance had been held at Mr.
Williams’s rooms, and not at Mr. Lord’s ; but, with this exception, Mr.
and Mrs. Lord vouched for the accuracy of Joey’s “ recomembrances,”
as he called them, and knowledge of their movements. Joey also called
Mrs. Lord up to the cabinet, and made some further communications
to her in a confidential whisper. These were not imparted to the rest
of the company.
Before the above conversation, Joey had complained that his medium
was inefficiently tied, which was the case. So he was waked up, and
carefully tied again in an arm-chair by Mr. Rogers, Mr. Ivatts, and
myself, each leg and arm being tied to the chair, his hands tied to¬
gether, and to his knees. Under these conditions a hand was shown,
and some minor manifestations took place. In the meanwhile Mr.
Colman had gone into a trance, and Joey presently told us that he (Mr.
Cblman) must come into the cabinet, as Mr. Eglin ton’s power was
insufficient. Mr. Cblman, still in trance, walked into the cabinet,
and instructed Mr. Rogers to place his (Mr. Colman’s) chair immediately
behind Mr. Eglinton’s, and to tie his hands to the back of Mr. Eglinton’s
chair. After this, a hand and arm, naked to the elbow, were repeatedly
thrust out at different parts of the front, and at the two side windows of
the cabinet, which were nearly two yards apart, the doors being wide
open, and a curtain hung in front. The interval of time between the
appearance at the two opposite windows was sometimes apparently
scarcely a second. So far as I could see, the hand was always a right
hand, and, I thought, the same hand, though other members of the
circle thought it sometimes much smaller than either of the mediums’.
There were no rings on it, and it was soft, and cool, much more so than
Mr. Eglinton’s were a few minutes afterwards when we released him,
and found his wrist deeply indented by the tape, and his hands hot and
swollen, and much rougher than the one I had previously handled for
some time. Mr. Eglinton wore rings on his right hand. I am sorry to say
April 28, 1876. !
THE SPIEITUALIST.
203
that I neglected to examine Mr. Colman’s hands after the seance, but per¬
haps some one else may have done so. A face, which from my position I
could not see, was shown, as the other sitters stated, very distinctly, two
or three times, remaining once in view for some seconds. It was
said to be Abdullah’s, and was surmounted by a white turban. Musical
instruments inside the cabinet were played on, banged about, handed
out of the various apertures and taken back again. The voices of John
Scott and Ernest were also heard, the former before Mr. Colman went
into the cabinet, the latter after. Aimee also spoke to Miss Casey
through Mr. Colman.
One curious incident at the seance was the mesmeric influence which
Mr. Ivatts undesignedly exercised over Mr. Colman, so that before he
could come to he had to ask Mr. Ivatts to “ demesmerize ” him. Mr.
Ivatts told us that he had practised mesmerism a great deal, but had
never been to a spiritual seance before.
The tapes on both mediums were found intact after the seance.
A. Joy, Hon. Sec.
SPIRITUALISM A FACT.
Sir,—A few weeks ago a young friend of mine, who lately became
interested in spirit manifestations, said to me, “ Spiritualism is a fact,
and it cannot be ignored.” After he had gone from me, I remembered
that this phrase was often made use of by Spiritualists, and I thought
the exceedingly small value of it, in the point of view from which it is
generally uttered, is seldom considered. Spirit manifestations, in
diverse forms, are facts. But murder also, adultery also, thieving also,
gambling also, and an unmentionable number of other ugly manifesta¬
tions of human depravity, are also facts, in diverse forms. But what
better is society for their existence and cultivation ? Spiritism must
advance very different reasons for its worthiness of cultivation than its
mere existence, and possibly of sensual demonstration as a fact, before it
has any claim upon rational minds, or-upon the cultivators of moral and
rehgious science. Of course, sobriety and drunkenness are both facts,
and so are chastity and prostitution, justice and knavery, innocence and
guilt, but in all these, and in all other opposites, the fact of their exist¬
ence is by no means the measure of their worth.
The same young friend, above-mentioned, put into my hand last
night a pamphlet entitled “ Spiritualism Unveiled, and shown to be
the "Work of Demons.” In this pamphlet, all the evils I have men¬
tioned, and many more, are proved to exist to an alarming extent within
the precincts of spirit communication, and professional mediumship,
and the proofs are professedly given from Spiritualistic journals and
mediums, mostly and especially from those in America.
One short part of an extract, contained in the pamphlet, I will
thank you to allow me to reproduce here. It is stated to be from the
pen of a “ Dr. B. William Potter,” and to be from an article headed “ As¬
tounding Facts”:—
Dr. P. says: “ We have, through our own mediumship and that of
others, had ‘ spirit manifestations,’ which the most careful and rigidly
scientific investigations have shown, beyond all doubt or possibility of
mistake, to be of spirit origin. Fifteen years of critical study of
spiritual literature, an extensive acquaintance with the leading Spirit¬
ualists, and a patient, systematic, and thorough investigation of the
manifestations for many years, enable us to speak from actual knowledge,
definitely and positively of ‘ Spiritualism as it is.’ Spiritual literature is
full of the most insidious and seductive doctrines, calculated to under¬
mine the very foundations of morality and virtue, and lead to the most
unbridled licentiousness. We are told that ‘ we must have charity
that it is wrong to blame any one; that we must not expose iniquity, as
‘ it will harden the guilty;’ that ‘ none should be punished;’ that ‘ man is
a machine and not to blame for his conductthat ‘ there is no high, no low,
no good, no bad ;’ that ‘ sin is a lesser degree of righteousnessthat ‘ no¬
thing we do can injure the soul, or retard its progress;’ that * those who
act the worst will progress the fastest;’ that lying is right, slavery is
right, murder is right, adultery is right; that ‘ whatever is is rightthat
‘ sexual union is necessary for health and developmentthat it is a great
help to mediums to get ‘ spiritual elements,’ but, if the parties are not
adapted, it is a great injury and an * awful wrongthat 1 as persons
develops they become unadapted, and poison each otherthat ‘ variety
is more productive of mental and physical development’ ” (pages 37 and
38 of the pamphlet).*
The large mass of contradictory doctrinal evidence, called from
various sources into the pages of this small pamphlet, is certainly a blot
on the escutcheon of Spiritism, which will not be easily effaced. But
the writer of the pamphlet is in a curious predicament in relation to his
doctrine and philosophy of angels and demons. He has no world
to put them in. And as to men-angels and men-demons, he does not
seem to appreciate the manufacture of such beings at all, by either the
good or ill-doings, either of Spiritism or of religion. His angels
were created such, and his demons became such by sinning in heaven,
and being thrust out. And the only place he can find for them since their
fall is “ not a place in the midst of the earth or sea,’’ but the aerial
“ regions round about this earth.”
But this letter is already too lengthy to admit of any discussion of
this matter, and it will, I am sure, require the utmost stretch of your
liberality, Mr. Editor, to allow you to conclude to insert what has been
above stated. However, judge for yourself and oblige
Thomas Robinson.
Newtonheath, near Manchester, April 3rd, 1876.
A SEANCE AT THE BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Sir,—A seance was held by some of the members of this society on
Saturday last at the house of Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, with Mr. Eglinton the medium, at which the usual
* The pamphlet is, I find, a reprint of articles contained in The Bible Echo:
A Penny Weekly Eeligious Newspaper,—T. R.
phenomena, such as the floating of the music-box, touching the various
sitters, and so on, were produced. Then one of a more difficult character
was undertaken by the power. A galvanic battery was connected with
a bell in a locked box, the key of which was removed, and it was
rendered impossible to ring the bell except by touching a small lever in
the relay instrument. Special care was taken, after placing the relay
under a glass cover, to fasten the cover down by means of gummed
paper, over which lines were drawn, so that the least attempt to move
the cover would have been detected.
There being a doubt iu the first part of the stance (in darkness, with
the medium’s hands held on either side) that, although the bell was
rung, one side of the cover had been disturbed, the experiment was
repeated in the after part of the seance, held with just sufficient gas¬
light to read by, when the bell again rang repeatedly. At the termina¬
tion of Jhe seance the paper fastenings were found intact. A more
severe test is in contemplation next time, namely, to lock the whole
apparatus in a box; but the test just described was sufficiently startling
and satisfactory.
In addition, the direct voice was heard; in fact, an almost continuous
conversation was kept up. Several spirit forms were presented to view,
and at one time the medium and the form were seen at the same instant.
A lock of hair materialised, and a piece of muslin, were also given, for
the genuineness of which we have only the spirit’s word, as we did not
see them cut off. In this seance no tests were imposed upon the
medium, i.e,, he was not tied up.
H. E. Francis, Hon, Sec.
“ HAFED, PRINCE OF PERSIA.”
Sir,—May I ask the favour of your granting me a short space to
reply to “A. J. S.” regarding my remarks on “ Hafed,” and beg to
thank him warmly for calling my attention to the fact that my remarks
were rather vaguely expressed.
The following sentence in my letter should have ended, as I then fully
intended, and as I now give it, with the addition in italics. “If the
reputed spirits of Ruysdal and Steen will condescend to such petty
deceptions, can any one have confidence that there is even a shade of
truth in the events which Hafed and Hermes profess to narrate V' To
this it may be said, that it does not constitute a non sequitur; that
because Ruysdal and Steen fall from rectitude, that Hafed and Hermes
should be linked with their transgressions. Nor have I wished to do so,
further than implying that when two parties connected with the work
exhibit a moral defection, there is no guarantee that the third and fourth
parties may not have an equal proneness to do likewise. The pertinent
maxim in this life, that “a man is judged by the company he keeps”
appears to be equally recognised in spirit-life, and that forms the basis
of my doubtful faith in Hafed’s integrity. Let me further elucidate.
In spirit-life speech is unnecessary to express thought or sentiment,
because the inmost thoughts of spirits are at once apparent to each
other. Such being the case, Hafed must have known that the illustra¬
tions were neither original nor truthful to his narrative. And can we
suppose that the spirit who was companion (?) to the great Prince of
Truth could sanction that which would soil the purity of his narrative
of Christ’s early life ? I think no one will say there is any undue
straining of ethics in this view. Again, I must further express my
entire disbelief that the spirits personating Ruysdal and Steen are truly
the spirits of those great artists. Who can for a moment give resting to
the idea, that spirits of such transcendent talents and facile powers,
whose genius and aptitude for illustrating were to the “ manner born,”
would so degrade their names by paltry piracy ? When this unfortu¬
nate contretemps appeared, at once impeaching the integrity of the
work, I cannot express the. regret and chagrin I felt, for it rudely
assailed and shook much of my dearest hopes regarding spiritual pro¬
gression. And, in conclusion, I trust and pray that the time is not far
distant when the spiritually mediumistic atmosphere will be cleared and
purified from much that at present deforms its otherwise celestial
aspect. J. B. W.
22nd April, 1876.
THE HOMOGENEOUS NATURE OF SPIRIT.
Sir,—Mr. St. George W. Stock has given us a most interesting and
highly philosophical article on Materialism and Modern Spiritualism,
in relation to which will you permit me to refer again to Bacon’s theory
of spirit. He says that the soul or spiritual nature of man is “ one of
the simplest of substances,” that is to say, that that which receives
impressions, succeeded by thoughts and feelings, impulses, and acts, is
of an homogeneous nature, and is, therefore, neither an organised body
nor a “ compound,” and hence if this nature or spirit be separated from
the body, it would retain that simple and homogeneous character, and
we may suppose might retain a constant and “ incorruptible ” existence
in an equally incorruptible spiritual atmosphere essentially of the same
nature as itself, such as the incomprehensible “ ethereal ” medium of
light. Whereas in the physical world all is change and inter-change
from first to last, for even the corn which had retained its vitality in the
ancient tomb for thousands of years, would be changed with the
destruction of the tomb, which sooner or later must come to pass. I
think in regard to a spirit it is only creating unnecessary difficulties to
require and suppose another and inner nature and “shrine of conscious¬
ness,” or a something beyond or underlying the spiritual substance
itself, and as Milton has it, in its nature more intuitive than rational.
By intuitive he meant mental ability, independent of organs of percep¬
tion, and in one sense we do find, as in clairvoyance, the senses are
rather an impediment than otherwise, though practically essential to our
physical needs and to our objective relations in this life. All our per¬
ception has objective relations, followed by corresponding ideas and
thoughts, but the thought is no more au inner fact of the ego than
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apeil 28, 1876.
the perception; the ego is simply the individuality, with the sense we
have of ourselves as a personal existence. Mr. Lewes, in his Problem
of Life and Mind, seems to think that the relation and unity of sub¬
stance and thought are explained “under the intelligible forms of con¬
cave and convex,” in which “idealism is vindicated in all that it has
of truth, and realism is rescued.” But that would be much the
same as the seal and its impression, which similitude he denies, as
well as that of the perception being as a picture, he forgetting that a
picture is of that which we perceive, or as the objective nature is
represented in the mind—a strange forgetfulness on the part of Mr.
Lewes. The question being rather as to how far a picture does
resemble what it is intended to represent—but certainly the picture
is in the mind before the mental impression is transferred to the
canvas—a picture, therefore, is precisely what the visual impression
is. What Mr. Stock refers to as recent psychological discoveries,
which seem to lend such startling support to Berkeley’s theory of
existence, I do not know, for the idealism of Berkeley is this, that
the perceptions are the things themselves, and at a distance from
the percipient; the reply to which is that they cannot then be per¬
ceptions, or how are we to bridge over the chasm, to make the
object and the perception one and the same? I have put this to Dr.
Collyns Simon, the great authority on Berkeley, and do not find that he
can give any intelligible explanation of the difficulty, but shall be most
glad to learn from Mr. Stock to what it is that he refers. It is curious
to find Mr. Herbert Spencer attempting to refute Berkeley, and Pro¬
fessor Huxley trying to defend him, but both, it is thought, have failed
in their efforts. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne, April 23rd.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OFFICES.
Sir,—Under the above heading you state that your tenancy of a room
on the premises of the Association I shall cease in March, 1877.”
No such intention was expressed, nor, I believe, held by any one
voting for the resolution referred to. A. Joy.
69, Great Russell-street, W.C., 24th April, 1876.
SPIRIT HANDS AND ARMS.
Sir,—Will you allow me to say a few words in reference to the letter
of Miss Kislingbury, in your paper of April 14th, on “ Miss Lottie
Fowler’s physical manifestations ?’’
I was present at the seance in question, and was so placed as to have
good opportunity for observation. I can therefore confidently confirm
Miss Kislingbury’s statement that the hand and arm observed in rapid
motion outside the cabinet were the exact “ doubles ” of Miss Fowler’s.
This statement, unless qualified by another, might afford to sceptics a
very easy explanation of the whole matter. I am therefore called upon
to state most emphatically that the way in which the medium was
secured, and the rapidity with which we examined her after each mani¬
festation, made any supposition of imposture in this case quite impos¬
sible in the minds of those present. Emily G. FitzGerald.
6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, April 25th, 1876.
Spiritual Phenomena in Rome.—Signor Bondi, in a letter from
Rome, dated April 21st, to Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester,
incidentally mentions, without going into details, that he had been to
many seances since Mr. Blackburn left that city, and that some of the
best of the phenomena had taken place in broad daylight, in the open
street. He said that he had seen a coat taken on and off a medium in
the street, and that small objects had been brought to them from their
rooms at request. He further adds that some of the mediums in Rome
are frequently carried from one place to another, and that last Saturday
a medium was brought to his house. These things ought to be well
examined and well authenticated.
Presentiments.—The father of Grimaldi, the clown, died in 1788,
leaving funded property to the amount of i/15,000 to be divided be¬
tween Joe and his brother; but the executor became a bankrupt within
a year, and the two boys lost the whole of their fortune. A singular
presentiment is reported of “ Iron legs” Grimaldi (not the Joe), who
had a profound dread of the 14th day of the month. At its approach
he was always nervous and disquieted ; directly it had passed he was
another man again, and invariably exclaimed, in his broken English,
1 Ah! now I am safe for another month.” Yet he at length died on the
14th of March. He was bom, christened, and married on the 14th of
the month.—Sunday Times, April 16th, 1876,
Spiritualism and Scientific Committees.—In a leading article on
the committee then just appointed by the St. Petersburg University for
the investigation of Spiritualism, which article was published in The
Spiritualist of July 16th, 1875, we pointed out how dishonourably
previous scientific committees had treated mediums, and how, when the
Harvard University Committee obtained startling results, it never pub¬
lished them, and broke its promise to do so, so great was its moral
cowardice. The same article told the St. Petersburg investigators:—
“ Scientific committees are in reality on their trial before mediums, and
not the mediums on trial before the committees. If the latter tell the
truth their temporary sacrifice is great; if they save their skins by
evading the results, the martyrdom to which the mediums may have
been subjected is all thrown away, and whichever way the inquirers
decide makes very little difference to Spiritualism. In England thou¬
sands of families know the phenomena to be real, and constantly see
them in their own homes; consequently in the minds of very great
numbers of people in this country the estimation of scientific men is at
an extremely low ebb, and they are scarcely awarded even that respect
to which they are honourably entitled for the knowledge they give to
the world in connection with those subjects which they understand.”
Probinctal fietos.
[ I ■ ' ; LEIGH.
jyi ITALIAN SPOKEN THROUGH A MEDIUM NOT CONVERSANT WITH THE
!;i LANGUAGE.
m At the public seance given at the White Horse Assembly-room, on
| | Tuesday week, a young wonian named Elizabeth Ball, a native of
| | Golborne, was introduced as a “trance medium,” and somewhat
||| astonished her audience by the supposed marvellous nature of her
I | linguistic and clairvoyant powers whilst, as was asserted, she was under
jf the control of spirits.
|)| Miss Ball, the medium, states that she is a native of Golborne, and
111 about twenty-two years of age; indifferently educated, and without
i (! knowledge of any language but her native tongue. She states that she
i)| has been in domestic service, but has not been abroad, with the excep-
| tion of three weeks in France, and that until about four months since
|1 she was not acquainted with Spiritualism in any way, and was not
| )j aware that she was, as she now declares unhesitatingly she is, a medium.
| (i That power she first discovered whilst, against her wishes, joining in a
{II Spiritualistic circle at Bolton. Her conduct then induced her friends
| f | to prevail upon her to join with them at their meetings. After one of
| (l the sittings she was told she had. been talking, to which she replied
!|j that it was all nonsense, and if she had been it was the devil and
|J| nothing else. Her scruples were, however, overcome, and gradually
I | certain “ spirits ” elected her as the medium of communication with
i) i those on the earth, but with the unpleasant consequence to herself that
||i she had to give up her situation.
! | At the seances held during the week, after the usual singing, Miss
j) | Ball has been thus * controlled,” the most singular control being a spirit
j | calling himself “ Jimbo,” who is ignorant of English with the exception
ijl of a few words, and converses entirely in Italian. A lady, who was
ij f present and could speak in the language of the South, acted as inter-
jH| preter, and with her the medium has held most animated conversations,
| | her face glowing with pleasure, and the “spirit” again and again
| (| thanking the lady for coming and talking to him in his own tongue,
!|! and wishing all in the room could do the same. The “ spirit” described
i|| himself as a half-caste, working where everyone spoke Italian. He
| ( was much abused, and either ran away to an English vessel or was sold
| when eleven years age. The night after he was received on the English
| j ship he was greatly ill-treated, and thrown into the water and drowned.
||I He understands a little Spanish, and sings snatches of Italian airs and
|) I some Spanish national songs, which he said he learnt from the Spanish
}|j sailors when they wrere loading the ships. The Italian spoken by the
| (i medium was said to be very good, and whilst entranced by this “spirit,”
l|| Miss Ball was apparently unable to understand anything said to her in
|(| English, and on the contrary whilst controlled by English spirits and
|l| in a normal state was unable to understand a word of Italian.
1Whilst under another control, the medium spoke in the Lancashire
ij l dialect, and described herself as Jane Dixon, a girl working on the pit
|| brow, at Pearson’s colliery, at Ince, who met with an accident and died
|)| in consequence when fourteen years of age. She said her father was
Ijj still living at Ince. Another control was a Scotch lady, residing before
|)| her decease at Paisley, and in this character she gave a long oration,
|j| not very grammatical or connected, upon the condition of the spirit
Hi world.
| j| A fourth control was a man who said he used to be called “ Shuffling
I j| Joe.” He was troubled with a bad “ cawf,” which affected the medium ;
| i he also like “ Jane ” spoke the dialect. He said he lived at Doffcocker,
jji near Bolton, and in a long rambling talk said he used to be very bad
||j and “ nowt,” always drinking and knocking about. People tried to
I frighten him about “ th’owd chap,” and he really expected to see that
Ijl individual, but he was very much disappointed. There were many
Hi parsons too where he was, and they also were disappointed. He was
|j| a low spirit and was very much punished, seeing all the wickedness in the
ij| world, and wanting and not being able to join in it.
H| i'1 This is a brief description of some of the incidents of the siances held
|j| this week, and they admit of only two reasonable explanations. Either’
I j| the “ medium ” is, as asserted by a correspondent, a miserable impostor,
| j | and is making fools of not an inconsiderable number of shrewd Leigh
||j men and women, or the Spiritualists’ or some other similar theory must
j| be accepted as accounting for these at present inexplicable circumstances.
j| The medium has given an account of her life, and the confirmation or
ij| disproval of her statements will certainly follow inquiry.—Leigh
j) I Chronicle.
NEWCASTLE.
Since the resignation of Miss Wood, the Sunday evening seances at
Weirs-court have been abandoned, so as to relieve Miss Fairlamb, and
the evenings are devoted to meetings of an intellectual nature. That on
Sunday last was presided over by Mr. Mould, wdio read a selection
from Volney's History of Religions, after which Mr. Westgarth gave an
address in the unconscious trance state, endeavouring to show the
necessity of Spiritualists living a practical spiritual life, if they wished
the world to see that the phenomena and that which was behind, taught
something superior to the innumerable creeds of the day. A few
general remarks from those present, and some selections from Mr.
Waton on the harmonium, brought the evening to a close.
As Dr. Slade, the celebrated American medium, has long contem¬
plated visiting Europe, it is probable that the breaking up of the St.
Petersburg Committee will not prevent him from crossing the Atlantic,
though he may change the time originally decided upon, namely,
September.
Apeil 28, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
111
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
Opened on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, ' by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums/also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. iL by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychicl Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality, of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium nght. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
ana Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.i
600 pp. Cloth 10s. od.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Cd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric anhnals [were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opiniJu that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or. some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made;by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote ‘during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, lOs, fid.; cheap edition,
7». fid. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through,
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM1MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. I
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Cd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two- Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
. SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
mid Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s.,
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. T 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
.76
. 5 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 6 0
2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A wfcll-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .. .26
Keys of the Creeds ' . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms^.(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.n.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans.ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind,’; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by^James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 1016
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
L Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten: 4. Mr. Luther Colhy: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. Tile late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas B.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. PowelL Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s,
.V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apeil 28, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANHROPOLOGrY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritmlist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
opened on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists', but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly 'gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pour tray ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY AND Rich, London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
"DEAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
JL\j Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason-for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
The trapped medium | or, the two
. CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in theirjcvestigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6$d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, ‘Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brohtd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. . Cloth, (Is.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms thatthestrongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister for over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrammeled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
It contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism*
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr,
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
-All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 6 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Reflexionen aus der geister-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
In Two Vols., 8vo. cloth, price 21s.
A PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE ON THE
NATURE AND CONSTITUTION OF MAN. By
Georgb Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Vice-President of the Psy¬
chological Society and of the Anthropological Institute, and
author of “The Theory of the Arts,’’ “ Civilisation considered
as a Science,” &c. This work embraces a comprehensive and
complete survey of the nature and constitution of man
physical, moral, and intellectual, exhibiting moreover the
mutual connection and dependence of each branch. Topics
connected with the spiritual being, and the leading opinions
on this subject, including the nature, essence, properties, and
mode of operation, of the soul; the alliance between matter
and spirit; reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity
are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of our
intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution, mode
of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain Of the topics here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, phy¬
siology] and natural history, have been in correspondence
With, and have been consulted by the author, by several of
whom notes of much interest and value, on different important
controverted points, have been contributed.
London: G. Bell & Sons, York-street, Oovent-garden. 1876.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION. ZBJIif
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive SUBJECTS.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES R1GG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE:
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A., 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq.,119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W.
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq., M ,D., 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley,Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westbourne-
park.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4, Castledine road, Anerly, S.E.
W. J. Williams, Esq., Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Subscriptions' will be received and duly acknowledged by
the Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square,
South Kensington; or by the Hon. Secretary, A. Joy, Esq.,
Junior United Service Club, St. James’s, S.W.
rpHE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE H OMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenseum. “ It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
fPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
J. PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—E. W. Allen, 11, Avo
Maria-lane, Paternoster-row, E.O.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
Ihe above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by,'Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew- above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
