A F^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREf£ Of THE 3CIEfGE /ND ETHIC3 OF 3PIfITU/JJJSM.
No. 29.—(VOL. IL, No. 1.) LONDON : MONDAY, JANUARY 15, 1872.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER.
This being the first number of the second volume of
the Spiritualist, we desire to say a few words about the
past. The volume just finished contains a history of
the progress of Modern Spiritualism in Great Britain
during the years 1870 and 1871: So much space has
been given in that volume to reports of seances, meet¬
ings, and the passing events of each month, that a con¬
clusion might be drawn that ‘too much attention has
been paid to' the phenomenal aspects of the subject, and
too little to the teachings of Spiritualism and the scien¬
tific laws which govern the phenomena. But in dealing
with a new subject respecting which we are densely
ignorant, the scientific method of procedure is to collect
a vast mass of facts first, without any preconceived bias
or hypotheses at all, and. afterwards to draw conclusions
which cannot easily be shaken, from the evidence thus
collected. The result of two or three years of hard
work in carefully observing the phenomena, is that we
7j<m-found out some of the general principles which
' govern ‘them, and these results, we hope to publish
, before long.
;|i. As to the teachings of Spiritualism, the spirit world
‘ is full of busy active life, and differences of Opinion are
J | as prevalent in the next world as in this one. Most
j, Spiritualists prefer those communications which, har-
monise- with their own*ideas. of truth ; hence a Roman
Catholic will say that Spiritualism especially supports
Ms : own .tlfSit
and so b'n; There are%>meffew. points, ho$;evdr,
J' ■$$$. wlfieh all ’Spiritualists are tolepbly well -agnajid*,
-K.such, .for.'iii^tancejj ae. th&iffpllo win^:^thakvt]|liFe,i{K no
1 ^h^theris-no re$nreection-nf
sfrinah beiti^begi^^ijs^lfe
direcfff'aTter bodOy death ; .that the state of paah after4
death is one of eternal p|<jtgression'‘ .that'-jve oi|r,
educational and spiritiiar defects , and virtues' with us
into the next world ; that there, as here, we can rise
higher by our own exertions and hard work only;;: and
that deeds rather than words influence the happiness or
. misery of the individual at the beginning of his career
upon the next plane of existence. |
Unless we had recorded seances and meetings as they
occurred," the facts would have been'lost for ever.
Hence we seized them at the moment and put them on
record, leaving our readers to do their own thinking
about them, and to form their own conclusions or specu¬
lations. An article merely embodies the opinions of
one man, so while our space is so limited, we have
deemed -it best to act the part of chronicler rather than
that of teacher.
There has been a steady unbroken rise in the circu¬
lation of this journal from the first. None of the
journals connected with Spiritualism clear their ex¬
penses, though; most of them have been in existence
for many years. The other journals have-*been sup¬
ported by very heavy subscriptions from Spiritualists,
but we have preferred not to be a burden to the move¬
ment. ‘ We should, therefore, be much obliged if our
readers would do what they can in taking one or more
extra copies per month for distribution, or deposition in
public reading rooms, or for the information of local
newspapers. The Spiritualist will be published more
frequently at no very distant date ; we might bring it
out at shorter intervals now, but think it more judicious
to wait a little in order that the money loss, the care,
and the work which the act would involve may not be
unreasonably heavy.
' So far as we know, the Spiritualist and its readers
have journeyed along very pleasantly together from the
first, with no differences worth mentioning. We trust
that all our deficiencies will be overlooked in a kindly
manner, and conclude in the usual way, by wishing all
the readers of these lines “ A Happy New Year.”
Spiritual Manifestation's in Mr. Henry Ward
Beecher’s Church.—Mr. Beecher is the Spurgeon of New
York, and for several Sundays in succession spiritual mani¬
festations took place there before the whole audience.
Attempts were made to hush up what was considered a
scandal, but accounts of the circumstances found their way
into many papers. The New York Herald of November 27th,
1871, has a column and a half on the subject. There were
some mediums among the reporters, and the table walked
about before Mr. Beecher without being touched; at times
rapping noises were heard. The thing attracted so much
attention, that the reporters decided at last not to sit at the
table at all; the spirits then ceased their manifestations.
I THE SYSTEMATIC APPEARANCE OF SPIRITS
AT SEANCES.
The latest numbers of tbe American spiritual
periodicals contain some very startling news as to tbe
progress the spirits are making in that country, in the
materialising of their bodies at seances, so as to be seen
by all the persons present, and to be recognised by their
friends. Such cases have occurred now and then at
rare intervals in England. How Mr. S. C. Hall and a
party of friends saw his departed sister standing before
them, so real that she might have been photographed, is
told in the first number of the Spiritualist. There are
other cases in the report of the Dialectical Com¬
mittee. In a back number of the Spiritualist is an
account of how spirits attempted to appear systema¬
tically before public audiences;;: and succeeded for a
short time; they had to give it up, because the mani¬
festation drew too much vitality from the medium. In
the materialising of the hands of spirits, a nlanifesta-
tion now so common in London, the medium is exhausted
Very much, since the matteris drawn in some way from
the organism of mediums, and a little' sometimes
from the other persons present,; it exhausts them very
much more when heads are materialised. The- spirits
sometimes materialise portions of their bodies unex¬
pectedly, to the sitters, and in the light; but the best
physical conditions are perfect darkness while the hands
or, heads are being formed,, and then, a light suddenly
struck when the spirits ar6 ready, and give the signal,
gjgpmost convenient mode of supplying these conditions,
ij3 to put the medium in a dark cabinet with an opening
.‘ne&f Hw^-top, covered-.by a curtain, so that when the
spiriteLare ready, they^emselves can "pull aside’’ the
cuftMfi; Aft d^thr^tj^eir hSMs or Leads into view. No
medium in whose presence spirit hands are formed
should be without such a cabinet.- The Obser^crg,.of
course^sit outside the cabinet ii»7tho lighhuAph '• , *
Tbe nevy manifestations whMbrftre^owroa^idngJi'^it
excitement among American Spiritualists ocCur-^tne
house of Mr. Morris Keeler,^ Moravia, 'Cayixg'a ’County;
N.Yi ■ The medium is Mrs. Andrews. .Some of the
manifestations have been described in the New York
Sun, a daily paper not connected with Spiritualism, but
whose editor sent a special correspondent there. The
report published by the Sun is many" columns long,
and clothed in sensational language. The Banner of
Light, the leading American spiritual newspaper, con¬
tains one report by its editor, and others from various
correspondents, some of whom are of the highest
reliability. All the accounts agree entirely as to the
reality of the facts. The best account, which we select
because it contains the largest amount of information in
the fewest words, was written for the Banner of Light
by a New York physician, who has recently published
a little book on the “ Claims of Spiritualism” but, like
many other persons afraid of popular clamour, he with¬
holds his name. Notwithstanding this drawback, we
select his letter, because all the leading characteristics
of the phenomena he describes are substantiated by
the report in the New York Sun, and by the long
accounts in the American spiritual periodicals written
by other witnesses. We therefore give the narrative
of the physician in full, as published in the Banner of
Light of October 14th, 1871, after which we add a few
of the statements of the other witnesses :—
H Brooklyn, Sept. 28th, 1871.
“Dear Sir,—Yours of the 29th is at hand, and, as I have
a few,hours leisure, I will answer your letter, at once, and do
so with much pleasure, as I feel it a duty to add .my testimony
to that of others in making known the wonderful proofs of
spiritual intercourse and presence which are daily being given
through Mrs. Andrews, at Moravia, Cayuga County, N.Y.
“Having seen a letter from a gentleman w;ho had just
made a visit to this medium, in which some remarkable occur¬
rences were related, I determined to visit her myself, and
arrived at Moravia, June 6tb, 1871. I found myself in a
plain farmhouse, half-a-mile from the town, with my host
and hostess, a plain farmer and his wife, both inured to hard
work, with no children, and the medium, now a married
woman, with three young children, residing in the town.
Her husband is a steady, uneducated working man.
! “As soon as I arrived, my host, Mr. Keeler, sent for Mrs.
Andrews ; and when she arrived I was introduced to a woman
about twenty-eight years of age, with large pale blue eyes,
fringed with long black lashes, good features, with a modest,
serious look. She expressed her willingness to give me a
stance, and I was conducted to an upper room, which was
dedicated to spiritual manifestations. This room was fur¬
nished with half-a-dozen chairs and a piano. One side was
partitioned off with plain boards enclosing a space the
length of that side of the room, by perhaps five feet in depth.
I asked permission to inspect the room, and also the portion
enclosed, which was freely granted. After examining every¬
thing in and about the main room, I entered the partitioned
space or cabinet, which was intensely dark, every crevice
being covered with newspapers. I then took a bright coal-oil
lamp, and carefully inspected every inch of wall, partition.
Ceiling, and floor, using my eyes, fingers, and knife, and con¬
tinued this examination alone until I became satisfied, when
I left the cabinet.
“At that seance there were present Mr. and Mrs. Keeler,
Mr. and Mrs. H., another gentleman and myself—all but the
former two being visitors, like myself. We were seated in a
semi-circle facing the cabinet, in the middle of the partition
of which was a square opening, perhaps fourteen inches in
diameter, covered by a black cloth curtain suspended from
the inside. The medium entered the cabinet by a door at¬
one end, and seated herself on a chair placed in the corner.
The door was then secured with two buttons by Mr. Keeler.
The coal-oil lamp was placed in a corner of the main room
upon the piano, and nearly in contact with the partition, and
a screen placed before the lamp, so that the audience was in
the shadow; but the full glare of the light.was thrown side¬
ways upon the partition, rendering every part of this latter
luminous, so that any object which projected from the little
opening, or window, caught the full effect of the lamp.
I “ I have been thus particular in the description of the-
Arrangements of the rooms, &c., because much depends upon
a proper understanding of the surroundings in these seances ;
but space will-not permit me to be equally specific.in relating'
what there occurred, as my notes of my seances during this and
my subsequent visit would, if copied, fill perhaps four sides of
the Banner of Lirjht. I shall, therefore, only refer'to a few
points of interest, among the many there recorded.
“ I will digress once more, and say thaf'upon-my first visit
no soul in that part of the country’ had any knowledge of me;
that I had purposely left my card-case at home ; that I an¬
nounced myself as a person desirous of witnessing the phe¬
nomena through the medium—gave no name—and that not a
enlarged finger ends and knuckles, and^ bearing -little resem-
-blance to the hand exhibited. The hand then vanished, and
was followed by the appearance of five little hands ranged
along and above the lower border of the opening, every finger
in motion, the full hands to the wrists plainly in view, and in
addition two tiny fingers peeping from the upper corner,
representing the sixth hand. The hands differed in size, from
those of an’ infant to those of a child four, years old. These
hands, like the arm previously seen, were, if possible, more-
plainly visible than my own in strong light. The fingers
seemed to be more particularly directed toward me, and upon
my asking if they were those of my children, the hands were
all directed'toward me with a waving motion. I will here
add that six of my children have passed from earth-life, rang¬
ing in age from six weeks to four years.
“ After this appeared the face of a man of dark complexion
and with full whiskers—at the time I did not recognise him—
also the face of a woman not so clearly seen.
“ At the next seance an arm appeared, pointing .to the
gentleman present, which was recognised by him. Then the
same arm which had appeared to me before, again appeared.
Upon-one of the fingers was a plain black ring. I inquired
where she got the ring, when she pointed with an unsteady
motion to me, and upon my asking' if my son gave it to her,
she twirled her fingers rapidly as answering yes. Here the
medium in a low voice, inquired whether we did not hear her
speaking, and upon our answering no, she said, ‘The spirit-
tried to talk, but I only heard the name Charley.’ I have a
son of that name, who some years since amused himself in-
cutting rings out of rubber buttons and presenting them to-
different members of the family, two of which are yet worn
by the sisters of the spirit whose arm was visible; one also
was presented to her while living.
“ At this seance a number of spirit voices were heard
addressing different members of the circle;- most of them
.were husky and somewhat unnatural, but one or two were-
entirely natural.
“ At another seance the same female arm again appeared,
the fingers nearly covered with rings studded with precious
stones, and a golden bracelet on the wrist, also set with
diamonds and other stones, all flashing and sparkling equal to-
anything in our life. I asked if that was her hand as she
decorated it in earth-life, when immediately the hand dis¬
appeared and reappeared with the plain black ring'as seen
before. I then inquired if the jewelled hand was as she had it
now decorated, when the hand so jewelled again was presented
and waved three times in reply.
“At my last sitting during this visit I proposed that we-
should have a dark seance, and the medium, another lady, and
myself entered the room and seated ourselves—the lady and
myself side by side, and the medium opposite to and apart
from us perhaps six feet. In a few minutes the floor trembled
2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1872.
home.’ I replied, ‘ Thank you—now farewell,’ when nume¬
rous raps were heard, and we left without completing our last
sitting.
“ I wish here to say that the appearance of the faces, arms
and hands was as real as any flesh and blood borne about by
mortals—no mistines's, nothing ethereal about it, while a fall
glow of light brought them out with strong effect.
“ In closing, it is also proper to say, what should have been
stated before, viz., that the medium is of poor Irish parentage;
at the age of twelve years was taken into the family of Mr.
Keeler, to assist in the work of the farm, which mode of life
she continued until her marriage ; that her mediumistic
powers were first observed at the age of fourteen years, and
from that time to the present they have steadily increased in
strength, until now, as I and many others believe, she is
unequalled in assisting that class of manifestations which are
produced in her presence.” “ C.”
Mrs. H. F. M. Brown, a lady who has publicly
worked actively in the cause of Spiritualism in America
for many years, publishes, in the Banner of Light of
Oct. 14th, 1871, her account of what she saw at Mr.
Feeler’s of the mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, as
follows:—
“ Dear Sir,—I make haste to redeem my promise in regard
to the manifestations. I do not need to explain the situation
of the room, or the manner of obtaining the communications.
You have been there, and know.
“ My first sitting was with the Syracuse party. We saw
floating lights ; heard raps ; voices joined in the singing, and
a few faces were seen, but too indistinct to be recognised.
“ At the next sitting we all saw faces and forms very dis¬
tinctly. An old lady, whose hair was white as wool, came to
the window and bowed to me. I did not know her, but a
voice, calling me by name, said, ‘ That is your grandmother. ’
Another spirit, who seemed to know all my goings and doings,
spoke to me of things 'personal. The medium—in fact, no one
in the room—knew anything of me beyond my name.
“ A gentleman at my side was addressed by a spirit. We
heard the words distinctly, but the face we could not see.
Like another doubting Thomas, he wanted a sign.
“ | What will you have?’ was asked.
“ ‘ Bring the cameo pin.’
“ Soon a fair girlish hand was outreached, holding a cameo
pin.
“ ‘ It is Mary! I am satisfied,’ was the gentleman’s remark.
“ At the third sitting the voices were low and the faces very
indistinct.
“At the fourth the curtain was raised, and spirits stood
before us just as real as in life. Among them came my grand¬
father, Dr. John Hall. He looked me in the face, bowed, and
turned about, and walked away, Then Dr. Loomis, an old
friend, stood before me. In wonder I cried out, * Why, Gilbert,
is that you?’ He put out his hand, and then, in a clear, dis¬
tinct voice, said, ‘ Isn’t it heavenly to be able thus to speak?’
With the last word the speaker faded from sight. Dr. Loomis,
■ though young, wore glasses in life, and came to me spectacled
yesterday. A spirit came to a gentleman, and, calling him by
name, said, ‘ I thank you, sir, heartily, for helping me and my
family when we were in need ! ’ The person and the facts
were remembered by the gentleman. We heard the German
language spoken by a spirit. Mrs. C. said, ‘ The Germans are
lovers of flowers. Will they not bring us some ?’ A hand was
thrust out holding roses and pinks. Water was dashed in our
faces and over our clothing. But there was no water in the
room, and no flowers. Angel voices have often joined in the
singing. One voice, clear and strong, sang every word of
‘ Old John Brown’s soul is marching on.’ Sceptics may ask
was it not one of us singing ? No; no such singer belongs to
our company.
“ Mrs. R.’s husband came, took her by the hand, and said in
soft tones, ‘ Elizabeth, I am not unmindful of our bridal day.
You will be my bride again in this beautiful land.’ Mrs. It.
had not till then remembered that this was the anniversary of
their bridal day. No one besides them could have known the
fact.
“ Mrs. G. and her little boy came to-day to see husband and
father. Mr. G. came and told the loved ones of his care, love
and hopes regarding them. Master Charlie, in the full joy of
his young heart, cried out, * I can see my father; he knows
me too 1 ’
“ This morning I sat with two ladies—sat between them.
A young man came to Mrs. C. and said, * My own dear mother,
I am so glad to see you 1 You will not forget the orphans —
the poor, the homeless—will you, mother ?’ A young woman
came to Mrs. W. and said, ‘ I am Olivia, your sister, and I am
so glad of ■ this opportunity of speaking.’ Both ladies were
widows ; both had loving words from their husbands. A spirit
stood behind me, with both hands on my head. At the same
time my sister Mary put her hand in mine and said, ‘ You have
here your sister Mary. I have been with you in your years of
shadow and sunshine.’ A voice called out to me and said,
‘ Mrs. Brown, I have a favour to ask of you. My name is
Roger Burkley. I want you to write to the Banner of Light,
and say that Mr. Taylor, of Toronto, Canada, wanted me to
communicate through the Banner circle. I have been there,
but the crowd was so great that my chance was slim. Tell
Mr. Taylor that some of the communications were mine, others
were not.’ I know nothing of these persons; but trust that
Mr. Burkley’s words will reach his friend.
I shall remain a few days longer, and may obtain other
tests of spirit power. I am fully convinced that the windows
of heaven are wide open, but the why and how I do not know.
“ Truly, H. F. M. Brown.”
We now cull some choice extracts from the report of
the special correspondent of the New York Daily Sun,
published Sept. 29th, 1871. The reporter, after de¬
scribing the village of Moravia, at the head of Owasco
Lake, and eighteen miles south of Auburn, says :—
“ In Moravia the spirits are brought face to face with all
seekers, whether- believers or sceptics, and the long-time
unused voice again gives utterance to the ears of all who
desire to hear whatsoever the spirit hath to say. Black spirits
and white, good spirits and bad, the ghost of the untutored
savage, as well as the immortal part of the greatest states¬
men of all times, here come unbidden, habilitated afresh
seemingly with flesh and blood, to converse with mortals.
Nor time nor season, daylight nor darkness, disturbs the com¬
ing, or interferes with the utterances of these strange visitors
from another world.”
He thus describes Mr. Keeler :—
County, owning and occupying one of the best farms in that
county, situated in the immediate suburbs of the village of
Moravia. His father lived there before him, and he has
several brothers and other relations in the immediate vicinity.
Besides cultivating his own farm on the hills overlooking the
village, and the beautiful Owasco Valley, Mr. Keeler has
another farm in the middle of the plain below. He is also a
stockholder in the National Bank of Moravia, a stockholder
in the Southern Central Railroad, a quarter owner of the most
extensive and valuable business block in the village, with
other smaller properties scattered about. He is a plain,
coarse, ignorant, asthmatic man of about sixty years of age,
and probably two hundred pounds weight. He is as garrulous
as he is ignorant, and as clumsy as an ox. He became in¬
terested in Spiritualism twenty years ago, since which time
his house has been the headquarters of all the believers of
that school for miles around. On Sundays especially they
crowded upon his hospitality, coming on foot and in wagons,
relying on Mr. Keeler for forage for their animals as well as
food for themselves, until at last his friends became alarmed
lest he should be eaten out of house and home and become a
burden upon them.”
He afterwards describes Mrs. Keeler and Mrs.
Andrews, who is a servant in the house, and whose
mediumship has been developing for some years. He
fully describes the house and seance room, and gives an
engraved ground-plan of the latter. He remained in
the village longer than he at first intended, and while
some seances were going on, he examined the exterior
as well as the interior of the seance room. Mr. Keeler
told him how the first spirit appeared at the window of
the cabinet made according to spirit instructions, as
follows :—
“ Suddenly the black curtain over the aperture in the parti¬
tion was observed to move, as if an effort was being made to
raise it, and Mary Andrews cried out from within the cabinet,
as if in great terror—
“ ‘ There’s a man in here! Let me out! Let me out
quick!’
“Mr. Keeler, however, calmed her fears by assuring her
that there could possibly be no man there, but that what she
saw must be a spirit; and urged her to remain quiet, and see
what wonders would be performed.
“ After this interruption another period of silence ensued,
when the agitation of the curtain was renewed, lasting for a
moment or two, when a voice came from the opening, uttering
these words—
“ ‘ Too much light! Spirits can’t stand the pressure !’
“Accepting the intimation conveyed by the words, Mr.
Keeler lowered the blaze of the lamp until it shed but a
glimmer of light in the gloomy apartment. Then followed
another period of patient waiting and watching, when sud¬
denly a copper-coloured hand was thrust out from beneath
the curtain, with the index finger extended, pointed first at
Mr. Keeler, then at the lamp, and then at the end of the
piano nearest the partition. This pantomime was easily
translated, and Mr. Keeler proceeded to remove the lamp
from its position in front of the aperture to the place indi¬
cated on the piano; the effect of which was to cause the
light to shine obliquely across the opening, without penetrat¬
ing it. This arrangement seemed to be satisfactory to the
spirits, who indicated their pleasure by sundry war-whoops
and grunting ‘ughs,’ after the traditional savage fashion.
Pretty soon the black curtain rose completely from the aper¬
ture, and a face presented itself at the opening. It was an
unmistakeable Indian face, with high cheek-bones, dusky hue,
and all the usual characteristics. When the astonishment
that the apparition produced had subsided into an eager
waiting for what was to follow, the lips of the apparition
moved, and a voice proceeding from them pronounced these
profound words—
“ ‘ Me big spirit! Me boss here ! Plenty pale-faces come
see big spirit! Big spirit make everybody believe ! Ugh !’
“ And the big spirit disappeared again into the darkness, and
the curtain fell. Then there was stillness again for a brief
period, interrupted only at last by a terrific shriek from the
imprisoned medium, followed by a crash as she dashed the
rude door away, and came tumbling out into the room, more
dead than alive with fright. On being questioned regarding
the cause of her alarm, she replied that a cold, clammy hand
was placed on her face, and she wouldn’t stand that from the
spirits or from anybody else. Of course this little episode
terminated that particular seance, and the company broke up,
wondering greatly at the things they had seen and heard.”
The reporter of the Sun then describes the first seance
he witnessed there, and after telling how a face several
times appeared near the opening, but it could not be
seen distinctly, he says :—
“As it again withdrew, the whole company united in a
request that the spirit show himself more plainly. The
obliging old fellow made the effort. Drawing the curtain
aside he thrust his face quite through the opening, until the
light of the lamp fell upon its side. It was a venerable look¬
ing face, not at all ghost-like or repulsive. It looked some¬
thing like William Cullen Bryant. The head was covered
with snowy white hair, quite thick and long. It had full
whiskers of equal whiteness, and a heavy moustache that
curled under like a heavy roll of hair. It was the face of a
voiceless spirit, and withdrew itself as quick as seen.
“ While the company was urging the venerable spirit to
give his name the curtain again rose, this time from the left-
hand corner, and an entirely different face appeared. This
was the face of a man certainly fifty years of age, with iron-
gray hair and whiskers, but no moustache. He wore gold
spectacles. He was a very familiar spirit, showing himself
with great freedom ; but he refused to talk, contenting him¬
self with playing bo-peep with, the audience for about five
minutes, and then withdrawing absolutely. While the com¬
pany sat waiting for his reappearance, or for some other
development, a hand came out of the aperture, and, pointing
first at Keeler, and then at the cabinet, quickly withdrew.
This pantomime was readily translated by Keeler as the end
of the performance. It meant that he was to open the door
and let the medium out, which he did, and the company broke
up. As soon as the medium came out the reporter again
entered the cabinet, and examined it more closely than before,
but failed to discover any traps or machinery, or any means of
ingress save through the door or by the windows.”
He thus describes another seance :—
strongly, and violent concussions were heard on the cabinet
partition. This was followed by numerous spirit-lights, and
one of these, which approached me, expanded into the form of
a human face, but not distinct. Soon I saw a spirit-form
approaching me, then numerous other forms, until the room
appeared full of them in gentle gliding motion. They were
nearly or quite as numerous and close together as people in
the aisle of a church upon dismissal. One form became so
distinct that I saw the body from the shoulders to the waist,
as clearly as that of any person in earth-life. It was that of
a female dressed in a white dress, every fold and plait of
which was visible, and had it remained a minute more, I could
have distinguished the texture and threads of the material.
Soon the lady next me said the spirits were raising her left
arm, and we all saw an infant form placed upon her arm,
while another full sized form stood between the lady and
myself, inclining forwards, and appeared to be the one
arranging the baby form in the lady’s arms.
“ Many tests of recognition were given, mostly of a private
nature, which cannot with propriety be here given.
“ August 30,1871,1 again visited the same medium in com¬
pany with my wife. The same arm again appeared, and
shortly after the face of the same person, which we recog¬
nised to be that of a deceased sister of my wife. This face
repeatedly appeared during our visit. She addressed my wife
by name, and we held conversation with her as freely as when
she was in earth-life. These conversations referred to rela¬
tives and things, showing familiarity with our domestic affairs.
My only brother, deceased some thirty years since, appeared.
My wife immediately recognised him by his resemblance to
me. He spoke of various relatives now in spirit-life. I in¬
quired if my father were present ? when a hand was laid upon
my head, the fingers tapping my forehead three times. Two
arms were thrust out of the opening, with the palms of the
hands placed together, and upon my asking if these were G ’s
arms, the hands were clapped in a lively manner, and upon
Mr. Keeler saying, 1 That is your daughter,’ C said, ‘ No,
I am her sister.’ Soon a strong masculine voice said through
the opening, ‘ How do, D ? I come to see you and let you
know I come.’ I recognised the voice, but said, ‘ Who is’that
speaking ?’ when he continued, ‘ Why, you ought to know
Owasso.’ I inquired how Dr. Slade was ? and he answered,
‘ Oh, he is some better.’ Then addressing my wife by name,
he added, i E , I will fix you some more medicine at
Dr. Slade’s when you come back.’ 1 inquired whether this
place was not a favourable place for spirit manifestations?
when he answered, ‘ Yes, this is a good place for these things,
but people should go to my Dr. Slade for medicine.’ I then
asked if he would present my compliments to Dr. Slade, and
tell him to remember my having done so when I next saw him.
He answered, ‘ Yes, I will tell him.’ I then asked if many of
our friends were there, and he said, ‘ I guess you’d think so if
you saw the crowds—no room for me here.’ Bidding us good-
by, and adding that the influence was used up, he left.
“ I have omitted saying that, previous to my leaving New
York for Moravia, I called upon Dr. Slade and requested
Owasso to manifest himself to us there; and it is proper to
state here that soon after my return I again visited Dr. Slade
and immediately inquired whether any message had been re¬
ceived from me. His answer was, ‘ Yes ; Owasso brought one
from you from Moravia; but he was unable to give your exact
words, but he made me understand that you had sent a
message, and that I was to remember the fact when you
returned.’
“ At another seance two muscular arms and hands—the
arms clothed in shirt sleeves—were thrust through the opening
toward Mr. J , and, upon his naming various relatives,
when he said ‘father,’ the hands were clapped ; then one arm
was thrust out, and upon his asking if that was his father’s,
also, the hand was raised and slapped three times vigorously
upon the partition above the opening. The board partition
trembled and shook as if struck by the hands of a strong man.
After this two arms appeared like those of a young man, and
upon Mr. J asking if his brother was present, a finger
pointed toward me. I asked if he would try and show his
face, and, after a little while, we saw the curtain move and
the face of a young man appeared. We suspected it was our
oldest son deceased, and, upon my asking if it was him, he
nodded three times. He died about twenty years since, at the
age of four years, so it was impossible to recognise him, but
he certainly possessed certain characteristics of feature which
were peculiar to our son.
“My wife’s sister, C , again appeared, apparently for
the purpose of introducing another spirit, for immediately
after her appearance, and by her side, became visible the face
and head of an elderly lady wearing a close cap and spectacles.
Both faces were visible at the same moment, but in another
minute the face of C disappeared, when my wife said to
me, ‘ Why, that is your mother 1 ” when she bowed in reply,
and said, ‘ Bless God, my son, that we are able to meet in this
manner.’ Before my wife had remarked that she recognised
her, 1 had done so, as the resemblance was perfect. My wife
here asked if our children were with her, and she replied,
‘ Yes ; and it has been far happier for them than you could
have made their lives on earth.’ My wife then asked if she
had any message for her children on earth, when she answered,
* No; my children are not capable at present of receiving these
truths ; the time is coming when they will see.’ After further
conversation, she continued, f God bless you ! I have not
power to speak any more. Farewell.’ She then disappeared.
“ On the last day of our visit my wife and self were con¬
versing upon these subjects in our own room, with the door
closed, when she said she wondered whether her aunt would
come to us. In a jocular way I replied, ‘ No ; she is too much
occupied in the conventicle above, singing psalms, and, be¬
sides, she would consider it wicked to dabble in such matters.’
We thought no more of it, and in about an hour thereafter
took our seats for another seance. After several manifesta¬
tions, a face appeared with side curls and marked features,
which we both at once recognised as our aunt. I said, ‘Auntie,
is that you ? ’ when she nodded her head and at the same time
thrust forward just within the aperture a small book, which
might either be a Bible or hymn-book. She soon disappeared.
She had been very devout in this life, and we strongly sus¬
pected that she had obtained knowledge of my humorous
remark, and had come to convince us that she was not so much
occupied in religious observances but that she could find time
to improve this opportunity of making herself visible to us.
“ Upon the last day of our visit we had had three successful
seances; and as we had yet an hour to spare, we prevailed
upon the medium to favour us with another sitting, but after
half an hour’s trial without result, a single finger appeared,
pointing toward Mr. Keeler, then toward the door. This we
knew to be the usual signal for Mr. Keeler to release the
medium, and that the seance was terminated. I inquired if
the influence was exhausted, and the raps answered ‘ yes.’ A
voice then said, | Some of us will accompany you to your
“ Mr. Morris Keeler, the proprietor of the house in which
the phenomenon occurs, is a forehanded farmer of Cayuga
“ In this circle was a gentleman from Syracuse, and, judg¬
ing from his conversation, evidently an official of some sort.
Jan. 15, 1872.
THE S PIE IT UAL IS T.
3
When the show commenced a face was presented that was
entirely different from any the reporter had previously seen.'
This face the Syracuse gentleman recognised as that of a man
named Butler, who had been murdered a few weeks previously
in that city. To make the recognition complete the Syracuse
gentleman asked the apparition to show the side of his head.
The side view was given, disclosing a horrid gash bn and back
of the temple, from which the blood was apparently stream¬
ing. This was considered satisfactory evidence of identity,
the Syracusan pronouncing the wound precisely such a one as
Butler had received. The ghost was then asked by the gen¬
tleman if the party in arrest was the murderer. The mur¬
dered ghost promptly responded, ‘ Yes.’
“ After this the face of a very pretty little girl appeared ;
but as it was not recognised it was withdrawn. Then ap¬
peared a most lovely, though strangely sad, female face,
apparently of a lady just verging on womanhood. The fea¬
tures were all fully developed, and were exquisitely beautiful.
The eyes were large and lustrous; the nose a full Grecian ;
the mouth symmetrical and tempting. The complexion was
not that of a corpse, though it was wonderfully clear, while
the whole expression of the face was one of extreme sadness.
The apparition excited the liveliest sensations among the
beholders, and all leaned forward to inspect it closer. It
appeared several times, at each appearance coming further
into the light, until all had satisfied themselves of the reality
of the vision. Then it was asked to give its name. The lips
moved as if attempting to pronounce a name, but no sound
came from them. Again and again it appeared, at each ap¬
pearance renewing the effort to speak. Finally a whisper
was heard, and all ears were bent to catch it. The whisper
was repeated a little louder, and finally so loud that all heard
it distinctly and understood it alike. It was a name familiar
to the reporter and sacred to him, though the face was cer¬
tainly not familiar, and, though not wholly dissimilar, could
not be that of the lady named.”
At another sitting:—
“ First of all, the face of a middle-aged man—a new face—
was presented. This was followed by a hand, apparently grasp¬
ing something, and moving back and forth across the opening.
While this pantomime was enacting, the medium announced,
from within the cabinet, that she could discern something
bright in the spirit’s hand, and that he was drawing it across
his throat. On closer inspection this was seen to be the case
—the man or spirit was apparently cutting his throat. The
question was then asked who of the company had lost a friend
by suicide, but no one responded. While endeavouring to
find out for which particular one of the witnesses this mani¬
festation was intended, a hand was thrust out, and with ex¬
tended finger pointed in the direction of the reporter and the
gentleman who accompanied him. As the Moravia gentle¬
man seemed most clearly indicated, the company unanimously
decided it must mean him. In order to be certain, he asked
the question if this exhibition was intended for him. In
response the hand reappeared and pointed directly at the
reporter.
“ ‘ Is this pantomime for my edification V the reporter
asked.
“ Thereupon a great muscular arm was thrust out, away up
to the shoulder, and with clenched fist gave three powerful
blows on the partition above the opening, This was an
unmistakeable arm, one of unusual length even for a large
man. It was clad in white, the material being gathered at the
wrist on to a narrow band, which was buttoned or otherwise
fastened.
“ ‘ Is the tragedy you are representing one in which I am
interested ? ’ asked the reporter, anxious to solve the riddle.
In reply a hand appeared and waved an affirmative answer.
“ ‘ Does it relate to any relative of mine ?’
“ A negative reply was received by the same means.
“ ‘ Does it relate to any friend of mine ?’
“ The negative reply was repeated.
“ ‘ Is it an affair in which I have been professionally in¬
terested ?’
“ The same hand waved an affirmative.
“ ‘ Has it anything to do with the Nathan murder V
“ A negative reply was received.
“ ‘ Has it any connection with the Alice Bowlsby case V
“ Another negative reply.
“ ‘ Is it in the case of a male or female V
“ Here the reporter was reminded by the Spiritualists who
were present that if he asked a double question the spirits
could not answer it. He then modified his question.
“ ‘ Does the manifestation relate to a man?’
“ A negative reply.
“ ‘ Then it must be a female V
“ At this a delicate hand appeared, holding a handkerchief
of surprising whiteness, and, with every indication of glad¬
ness, portrayed by the rapid and emphatic manner in which
she waved the signal, replied affirmatively.
“ The reporter asked for further explanation, confessing his
inability to imagine what the pantomime meant. Some little
delay ensued, which Mr. Keeler said was caused by the spirits
preparing to explain the matter more clearly. Pretty soon
the curtain rose again, and the upper part of an arm, torn off
at the shoulder, was thrust out. This was followed by an un-
distinguishable object shown within the opening, but which,
by particular request was afterwards brought more into the
light, and proved to be a portion of a female bust, with a
mangled and bleeding shoulder, and the arm missing. Again
the curtain fell and rose again, when a corpse, arrayed in a
shroud of almost shining whiteness, lying on its back, and
seemingly borne upon a litter, was passed several times before
the opening. It was to the eye of the beholder the corpse of
a young lady of small figure. The features could not be seen
with sufficient distinctness to be described. This display
seemed to terminate the pantomimic tragedy enacted for the
benefit of the reporter, and left him as much mystified as
ever. Several faces were subsequently shown, at one time two
together. There were also four hands shown at once, three
full-sized, with fingers moving, coming up from below, and
the fourth that of a child coming down from above. Finally
a fifth hand, with the middle finger lacking, was shown, and
the performance was ended.
“ When the door was removed to let the medium out from the
cabinet, the reporter stood ready, with lamp in hand, to enter.
He noticed that Mrs. Andrews was dressed very plainly, with
a tight-fitting waist, and a skirt without hoops, hanging rather
closely to her person. He could, of course, make no more
searching examination of her. Within the cabinet nothing
could be discovered but the chair in which the medium had
sat, and the tin speaking trumpet. The fastenings to the
windows were perfect and secure. No trap-doors could be |
discovered anywhere. The paper pasted over the cracks in the
board partition was torn off in search of concealed wires, but
none could be found. It thus became manifest that, if decep¬
tion was practised, the medium performed it without the aid
of accomplices ; and if she practised this deception, how could
she conceal about her person all the masks, arms, hands, and
other paraphernalia essential to the varied performance that
had just been witnessed ? The reporter was reluctantly
compelled to confess himself baffled, and came away un¬
satisfied.”
Newspaper reports for the general public, about
Spiritual manifestations, usually contain remarks like
the above, lest the editor should be thought to be
“ a believer.”.
Spirits of both a high and a low order appeared
through Mrs. Andrews’s mediumship, and the reporter
thus describes one of the latter :—
“Several strange faces were presented, some male and
others female, but none that were recognised. Finally a face
appeared that resembled the gold-spectacled ghost of the morn¬
ing sitting, though without the spectacles. He was pressed to
give his name, and finally responded in a clear, bold tone,
“ Paine.” This left the company as much in a quandary as
ever, and the desire was expressed for his given name. Was
it Tom Paine, or what Paine was it ? The ghost evaded the
question, but continued to play hide-and-seek from behind
the curtain, occasionally as he showed himself indulging in
some fancied witticism. At length, as the company persisted
in knowing his full name, he changed his base and announced
it as 1 Solomon Saul Josephus.’
“ One of the New York ladies, who had evidently come
hoping to see and communicate with a departed friend of the
masculine fraternity, persisted in her inquiries if such a spirit
was present, and urgently requesting that he would show him¬
self. The witty ghost, Solomon Saul Josephus, however, per¬
sisted in monopolising the stage and time, and, in reply to
the lady’s enquiries, kindly told her that she had male friends
enough without calling for others from the spirit-world. One
of the gentlemen present wanted to get some information
about a female spirit, but was told that he ran too much after
the women. These and similar brilliant and profound obser¬
vations occupied the time of the spirit for over half-an-hour,
when he withdrew, and the performance was concluded. ”
This report in the New York Daily Sun is so long
that it would fill about a page of one of the London
daily papers; the circumstance that so much space is
.given to an official description of Spiritual manifesta¬
tions, shows that much more is known about Spiritualism
in New York, than in London.
The Banner of Light also contains descriptions of
seances at Mr. Heeler's, which were wholly or partially
failures, so that, like all other mediums, Mrs. Andrews
experiences variations in her medial powers.** In the
Banner of Nov. 25th is a letter from Mr. L. A. Bigelow,
of Boston, TJ.S., who, after describing some failures at
Mr. Keeler’s, adds:—
“ As the circle was small, we were within eight feet of the
opening, so that everything was visible. Very soon two deli¬
cate female hands, closed and then opened, as if in benedic¬
tion, appeared at the window before us ; a face was next seen,
but indistinctly. When asked whose friend it was, a finger
seemed to point to a lady at my left, and then move toward
me. I inquired if I were the one indicated, whereupon the
whole hand was shown and shaken, seemingly gratified. I
requested the face to come more into the light. It did so, but
not far enough to enable me to distinguish it clearly. I then
said, ‘ Please present yourself fully in the aperture,’ when I
most plainly saw a man’s face, with grey whiskers, gold spec¬
tacles, and bald head. I recognised it beyond question as
that of my father-in-law, the late Otis Tufts, of this city, and
so remarked aloud. It bowed as if to give assent, and dis¬
appeared. I endeavoured to recall it, that it might speak to
me, but without avail.
“ The curtain rose again, and a handsome male face, with
clear complexion and black moustache, presented itself. The
mouth moved several times as if to speak, but no sound was
heard. In response to the question, * Whose kin are you ? ’
a hand pointed to one of the ladies, and when being desired to
come more plainly in sight it complied, and was identified as
her brother. Next, a lady’s face, apparently of middle age,
came in view. This was recognised as a sister by one of the
party, who said, ‘ If this is Susannah, will she please show the
side of her head, that I may see her hair ? ’ The head turned,
and displayed long curls as natural as in life. The lady ex¬
pressed herself as perfectly satisfied.
“ The face reappeared, and a voice said in a loud whisper,
‘ Why can you not throw off your old ideas, my dear sister ? ’
She responded, ‘ I have striven so to do.’ The voice replied,
‘ That is well. I have done so long since from necessity.’
“ This was audible to all, and the movement of the mouth
plainly visible. It was a reality beyond dispute.
“ Presently we beheld a feminine hand holding, evidently as
a mark of identity, what seemed to be a strawberry, but no
one recalled any knowledge of it. A stained handkerchief
was next seen. It was withdrawn, and returned with the
spots blood-red. Mrs. Andrews said, ‘ The spirit holding
this is in soldier’s garb. ’ It was then directed towards a
person who inquired if it were his brother killed in the
war, whereupon the handkerchief vibrated quickly and dis¬
appeared.
‘ ‘ Another form was dimly seen, but the curtain fell, and
the seance ended.
“ Enough was seen to convince me that had the medium
been in good condition, our experience would have been more
satisfactory, and in the adverse circumstances we could not
reasonably expect as much as we did witness.
“ I left with feelings of awe and astonishment. Some may
ask what the spirits resembled ? The faces wore, to my eye,
a rigid, stoical expression, very like a wax figure, no smile
illuming the countenance. I am informed they often do
appear joyous, expressing pleasure at being recognised, not
only in whispers, but in full tones as in life.
“ If there be anything other than a spiritual nature in what
I saw, then some one more accustomed to examine cause and
effect must explain. It is certain that Mrs. Andrews had not
the power to exhibit so many varied scenes, even had she the
desire so to do.
“No one present knew my name or address till after the
close of the stance.
“ How the head of Mr. Tufts could be produced minus his
wig (as no one outside his family ever saw him without it
during the space of forty years), the sequel will perhaps
explain.
“ On my return home, while detailing the facts to my
family, it was queried whether, at the next weekly sitting at
our house, the facts above stated would be confirmed by the
spirit of Mr. Tufts through the mediumship of Mrs. S. A.
Floyd, or her Indian control. I waited somewhat impatiently
for the day to arrive, but on that morning was unexpectedly
called out of town, and was therefore obliged to be absent
from the sitting, consequently sceptics cannot bring forward
the old ideas concerning psychology, &c., as the events of that
occasion will prove, confirmed by the evidence of four persons,
two of whom are not members of my household.
‘ ‘ Soon after the medium was influenced (by Hawinneha,
the Indian). My wife said, * 1 wish you would send for my
father, if not present.’ He, Hawinneha, at once replied,
‘ Tufts brave is here, but will not be able to control for
several days, being too much exhausted.’ She inquired the
cause of his fatigue, whereupon he gave one of his quizzical
looks, saying, ‘ When you catch Hawinneha, you’ll catch a
weasel.’ Mrs. Bigelow pretending not to comprehend his
meaning, asked an explanation. The Indian seemed a little
piqued, and changed the subject. After conversing for a
time on other matters, Mrs. B. said, ‘ Can you inform me
where my husband was last Friday?’ With another of his
queer, self-satisfied looks, he immediately exclaimed, 11 tried
to show myself, but Tufts’ brave said, “Give me your magne¬
tism, build me up; any Indian can represent himself as
Hawinneha, and Mr. B. will not know the difference; there
is hut one Otis Tufts, and I wish to present myself." ’
“ He stated that the spirit of Mr. T. was very nervous and
impatient, but finally manifested itself, and was identified by
Mr. B., and also remarked that Mr. T. wished to materialise
a wig, but the magnetism* was insufficient; thus explaining
[ why he showed himself without one, as before-mentioned. We
| considered this a most excellent test, and proof positive that
I was not deceived in what I saw at Moravia.
“As to the facts being impossible, because they do not
agree with the ideas of spirit and matter which some possess,
is not my affair, for I did not make either the facts or opinions
which cause them to be so inconvenient. I have merely stated
that which I have seen, and if I have done so clearly, I am
satisfied. Facts will always take care of themselves, and
those are the wisest to whom they administer no reproof,”
A Fa mu,tati Spteit.—A High Church newspaper called
The Penny Post, contains the following narrative:—St.
Frances was a holy woman who lived in Borne in the seventeenth
century, and the legend concerning her states that she was
favoured with the visible presence of her guardian angel. She
has left the following description of her heavenly companion:
“ He is about as tall as a child of nine years of age, his face is
full of sweetness, his eyes are turned towards heaven; he
wears a long shining robe, and over it a mantle white as snow.
When he walks by my side his feet are never soiled by the
mud or dirt of the streets.” When St. Frances fell into any
fault her good angel disappeared, but as soon as she repented,
he came back. At the point of death she was heard to ex¬
claim, “ The angel has finished his task. He stands before
me; he beckons me to follow him.” Having uttered these
words, her soul was born by her angel guardian to heaven, St,
Frances is commemorated by the Western Church on March 9th.
Spikittialism: and the Devil.—The Ilev. John Jones,
Congregational minister, of Liverpool, has sent us a pamphlet
entitled Spiritualism the work of Demons, the said pamphlet
being the substance of a sermon delivered by him in Chadwick
Mount Chapel, Liverpool, on Sunday, Sept. 10th, 1871. In
the opening part of the pamphlet he states the facts of the
case very fairly, admitting Spiritual phenomena to be neither
delusion nor imposture; admitting, moreover, that some of the
spirit messages received are of a pure and high character. He
admits that some seances are opened by prayer, and he quotes
a message given through Mr. Home’s mediumship : “We do
all we can to convince you that we still live, and that God is
love.” He calls attention to the fact that healing mediums
have the power of curing a certain proportion of diseases.
Then he ceases to reason, but brings blind authority to bear,
and says that this apparent good is all the trickery of the
devil, and that Spiritual communion is forbidden by “ God.”
By the word “ God ” we find that he means the personage
whom the ancient Jews believed to be God, and he actually
quotes the passage from 1 Kings xxii. where God (?) orders
a lying angel to go and tell untruths to Ahab, in order that
Ahab may be deceived, and some thousands of his men
slaughtered. The inference is that Mr. Jones conceives that
the more villainous the contents of a message, the more likely
is it to come from the Almighty, and the purer it is, the more
likely is its author to be the Devil. Also that when a blood¬
thirsty order is given to slaughter some thousands of men and
make slaves of the women and children, it must come from
God, whereas if a healing medium saves several lives per
week, that is necessarily the work of a gentleman from the
lower regions. He also quotes the command of Moses to
put to death those media who did not support his own order
of priestcraft. But if Mr. Jones cites one order of Moses as
binding, why not another ? Moses commanded his people to
eat nothing which had been strangled. Does Mr. Jones abstain
from roast fowl, and order his flock to do so likewise ? If not,
why not ? If Moses is to be obeyed in the one case, why not
in the other ? Mr. Jones substitutes the word “ God ” now
and then for “ Moses,” to frighten unintelligent people. A
chief point in Mr. Jones’s pamphlet is, that wicked people in
these latter days were to be distinguished by their “ forbidding
to marry, and by their abstaining from meathe says that
this applies to Spiritualists, which is certainly not the case.
The British are the greatest meat-eaters in the world, and it
is a question for physiologists whether we should not be the
better for eating a larger proportion of vegetable food. A
God surrounded by angels, who went about telling untruths
for Him, by His direct order, was quite good enough for the
ancient Jews, whose proclivities are thus summed up in a
book written by Mr. Guppy—“As to the Jews, they were told
that they were the peculiarly favoured nation on earth,
although, really, to read their own history of themselves, their
dictionary had not the word ‘ honesty ’in it; for Jacob
cheated Esau of his birthright, and Laban cheated Jacob in
the matter of substituting Leah for Kachel; and Jacob
cheated Laban about the cattle ; and Bachel stole her father’s
goods and told him a falsehood ; and Joseph’s brethren sold
him and told a falsehood to their father—so that we may well
believe that, when they left the Egyptians, they robbed them
of everything they could carry away.” We may add that page
after page of Mr. Jones’s pamphlet is taken verbatim from
The Spiritualist, but Mr. Jones does not acknowledge in any
part of his essay the source from which he helped himself to
so much literary matter.
* Should he “power to materialise.”—Ed.
4
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15, 1872.
MISS KATE FOX’S MEDIUMSHIP.
BY william: h. haerison.
The great movement of modern Spiritualism began
about twenty-two years ago, through the mediumship
of Miss Kate Fox, in the little village of Hydesville,
near Kochester, U.S.; therefore now that she is in
London it has been with no slight degree of interest
that I have on several occasions during the past month
observed the manifestations which take place in her
presence. She is the best rapping medium at present
in England. When she places the tips of her fingers
on a door, for instance, loud raps which signal out
messages usually proceed from it at once ; the raps are
not like single concussions, but are composed of three
raps following each other in rapid succession, as if the
points of three fingers were rattled down upon the
wood one after the other. These -triple raps are often
loud enough, when they come upon a table, to be heard
in the passage outside the room, when the door of the
room is closed. A few evenings ago, at a soiree given
by Mr. Tebb, at 20, Kochester-road. Camden-town,
Miss Fox put her hands upon the closed door of one of
the rooms, while she and some of the guests were in
the room, and others were outside in the passage ; both
the room and the passage were brilliantly lighted. The
question was raised by me, in the passage, whether
Miss Fox’s spirit friends could hear any questions we
put, since it was certain that Miss Fox, on the other
side of the closed door, could not hear them. One of
us then said, in a low voice, “ Please rap five times,”
and five clear loud raps came from the door at once.
This is an experiment which should be several times
repeated, as it might in this case have been mere
coincidence.
The chief ordinary feature of Miss Fox’s mediumship
at dark circles, is the spirit lights. At one of her
seances at which about a dozen witnesses (some of them
well-known public men) were present, a single large
phosphorescent light made its appearance behind the
chair of one of the sitters, swept in a curve over his
head to the centre of the table, where it seemed to lay
hold of a pencil in some way; at any rate the pencil
lying there was taken up, and heard writing on the
paper, while the light was moving about near it; then
the light travelled to the further side of the table, from
which it rose, and touched some of the sitters there, who
said that it felt like a soft solid substance; then it
swept in a great curve, several yards long back, to the
spot whence it had arisen, and disappeared. This
phosphorescent light was about as big as an egg; I
saw no smoke from it; some of us thought we saw it
flecked with a few dark bars, but its movements were
very rapid. When a light was struck a long letter was
found to be written upon the paper, and signed with
the name of the departed little daughter of one of the
gentlemen present. At one part of this seance, the
raps asked me to go to and stand by the door of the
room, away from the circle, and hold Miss Fox’s hands.
I did so, and a phosphorescent light, rather bigger than
an egg, rose from the floor, and flitted about within
a foot of my eyes. Its edges were not well-defined ; I
saw no dark bands about it, but, as the luminous object
flitted about very rapidly, they might have been there.
I am not a seeing medium, or a medium of any kind,
so in describing'these things state only what can be
seen with normal eyesight, and which every other
person present saw also.
Last Friday week, at a luncheon at which Mrs.
Guppy, Miss Fox, Miss Ogden, and myself were present,
the heavy circular dining-table, with all the dishes and
things on it, was floating about in the air, about a foot
off the ground, half the time. Miss Fox’s spirit friends
were rapping out their messages from the floor, table,
and various parts of the room; the floor of the room
shook tremulously at times, and Mrs. Guppy’s spirit
friend “ Katie ” signalled out her messages by thumping
the table up and down, raising it about a foot each
time. This was in broad daylight. We asked the
spirits not to make a noise while the servants were
present, and it was amusing to see how the hubbub
•ceased at once directly anybody turned the handle of
the door to come in. When they went out again, up
went the table, and out came the raps, resuming the
messages at the point where they had been broken off.
We had to remove several things from the table, or they
would have been broken.
Recently, at one of Mrs. L. M. Gregory’s seances, 21,
Green-street, Grosvenor-square, a gentleman present
had his thoughts read, so that two proper names were
thus obtained and given to him, by Miss Fox’s spirit
friends. We saw no spirit lights on this occasion, Miss
Fox being unwell. I regret to say that her health is
far from strong.
Yery small circles are better than large ones for Miss
Fox’s mediumship, and by sitting regularly and sup¬
plying all the most favourable conditions, disembodied
spirits have on several occasions been able to materialise
themselves in her presence, so that they could be seen
and recognised by their friends. Several of these cases
are published in the new book, The Debatable Land, by
the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, and some have been printed
in the back numbers of The Spiritualist.
DOGMATISM IN SCIENCE.*
BY EBWARD W. COX, S.L., E.B.G.S.
Who would have supposed that in these days of free
inquiry such extreme irritability could be exhibited by
the Professors of Physical Science at the bare sugges¬
tion of the possible existence of something in man that
cannot be carved by the scalpel, seen by the microscope,
and analysed in the laboratory ? Who could have
anticipated the virulence of hostility with which they
pursue all who venture to assert that there may be
psychological facts, dependent on psychological condi¬
tions, and governed by psychological laws, distinct
from, and but imperfectly controlled by, those material
laws to which alone their useful labours are devoted?
Unhappily there is a fanaticism of scepticism as well
as a fanaticism of faith. Dogmatism is at least as
rampant in science as in theology. A true Materialist
would be sorely vexed if it could be demonstrated to
him that he has an immortal soul. I cannot help
suspecting that this endeavour to deter even from
inquiry by anticipatory denunciation as fools or rogues
of all who dare to inquire, is prompted by a suspicion
lurking in a corner of the minds of the Materialist
Philosophers that there may be some truth after all in
this evidence of a Psychic Force; and that, if a truth,
it will go far to disturb their favourite dogma that
mind is a secretion of the body; that life is an
arrangement of particles; that there is nothing of us
but doth perish and pass away; that we are only
animated machines that perform a prescribed task, fall
to pieces, and there an end. I cannot disguise from
them, from the reader, or from myself, that if the
existence of a Psychic Force is the fact which, after
most careful and anxious examination, I am satisfied
that it is, and of which I ask others to satsfy them-
velves by a like investigation, it does go very far indeed
to disturb the Philosophy of Materialism which has
taken so strong a hold of the scientific world, by the
probability it raises that there is a something in man,
other than the visible material body, from which that
Force proceeds, or with which it is intimately
associated.
The Royal Institution.—Next Friday week, the Arch-
bishop of Westminster will lecture at the Royal Institution on
“ The Demon of Socrates.” Socrates was clairaudient, that is
to say, a guardian spirit could occasionally communicate with
him by acting upon his organs of hearing. There are several
spirit-mediums in England who at the present time get com¬
munications in the same way. Professor Humphry, E.R.S.,
will lecture there on Feb. 9th on “ Sleep.” Dr. Rutherford
will give ten weekly lectures, beginning to-morrow, on “ The
Circulatory and Nervous Systems.” Mr. Moncure D. Conway
will give four lectures on “Demonology,” in March; in the
last one he will introduce psychological subjects. Professor
Tyndall has just given six splendid experimental lectures at
the Institution, and the Prince Imperial of France was present
at most of them.
Religious Bigotry.—Within the past month two intel¬
ligent, well-educated young ladies, both non-professional
mediums, have lost their situations because of the orthodox
antipathy of their employers to Spiritualism. One of these
modern martyrs to intolerance is Miss Kate Stokes, of 29,
Kingsdown-road, Upper Holloway, N.; and the other is Miss
Florence Cook, of 6, Bruce-villas, Eleanor-road, Hackney, E.
If deeds of this kind are to begin, they will cut both ways,
for there is probably a larger proportion of rich and educated
people among Spiritualists than can be found in any other
denomination, and we have in our ranks many large employers
of labour. VYe would not have any Spiritualist disgrace us
by discharging assistants because of their religious convictions,
but there might be no harm in giving the preference to
Spiritualists when new assistants are wanted, and in transfer-
ing business orders to Spiritualistic tradesmen, when it can
be done without inconvenience. John Bull’s real religion at
present, as proved by his daily acts, if not by his words, is
“money,” and the line of action herein suggested will appeal
more powerfully to his nature than any arguments whatever.
Spirits working a Sewing Machine.—Mrs. C. M.
Mannion, of 3, Cornwallis-road, Upper Holloway, N., has
favoured us at our request with the following account of a
seance held last Sunday week at the house of Mr. Stokes, 29,
Kingsdown-road, Upper Holloway. Our correspondent says :—
“Besides our own family, there were present Mr. Herne, the
medium, who called in unexpectedly; Miss Cook; Miss
Rogers, of Norwich ; Mr. Frank Everitt; Mr. Bond, Upper-
street, Islington; and a friend from Manchester. Mr. Herne
sat at the end of the large table, with his back to the window,
Miss Florrie Cook and Miss Kate Stokes on opposite sides of
the table, and they each held a hand of Mr. Herne all the
evening. For some time the manifestations were of the
ordinary character of those at Messrs. Herne and Williams’
seances, John and Katie King speaking in their usual manner.
The curtains of the bay window of the seance room were drawn
across before the seance commenced, completely concealing
the sewing-machine which stood there. Mr. Herne had never
been in the house before, and could not possibly have known
of the fact of the machine being there. The curtains were
first wrapped round Mr. Herne, Florence, and Kate, after
which the shutters were violently beaten, as though some one
in the room were striking them with a hammer. We then
heard the machine-wheel gently moved, and then the machine
was drawn quite out and close to the chairs of Miss Cook and
Mr. Herne, jamming them close to the table. We inquired if
work could be done by the spirits, if it were prepared and
placed on the machine, and were answered in the affirmative.
On the work being arranged, and the light put out, the
machine was worked quickly and well, and the spirits stitched
along the entire length of the piece of calico that had been
placed there for them. A Bible was brought from the chef-
fonier, and a drawer emptied of its contents in tfie course of
the seance.,’ The comments of John and Katie King about
the difficulty of working the machine, and getting the threads
to the right tension, were very amusing.
* From Spiritualism Answered by Science, by Mr. Serjeant Cox. Long¬
mans: London. 1S72.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The following is an amended prospectus of the
Psychological Society, drawn up by Mr. Serjeant Cox.
We hope that a council will be formed without much
more delay, and that the Society will soon begin its
work:—
“ THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OP GBEAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND,
“ For the Promotion, by Experimental liesearch, of the Science
of Psychology.
“ The investigations of the society are to be strictly limited
to its proper province—1. The Laws of Being; 2. The Laws
of Life; 3. The Nature and Operations of Mind ; 4. The
Phenomena called Psychic ; 5. The Spirit, its existence, past,
present, and future.
“ These subjects to be treated entirely as questions of
science, to be determined by facts and experiments.
“ Plan of the Society.
“ The society to consist of an indefinite number of members.
“ Members to be of three classes—1. Ordinary members re¬
sident in London; 2. Provincial members, residing more than
twenty miles from the metropolis; 3. Corresponding and
honorary members.
“ The subscription of ordinary members to be two guineas
per annum ; of provincial members, one guinea per annum.
“ The subscription to entitle the members to attend all the
meetings of the society, and to receive a copy of all its publi¬
cations.
“The society to be governed by a president, four vice-pre¬
sidents, and a council of twelve ordinary members, to be
elected by ballot at the general annual meeting.
“ The officers of the society to be a treasurer and an hono¬
rary secretary.
“ An experimental committee, not exceeding twenty-five in
number, to be appointed yearly hy the council, for the purpose
of conducting scientific experiments, to be reported to the
society from time to time.
“ The meetings of the society to be held fortnightly from
the month of November to the month of June inclusive, or
otherwise, as the council may determine, and on such days
and times as the council may, with due notice, appoint from
time to time.
“ Convenient rooms for such meetings to be provided by
the council.
“ The chair to be taken at eight o’clock precisely by the
president, if present; in his absence by one of the vice-presi¬
dents in order of standing; in their absence, by a member
chosen by the members present.
“ The proceedings to consist of—1: Reports of the experi¬
mental committee and its sub-committees; 2. Papers accepted
by the council; 3. Discussions on the subjects of the papers,
if sanctioned by the council.
“ The council may, if it think fit, divide the operations of
the society into sections, each section dealing with a single
branch of the science.
“ The first council will be self-appointed, but at the first
annual meeting all the officers and council will be subjected
to election by the members.
“Members will be elected by ballot, having been duly pro¬
posed and seconded. One-third of black balls to exclude.”
“ Persons resident in London and in the provinces desirous
of becoming members are requested to address an application
to that effect to ‘ The Psychological Society,’ at the office of
the Quarterly Journal of Science, Boy-court, Ludgate-hill.
London.”
Unconscious Cerebration. — Dr. Carpenter lectured
yesterday afternoon at St. George’s Hall, on “ Popular
Delusions,” under which title he included Spiritualism. His
“ unconscious cerebration” theory has been so utterly exploded
years ago among those who have practical knowledge, that
we have not thought it worth refuting in a special article.
Solid objects not in the stance room before, are so often
brought into the room by the spirits, and often from very long
distances, that Dr. Carpenter's lectures have no influence at
all over any Spiritualist. There are four or five medium^ in
England, in whose presence these manifestations take place,
and we recommend Dr. Carpenter to read the back numbers of
this journal to see how untenable are his arguments, and how
little calculated to influence anybody but those who have no
knowledge whatever of the subject, but who think it safe to
rely upon the assertions of the future president of the British
Association.
Mysterious Stone Throwing.—A strange story comes
from Ellerton-on-Swale, near Richmond, which, however
marvellous, has the evidence of so many persons to it that it
cannot be rejected. It is to be hoped that some solution of
the affair may be found without being compelled to ascribe the
strange proceedings to supernatural agency. It is this. On
Friday last, the 15th December, about two in the afternoon,
a widow woman, who resides in a small cottage near the road¬
side in the scattered hamlet, the only inmates of the house
being herself and grandchild, heard a loud thumping at the
back door, and on the child going to the door no one was found
there. A few minutes elapsed, when the thumping was re¬
peated, and again no visitor appeared. Shortly afterwards
a stone came through the window, to the great alarm of the
occupants of the cottage. This was soon followed by another,
and the missiles then kept following in quick succession all the
afternoon, and until eleven at night. There is a large field at
the back of the house, the hedge of which is some 200 yards
from the cottage, and there is no opportunity for the shelter
of any person mischievously disposed at the back in the direc¬
tion from which the stones came. At the opposite side of the
road, to the front of the house, there is a stone wall, which
forms the boundary of another large field, without any cow
byre or other shelter in it, and before long the stones came in
at the front windows as well as at the back. A watch was set
immediately the neighbours came home from work; but with¬
out avail, as the stones continued to pour in at the windows
all the evening. A cessation took place near midnight, only
to be renewed the following morning, and the pelting con¬
tinued until Saturday afternoon, without any discovery being
made as to the cause. The old woman was in the greatest
consternation, and evidently ascribed the visitation to the Evil
One, not knowing what she had done to deserve such treat¬
ment. Strange to say every stone was aimed at the windows
with such unerring precision that there is scarcely a whole
pane left in any of them. Some of the stones were larger than
a man’s hand, which entirely does away with the supposition
that they have been thrown by a catapult.—Darlington
Times.
Jas. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
5
A COMMUNICATION FROM MR. GUPPY.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sib,—I am sorry that your want of space curtails what I
would wish to say. It iS a case on which I am seeking the
opinions of enlightened men. The following is an abridged
narrative. About the first of November, I read the following
in the Daily Telegraph:—
“’Witchcraft at Nbwbury—[By Tblesraph.]—Yesterday, the Re¬
corder for Newbury (Mr. Dowdeswell) sentenced a woman named Tranter to
five years’ penal servitude, for having obtained a sum of money by false
pretences from Emma Gregory, a woman living in a wild district in North
Hants. Gregory and another woman lost some goods while returning from
Reading market a fortnight ago, and, having heard of the power said to be
possessed by the prisoner, who jvas called the ‘ cunning woman of New¬
bury,’ went to consult her. Prisoner told them she could recover the lost
goods. She went through an absurd ceremony, and pretended to bring the
image of the man who had stolen the things in a glass which she produced.
She said she ruled the stars and if the nights were fine she would be able
to get the lost things back the sooner. The women paid her a shilling each,
and promised to give her more when the property was restored. The pri¬
soner has been convicted on six or seven occasions for offences of a like
nature. The Recorder said that such practices as those by which the pri¬
soner had gained a livelihood for many years past were a scandal to
society."
At first it appeared to me an illusion. Again and again I
read it. “ Five years penal servitude! ” An elderly woman,
no doubt. I imagined a kind of Mrs. Gamp, taken from her
comfortable home at a period of life, perhaps, when failing
health demands every comfort. I began to reflect on the
principles of punishment. Moses says, “ An eye for an eye
and a tooth for a tooth.” Offences, I reasoned, are either
against the person, property, or the interests of society; for
instance, a man steals a sheep, the farmer is injured forty
shillings, but society is injured, because if sheep stealing were
not punished, no man could keep sheep, and we could have no
mutton. If one of those fellows who have lately received
forty lashes breaks into a house, half murders the inhabitants,
and steals property, there is a threefold offence—personal in¬
jury, robbery of goods, and an offence to the nation; neither
life nor property would be secure, and therefore such crime
must be prevented by the Government at any expense of
severity. Forgery, also, though it be but for £1, and does not
bodily damage anyone, would produce such baneful effects in
society, that no means would be too strong if necessary to pre¬
vent it. But, I reflected, to warrant punishment one of three
things must occur—damage to the person, robbery or damage
of property, or damage to the nation.
Now this woman had told fortunes, or given advice, true or
false, about recovery of stolen goods. A servant-maid, or a
carriage-lady, goes to her, consults her, and pays a shilling or
half-a-crown. She pretends to rule the stars. Well, the Pope
pretends to infallibility. However, these parties are not in¬
jured in person, and if they preferred spending the shilling or
half-a-crown with her, or in a playhouse, or in a gin-shop,
what grounds for punishment exist ? I determined I would
go to Newbury and inquire, and, not knowing anyone there, I
took the liberty of requesting Mr. Serjeant Cox to give me
such certificate of respectability as would entitle me to a hear¬
ing either from the Clerk of the Court or.any solicitor. Further,
I asked my lawyer for an abstract of the laws on witchcraft,
which I here copy:—
h ’Witchcraft.—Person pretending to exercise or use any kind of witch¬
craft, sorcery, enchantment, or conjuration, or undertaking to tell fortunes,
or pretending from his skill or knowledge in any occult or crafty science,
to discover where or in what maimer any goods or chattels, supposed to
have been stolen or lost may be found. Offence—Misdemeanour.
'• Statute or Authority.—9 Geo. II., cap. 5, sec. 4. Triable at the
Sessions. Bail is compulsory. Punishment—Imprisonment for a year, and
sureties for good behaviour; or indictable, as for false pretences. Costs of
prosecution not allowed.
“False Pretences.—24 and 25 Vic., cap. 96, sec. 88. Penal servitude
for five years, or imprisonment not exceeding two years, with or without
hard labour.
Meanwhile I fell very ill with inflammation of the lungs,
which prevented my quitting the house—meanwhile, I could
not get Mrs. Tranter out of my head.
If, thought I, the punishment is just, of course the life of
an old woman or a thousand old women is of no consequence.
But if she has done no harm to anybody, nor robbed anybody,
then is the punishment of life-long imprisonment with labour,
torn from all her old cronies, deprived of all the little comforts
of old age—it’s not a punishment, for if in the eyes of en¬
lightened men conversant with social science, this woman has
done nothing worthy of any punishment whatever, then has
a great crime been committed by the machine called “ law.”
I do not blame Recorder Dowdeswell—he is a benefactor to his
country. When General Grant was made President of the
United States, he said to Congress : “ The laws you enact I
shall enforce, for I know of no way so effectual to procure the
abolition of a bad law as the stern enforcement of it.” That
President Grant threw out another ray of light the other day;
he said that the way to advance a nation is to improve the
condition of the working classes.
As my health did not permit me to go, and the sun would not
permit my neighbour Hudson to photograph, I asked him to
run down to Newbury, furnishing him with Serjeant Cox’s
letter to me, and my authority to him, and the following is
his report on the case, and also a letter from Mr. Slocock, the
banker:—
DEPOSITION OF MR. HUDSON.
11 January 6.—Went to Newbury by the 10.15 train, and called upon Mr.
Matthews, hairdresser. He told me he had known Mrs. Tranter for twenty
years; never heard anything against her excepting telling fortunes; said
she was a sort of monthly nurse, and always willing to attend any poor
person with fever, free of charge—might accept payment if the people
could afford it; said that not only he but everyone in the town thought the
punishment very severe—ought to have been two years at the outside,
because she had eighteen months before.
“ I then went to the ‘ Dolphin ’ Inn—saw the landlord, Mr. Statey and
Mrs. Statey, who said they had seen her about for a number of years, had
never heard anything against her, with the exception of this fortune telling.
They said she was a sober, hard working woman; was a midwife, but also
went to nurse any poor persons. They directed me to Mr. Brown, builder.
He said he had known Mrs. Tranter from a child; had never known any¬
thing against her; she had been his neighbour for very many years; was
not given to liquor; always a respectable looking woman; heard that she
told fortunes with two glasses; he said 1 a sort of globes; ’ he had not seen
them; said his opinion was that the persons who called were two detectives
who implicated her; said he heard that she often had visitors, and that he
had heard that carriage people called on her; said he had been on the jury
previously when she had eighteen months in prison for the same thing;
said that the Recorder had said on that occasion that if ever that woman
came before him again, he would make an example of her.
“ I then found Tranter, the husband, a bricklayer’s labourer, who works
for Mr. Brown. He said many persons called on her, some who kept their
carriage, but he was never allowed in the room, nor did he know what fee
or charge she made, but thinks she took anything people chose to give her;
he said she had not money enough to employ counsel; he said her age was
58; that she had a son by a former marriage with a Mr. Giles, who is now
in the police force in London, and a daughter who is in an asylum. He said
his wife was in Reading Gaol, and could not be seen by any one till the end
of three months, when she would be removed; he believed it was for five
years hard labour; he said that he and she would feel most thankful to any-
oue who could procure a mitigation of sentence.
" I called subsequently on Mr. Matthews, the hairdresser, who gave me
The Newbury Weekly News, wherein is the following letter from Mr. Slocock
the hanker of Newbury:—
‘“THE CASE OF MARIA GILES, ALIAS TRANTER.
“ ‘ To the Editor of the Newbury Weekly News.
“ ‘ Sir, An impression seems to have got abroad that the sentence,
passed by the Recorder of Newbury at his last Quarter Sessions, on Mfiria
Giles, alias Tranter, was unreasonably severe, and a petition was, I believe,
presented to the Home Secretary for remission of the punishment, as being
out of proportion to the offence. He has, however, I am informed, declined
to interfere, thereby confirming in his opinion the justice of the sentence.
Perhaps your readers are not aware that she had been convicted and sen¬
tenced to various periods of imprisonment on seven previous occasions, and
on the three last to eighteen months, twelve months, and eighteen months,
for similar offences, and might fairly be considered as incorrigible. I
think, therefore, in justice to the Recorder, this should be known. I know
that it was not without deep consideration that he felt it his duty to pass so
severe a sentence. He was staying with me at the time, and had the depo¬
sitions sent up to him to read, and it seemed to him so clear, after the many
imprisonments the prisoner had undergone, that there was little or no hope
of reformation, and he therefore determined, if she were found guilty, to
pass such a sentence as would prevent the credulous being victimised by
her, for at all events a considerable time to come—a determination in which
I confess I quite coincided. I have purposely abstained from any remark
while the case was before the Home Secretary, though I could not at all
agree in the propriety of the petition. “ ‘ I am, Sir, yours faithfully,
“ ‘ Donnington, Dec. 18,1871. “ ‘ Charles S. Slocook.’
, “The universal feeling of every person I spoke with at Newbury was that
Mrs. Tranter was a sober, well-conducted woman, ever ready to assist sick
persons—not being deterred by any sickness or fever. As regards the
fortune-telling, &c., Mrs. Brian said that she believed that on one occasion
the lost things had been recovered through her instrumentality. People
seemed to think that she could not have got much money by it, because she
could not afford to employ counsel.”
I have placed the case in the most unfavourable light.
Seven times has this woman been convicted, otherwise a most
exemplary woman. But again, I ask, supposing in every street
in London there was a cunning woman who told fortunes and
gave advice about stolen property, where is the injury to
person or property warranting any punishment whatever?
As to witchcraft, if witches and wizards are punishable, then
all the committee of the Dialectical Society are punishable.
Reading Serjeant Cox’s able pamphlet entitled Spiritualism
Answered by Science, I see at the end an advertisement of
books by the same author of a work, The Principles of Punish¬
ment. I sent for it to-day, wishing to see how far the learned
Serjeant’s ideas would justify the probably life-long imprison¬
ment with hard labour, of Mrs. Tranter, but I am told the
book will not be out for some days. My own opinion is,
referring to Mr. Slocock’s letter, that Mr. Bruce is not the
person to go to—it’s Mr. Law.
The first thing we have to find out is whether, in the opinion
of highly-educated men, there was any ground for imprisoning
this woman at all. If there were not, the law ought not to
exist a single hour longer than would suffice to blot it out
from the statute-book as a stain on the national character.
And after that would come the consideration what damages
should be awarded to Mrs. Tranter.
As you will not give me any more room, I defer further
remarks to your next number, by which time I shall have
opinions which may have greater weight than mine.
Jan. 10,1872. Samuel Guppy.
A title-page and copious index to the first volume of
The Spiritualist will be published in a month or two. . We
recommend our readers to have the volume strongly and sub¬
stantially bound, as there are but a limited number of copies,
and in a few years the book will be scarce and valuable.
Copies of the first volume of The Spiritual Magazine, a very
little book, are now worth a guinea each.
Dr. Edmunds and Mr. Coleman.—Mr. Coleman has
sent us copies of letters which have passed between him and
Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr. John Jones, and Mr. G. W. Bennett.
Messrs. Jones and Wallace, who were present when Dr. Ed¬
munds appealed to Mr. Bennett, say, that so far as they
remember, Mr. Coleman’s version of what took place then is
the correct one. Mr. Coleman says that if a mistake has been
made about what took place on that occasion, a mistake may
have been made about what took place before, but he has no
wish to adhere to any inaccurate statement. All those to
whom he spoke knew well enough that the manifestations are
not under the control of the persons present, and that nobody
knows beforehand what will take place at a seance. We can¬
not give further space to the discussion of this personal
matter.
Messrs. Herne and Williams’s Mediumship.—Last
Tuesday night Mr. Edmiston, the principal of the well-known
indiarubber firm at Charing-cross, gave a seance to a party of
friends at his private house, at Beckenham, Kent. About
twenty ladies and gentlemen were present, and Messrs. Heme
and Williams were the mediums. The seance was a dark one.
The voice manifestations were very good, and while all the
guests were sitting round the table with their hands joined,
a large ornamental cheffonier, with plate glass panels, was
brought by the spirits away from the wall, to the nearest
sitters, a distance of about three feet. It would have required
two or three men to carry it so quietly, under ordinary circum¬
stances, and nothing was broken. Five or six unoccupied
heavy chairs were lifted by the spirits and placed on the top of
the table; as they passed them over the heads of the sitters,
the spirits usually lowered them, and tapped the sitters gently
on the heads with the bottoms of the seats of the floating
chairs. On Saturday evenings Messrs. Heme and Williams
give stances at half-a-crown each, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-
street, Holbom, to Spiritualists only, in order to secure har¬
monious conditions. Those who desire to attend must be
present before a quarter to seven, after which time nobody
will be admitted to the first seance. There will be two seances,
and a tea between them. This new system of friendly weekly
gatherings of Spiritualists begins next Saturday evening.
The Royal Polytechnic Institution.—At the present
time Professor Pepper is giving an entertainment at the
Polytechnic Institution, called “ the Arabian Mystery.” A
lady sits on the platform with her back to the audience,
whilst another lady walks about among the observers, and
asks them to give her scraps of writing or anything they
please ; not a Word is spoken by the lady, who reads the scraps
given to her; but the other lady on the platform repeats the
words given to her colleague. The lecturer says that the two
ladies do it all by themselves, that there is no collusion with
any of the spectators, and that if the scraps were given to the
lady in another room altogether, the one on the platform
would learn the contents just the same. He added that the
management would not permit him to say how it was done,
and if they would, it would require a very long lecture to
explain it. We gave the name of “ Aaron Franklin ” to the
one lady who took it in her hand, and said not a word; the
lady on the platform then called out “ Franklin,” but
omitted the “ Aaron.” The truth of the matter is that these
are genuine psychological experiments, and one lady by the
exertion of her will-power, is able to force words and thoughts
into the brain of her sensitive subject on the platform. It
would require a long lecture to explain the nature of the
phenomenon, and we doubt if any living man has sufficient
knowledge at present to be able to give the said lecture.
SPIRITUALISM AND PSYCHIC FORCE.*
BY WILLIAM CROOKES, F.R.S.
Let me take the opportunity of explaining the exact
position which I wish to occupy in respect to the subject
of Psychic Force and Modern Spiritualism. I have de¬
sired to examine the phenomena from a point of view
as strictly physical as their nature will permit. I wish
to ascertain the laws governing the appearance of very
remarkable phenomena which at the present time are
occurring to an almost incredible extent. That a hitherto
unrecognised form of Force—whether it be called psychic
force or a? force is of little consequence—is involved in
this occurrence, is not with me a matter of opinion, but
of absolute knowledge; but the nature of that force, or
the cause which immediately excites its activity, forms
a subject on which I do not at present feel competent
to offer an opinion. I wish, at least for the present, to
be considered in the position of an electrician at Valen-
tia, examining by means of appropriate testing instru¬
ments, certain electrical currents and pulsations passing
through the Atlantic cable; independently of their
causation, and ignoring whether these phenomena are
produced by imperfections in the testing instruments
themselves—whether by earth currents or by faults in
the insulation—or whether they are produced by an
intelligent operator at the other end of the line.
Dalston Society of Enquirers into Spiritualism.—
On Monday evening last, the 8th inst., the half yearly general
meeting of the Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiri¬
tualism was held at their rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
at which there was a large gathering of the members and their
friends. The notice convening the meeting, and the minutes
of the last half-yearly meeting were read by Mr. Thos. Blyton,
the Secretary, who then proceeded to read the report of- the
past half-year, approved by the Committee, at their last
meeting on the 4th inst. It was a most satisfactory report,
showing that at the twenty-seven seances held during the
half-year, there was an average attendance of fourteen, or one
person per sitting more than the average of last half-year.
Of the twenty-seven seances, twenty-four were the ordinary
consecutive Thursday evening meetings, the other three being
special seances, with professional media, viz., on October 26th,
with Mr. James J. Morse; 30th November, with Miss Lottie
Fowler; and on December 29th, with Messrs. Heme and
Williams. The results of all the seances have been most satis¬
factory. On October 5th, Mr. C. W. Pearce, President of the
Spiritual Association at Kilburn, delivered a lecture on “ The
Uses of Spiritualism,” which was highly appreciated by a large
audience. The balance sheet also speaks to the good financial
state of the society. Among the books recently added to the
library, were mentioned, The Report of the Dialectical Society,
Gerald Massey’s Concerning Spiritualism, Debatable Land,
Heaven and Hell, &c., which have been purchased by the
Committee, besides various presents of interesting and useful
books given by Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S.,
Mr. A. C. Swinton, Mr. J. Scott, and Mr. T. Blackburn. The
report and balance sheet having been submitted to the mem¬
bers, it was moved by Mr. G. R. Tapp, seconded by Mr. E.
Newton, and unanimously carried, “ That they both be
approved and adopted.” The members then proceeded to
elect the officers for the current half year, when the following
were returned:—Mr. Thomas Wilks, President; Mrs. J. C.
Evans, Messrs. E. Newton, J. B. Ortton, G. Blyton, and
J. Stephens, Committee; Mr. G. R. Tapp, Recorder ; and
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Secretary and Treasurer.
New Books.—Within the past month we have received
several new books, which we intended to criticise, but have
been compelled to abstain from doing so, to make room for Mr.
Guppy’s excellent letter, which may perhaps result in saving
the life of an elderly woman. Will some member of Parliament
take up Mr. Guppy’s case, and draw the attention of the House
of Commons to the laws relating to witchcraft? Amongst
the books received is one which we shall have to notice again,
Hints for the Evidences of Spiritualism, by M.P. (Triibner
and Co.), an excellent little book, well written, handsomely
printed, and just the thing required at the present time to
present to persons unacquainted with Spiritualism, but who
desire to know what can be said in its favour. It contains
nothing to offend the theological opinions of anybody. Mr.
Gerald Massey’s new pamphlet, Concerning Spiritualism (J.
Burns), is a lively and sparkling production, not so neutral on
theological points as the other work just mentioned. His
critical remarks about some of the mysteries of trance-
mediumship, as exemplified in the case of Mr. T. L. Harris,
we think to be too sharp; also that Mr. Massey is wrong in
recommending careful artificial “ word-painting” in poetry—
true poetry is more natural. The pamphlet, as a whole, is
a good and valuable addition to Spiritual literature, and we
give a quotation from it elsewhere. Mr. Crookes’s pamphlet
on Psychic Force and Modern Spiritualism (Longmans),
answers Dr. Carpenter, tells the real circumstances of the
admission of Mr. Crookes to the Royal Society, and of the
doings of Mr. John Spiller, secretary to the Photographic
Society of London. Many Spiritualists do not like Mr.
Crookes, because he stops short at “Psychic Force,” and
utters no opinion as to who wields the force ; but when it is
remembered with what intolerant people he has to deal, and
what great influence in favour of Spiritualism his writings
have had on the public mind, we have no desire to see him
urged on faster than he deems it judicious to go. This Chris¬
tian Land (John Marven), by an anonymous writer, is a satire
on the difference between the professions and practice of
Christian England. It is a pamphlet called forth by the
present dense materialism of the churches and the people,
and the hollow insincerity and artificiality which pervade
society. “ Our very Bible,” it says, “ bears not a dedication
to God, but * To the most high and mighty prince, James. ’
There are two ‘ Most Highs,’ it would appear. ” The pamphlet«
is well worth reading. Spiritualism answered by Science, by
Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Hymns of Modern Man (Longmans),
we hope hereafter to criticise at greater length. The Quar¬
terly Journal of Science for this month contains a review of
the Dialectical Report; Mr. Crookes holds much the same
opinions about the report as those which we have already
expressed. He, also, wishes the speculations of the witnesses
to be expunged in any future edition.
* We extract this from the preface to Mr. Crookes's new pamphlet,
“ Psychic Force and Modern Spiritualism," a reply to the Quarterly Review
and other critics. Longmans: London. 1872.
6
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 15,18 72
i^etrg.
SPIRITUALISM.
A glorious light is breaking on this Clod-forsaken world,
And the banners of the angel host for warfare are unfurled;
A wond rous power is working, though as yet but in its birth,
With gentle violence to convince the hardened sons of earth.
While angel forms forsaking their brighter homes above
In pity for degenerate man commence the work of love;
Then why do we refuse our aid ?—why shun their gentle laws ?
Awake! arise, faint-hearted, and do battle in the cause!
Though Science sneer, and cry “ for shame,” and all the world deride,
And e’en Religion, prejudiced, should try the truth to hide,
Still onward press, if thou desir’st those realms of bliss to see,
And measure not thy love for man by man’s regard for thee.
And while a faith so pure and free all creeds alike may hold,
May Christendom united own one Shepherd and one fold.
And may this kindred feeling, as it spreads from sea to sea,
Of universal brotherhood the glorious foretaste be:
When strife of every kind throughout this world of ours shall cease.
And human woe be swallowed up in everlasting peace.
A Convert *
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE PAPER BY DR. EDMUNDS.
Sir,—At page 221 a typographical error in Mr. Wallace’s
letter has transposed the words “ Mrs.” and “ Mr.” so as to
make “ Mr.” come first instead of “ Mrs.” But this will be
obvious enough to any careful reader, as the facts are accurately
printed in the remarks from your own pen which follow Mr.
Wallace’s letter.
In the editorial comments annexed to my letter, after ex¬
pressing your approval of my conduct as chairman, you say :
—“ As a committee-man, Dr. Edmunds neglected his work ;
he did not see those experiments in his own house on which
the committee chiefly based their report; so, without a prac¬
tical knowledge of the facts, he drew up a most unfair
article, &c., &c.”
On this I have to say
1. That the report of the committee is not in any way based
upon experiments made in my house, f
2. What the report is based upon is : {a) Oral evidence
given before the committee itself, which I believe I knew
more completely than any other member of the committee.
(&) Written statements presented to the committee, and of
which I might almost say the same. (<?) The reports of the
six experimental sub-committees. Of these the most impor¬
tant, and the only one whose meetings were held in my house,
was No. 5, the one appointed to meet Mr. Home. At page 73
of the report I give a full account of my stewardship in that
matter, and I had quite prepared to give an elaborate investi¬
gation and rigid record of the phenomena. My attention
only relaxed because nothing occurred to record or investi¬
gate. None of the other “experiments on which the com¬
mittee based their Report ” were done in my own house, nor did
I undertake to attend any of the other sub-committees. No. 6
merely exposed two children, who were represented as wonderful
mediums ; No. 4 had nothing to report; No. 3 reports nothing
worth analysing, but it ought to be known that one of the
most reliable and careful members of the committee seceded
from this sub-committee in consequence of having to make
a charge of cheating against one of the persons present at its
first meeting. Practically the Report rests upon the evidence
of sub-committees Nos. 1 and 2. The meetings of No. 2 were
held at Hackney, and those of No. 1 at Langham-place.
Although not a member of the" sub-committee, I attended on
manyoccasions at Langham-place, but as nothing ever occurred
when I was present, and often I was very tired, I used to lie
on the sofa in a side room, ready to assist in investigating
anything which might occur ; and, once, when a dark seance
was being held with Mr. the medium, I passed into the
room, and for a long time watched intently, with such entire
silence that no one knew I was present until I spoke out to
protest against what seemed to me to be impudent tricks upon
the nerves of those who were sitting at the table, and of whom
Mrs. Edmunds was one.
So much for my attention to what the Report is based upon.
I will now add a few words as to my attention to other experi¬
ments which are ignored in the Report.
There were certain set phenomena exhibited before the
whole committee. The first were the trance utterances of Mr,
Spear in reference to my own humble self. As chairman of
the committee, I could not but be passive under this unex¬
pected incident. But I had never seen either Mr. Spear or
Miss Houghton before, and the first I saw of “ The delinea¬
tion ” was a copy of it in print. I had nothing whatever to
do with “ the delineation,” nor with its being printed. The
second was the sia/nce with Mrs. Marshall, at which I acted
as Chairman under the directorship of Mr. Coleman, and of
which I have given an adequate and accurate account at pages
70—73 of the Report. Thirdly, many private and unofficial
seances were held at my own house. At some of these I was
present, but after a hard day’s professional labour, I was not
able to sit out profitless seances when I had other matters on
my mind. I usually sat in my study at work, but ready to
assist at the examination of any phenomena which might
turn up. But whenever I was either present or in attendance,
nothing occurred to investigate. I regret that I was not at
home on March 3,1871, when the unofficial siance referred to
by Mr. Serjeant Cox, at page 103 of the Report, took place in
my dining-room. Those very remarkable evolutions of my
own dining-table might have made a deep impression on even
my own obdurate brain, and I should have been able to guard
against the only source of possible fallacy which occurs to me,
which is this:—the dining-table in question, though accurately
described by the learned Serjeant, has a fifth leg underneath
its centre, which is required to support its great weight and
length when fully extended by the extra leaves for the purpose
of dining a large number of persons. This central leg screws
in, and if it is not screwed home, or if the table be turned
round so. as to unscrew the leg a half turn, it becomes a little
too long, and forms a central pivot on which the heavy table
will balance, and revolve with surprising facility. I do not
aver that this central leg was the cause of the remarkable
^evolutions of the table on that occasion, but I mention the
fact for what it is .worth, and I shall be happy to show the
table to any one who will call at my house when I am at
home (i.e., every day before one o clock).
* We wish that more of our correspondents would send us short speci¬
mens of their poetical abilities, poetry being the highest form of expression
of human thought.—Ed.
t Mr. Serjeant Cox published that Dr. Edmunds was not present at the
entire of any of the meetings of the chief experimental Sub-Committee, and
did not witness any of the crucial tests which the members applied to the
phenomena. A description of a siance in Dr. Edmunds’ own house, is
printed on the next page.—Ed.
I have never made the acquaintance of any gentleman for
whom I have more respect than I have for Mr. Wallace.
Of Mr. Wallace’s energy in the pursuit of scientific truth, and
of his great personal ability it would be an impertinence for
me to speak. He at once saw that the principles which really
underlie the approach to spiritualistic controversy were in¬
volved in certain arguments which I used at one of the debates
of the Dialectical Society, and in order to refute those argu¬
ments, Mr. Wallace kindly prepared a paper, and read it before
the Dialectical Society. Although that paper appeared to
satisfy Mr. Wallace’s own mind, I failed to see its force, and,
therefore, reproduced the same arguments in my contribution
to the Report. I observe that Mr. Wallace has, after pro¬
longed deliberation, republished in the Report the substance
of his paper as an answer to the arguments thus reproduced
by me, and I take this opportunity of saying that if The
Spiritualist can find room for another letter from me, I will
display the fallacies which, in my opinion, vitiate Mr. Wal¬
lace’s paper. But I have neither time nor space to do so in
the present letter.
As to the mode of my advent at the Davenport Guppy
stance in Great Marlborough-street, it is not necessary for me
to give any further answer to the assertion which Mr. Guppy
so impudently repeats. Mrs. Edmunds, whose obduracy in re¬
ference to the phenomena, proved much less than my own,
and whom, accordingly, by way of contrast to myself, you
have at page 202 described as “ a lady in every sense of the
word, and a physical medium,” has had her eyes a little opened
by the recent allegations. She happens to he in a position to
prove that she did not even call upon Mrs. Guppy, as has heen
so wantonly alleged in your colwnns, and she writes by this post
to give a catagorical denial to the whole of the insolent story
which has been fabricated upon that groundwork.
As Mr. Guppy has availed himself of your liberality to
occupy two columns and a half more in throwing dirt at Mr.
Bennett, Mr. J. Spear, Miss Houghton, Mrs. Edmunds, and
myself, and, moreover, has constituted himself the high priest
of Spiritualism, some of your readers may expect me to reply
to matters which he has newly-imported. I therefore add the
following remarks:—
|i I knew nothing whatever of Mr. or Mrs. Guppy, and did
not consider myself as in any way their guest. I went as
a scientific observer and critic to witness a private exhibition
by the Davenport Brothers. I understood that that exhibition
was paid for by my inviter, just as my wife and self paid for
seeing them publicly at St. George’s Hall; and I understood
that Mr. Guppy, who had been mixed up with the Davenports,
had found rooms, these rooms being used simply in order to
prevent gossip among the servants at my inviter’s own house.
It is true that I neither expected nor received any professional
fee for the attendance at Great Marlborough-street, but I had
not the honour to be on terms of private intimacy with the
right honourable gentleman by whom I was asked to be
present. If that gentleman and his wife were at Great Marl¬
borough-street, as Mr. Guppywrites, in the capacity of friends
at “ a private party in his own rooms,” he will be justified in
asking them to write me a private note endorsing his repre¬
sentations. Upon receipt of such a letter, I will, without
publishing it in any way, at once recant anything which may
require it. But I do not consider that I am in a position to
trouble this lady and gentleman, or to ask them to intervene
in a squabble with Mr. Guppy the more especially as their
letters have been examined by Mr. Wallace, who has the con¬
fidence of all sincere Spiritualists, and their contents are fully
vouched for. Indeed, I should not have ventured to use the
extracts from their letters but for the fact that the matter was
dragged before the public more than once, and such impu¬
tations were cast upon the conduct of Mrs. Edmunds and
myself as to make me believe that the irregularity thus com¬
mitted would be deemed excusable by their writers. I have
only to add that unless Mr. Guppy produces some vouchers
for any future assertion that he may make, I shall not think
it incumbent upon me to reply.
2. As to Mr. Spear’s “trance,” and the “delineation” to
which he gave utterance, Mr. Guppy has the hardihood to
suggest that it was produced after “ two or three glasses of the
Doctor’s good wine,” and in consideration of “ the well under¬
stood compliment of one guinea.” I have only to say that I
had no knowlege of Mr. Spears’ speciality, and no anticipation
that I should become the subject of this extraordinary “ mani¬
festation,” that I never saw Miss Houghton’s manuscript, or
read the delineation until I saw it in print; that neither Mr.
Spear, nor Miss Houghton ever took a glass of wine at my
house, or received from me any payment or consideration either
directly or indirectly. Inasmuch as the “trance” occurred
before the whole committee, and Mr. Spear appeared before it
as a well-known and highly respectable “ trance medium,”
and the result was written down at the moment in short
hand by an auxiliary medium, herself celebrated for writings
and drawings, I confess that I do not see how any “ mani-
festationV’ could be more “ authentic ” or “ well-defined.”
Does Mr. Guppy mean that Mr. Spear tried to humbug the
committee and myself ? If so, how are outsiders to know who
are genuine mediums ? Is the mendacity which I have had
to correct in these letters the real characteristic of a sincere
Spiritualist? Or is a genuine Spiritualist one who, having
“eight or nine years ago” given “mundane refreshment,”
and the comforts of a home to a friend who was not at the
moment in good feather, now publishes the fact in a news¬
paper ? My own opinion of Mr. Spear and Miss Houghton
was that they were good-natured enthusiasts, who mistook
their own romantic imaginings for spirit promptings. But I
never took either Mr. or Mrs. Guppy for enthusiasts, nor do I
think that they are the persons to cast the first stone at Mr.
Spear or at Miss Houghton.
I believe that there is a great mass of spiritualistic belief,
and even of spiritualistic performance which, with all defer¬
ence to both Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, is not roguery but delusion.
If this delusion is curable, the cure is to be accomplished by
giving the performers plenty of rope, and by temperate yet
fearless exposure at their absurdities. The answer to my
opinions, when they proved adverse, would have been that I
was destitute of those special gifts of mind which are required
for the perception of the phenomena. I was, therefore, duly
grateful for an authentic and well defined “ spiritual manifes¬
tation,” which demonstrated at the commencement that I had
just the gifts which were required for investigating the sub¬
ject, and enabled me afterwards to anticipate a thrust which,
otherwise, I could not have parried. Of course, Mr. Guppy
now throws dirt at Mr. Spear, but considering Mr. Guppy’s
long and varied experience in such affairs, the dirt has not
been thrown so judiciously as might have been expected. I
have never myself had the advantage of any private conversa¬
tion with either Mr. Spear or Miss Houghton; but if this is
all the dirt which can be thrown at them by Mr. Guppy, after
an intimacy of eight or nine years, they must be most respect¬
able people. This correspondence notwithstanding, I have
through this inquiry been enabled to make the acquaintance
of many ladies and gentlemen, who, differing entirely from
myself in their conclusions, yet have shown a sincerity and
earnestness for which I have the highest respect.
I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient Servant,
James Edmunds..
4, Fitzroy-square, W., Jan. 1872.
[The circumstances of the case may be thus summed up:—1. That more
than two years ago, three members of Parliament and their friends wished
for a private siance with the Davenports. 2. That Dr. Edmunds had an
invitation to be present from one of the M.P.’s. 3. That Dr. Edmunds was
an entire stranger to Mr. Guppy, and not on terms of intimacy with his
inviter, 3. That the Davenports made no charge for the siance, and that
the company were the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Guppy. 4. That as only one
of the Davenports came, it was proposed that an ordinary siance should be
held instead, and Mrs. Guppy kindly consented to this unexpected demand
on her mediumship. 5. That it was a poor siance at which flowers came,
not under test conditions. 6. That after a silence of two years Dr. Edmunds
cited the circumstances in print and brought the charges of imposture.
7. That whenever there have been reasons of sufficient importance to induce
Mrs. Guppy to take the trouble to give stances to private individuals under
stringent test conditions, she has done so. 8. That somebody must have
had to ask Mrs. Guppy for permission to introduce Dr. and Mrs. Edmunds
to their house as guests. 9. That Mrs. Guppy and Dr. Edmunds flatly
contradict each other as to who made the request, and the hon. gentleman
who may be able to decide between the two keeps silence.—Now we regret
that these personal things have been introduced into these pages at all, and
will not publish any more letters from either Dr. Edmunds or Mr. Guppy
containing personal attacks on each other. In the above letter we have
struck out the name of the medium who Dr. Edmunds says “ seemed ’’ to be
playing impudent tricks, because of the charges he has previously made
against good and honest mediums; those assertions made us attack him
with a severity we regret.—Ed.]
Sir,—In your November number a Spiritualist and recent con¬
vert to Catbolicism, claims for her Church, in fervid and graceful
terms the merit, as she deems it to be, of having ever from its
earliest days maintained the practise of praying for the dead;
and because spirits have come to certain spiritual circles asking
to be prayed for, and ‘ ‘ telling how high and blessed spirits,
purged through pain, pray for us sinners perpetually before
God,” she has arrived at the conclusion that the Roman
doctrines of purgatory, and of the efficacy of masses for the
souls of the dead, are confirmed by Spiritualism. Now this
conclusion is grounded on an assumption which cannot, I
think, be too much deprecated—one which has ever been the
chief source of superstition—the assumption that every com¬
munication proceeding from the spirit-world is to be
received as truth. Were A. E. H. to extend her experience
of such communications somewhat further, she would find in
them absolute contradiction of the doctrine to which she
has yielded credence, as well as affirmation of the truth of
every religion. Whatever may be the cause, this unfor¬
tunately is undeniably the case; until, therefore, through
better understanding of the laws of communication with
invisible intelligences, some criterion of truth, if attainable,
be attained, Spiritualists would • do wisely in abstaining from
citing spiritual authority in proof or disproof of any particu¬
lar doctrine, to whatever extent each individual may accept
for himself, that coming from such a source, which appears
to him intrinsically reasonable, or reject that which he
regards as unreasonable. To the vast majority of Spiritualists
the doctrine of purification by physical torture appears in the
most extreme degree unreasonable; “to fast in fires,” as
Father Newman expresses it; can, it seems to them, produce
no other effect on the mind than frantic madness, while the
idea that Such punishment can be ordained by God, and in
part remitted at the instance of mortals who mollify his
heart by dint of passionate and reiterated prayer, involves,
as they think, conceptions of the Divine attributes not raised
above those of uncivilised man. That such a doctrine should
persist in the present day would be to them unaccountable
did they not know how potent over reason may be the spells of
faith, how as a leaf of gold thin to impalpability, yet when laid
on base material, gives to it the appearance of the precious
metal, so high sounding religious sophistry can, to eyes that
look not beyond the surface, cast on dogma the most hideous
an attractive hue. Compare the doctrine of purification by
the torture of fire, and of release from it through the prayers
of men, with that which we find in the greater number of
spirit communications, with the doctrine that punishment in
the next stage of existence will be simply evil directly and
necessarily flowing from sin, that it must be by our own
efforts, by exercise of the higher parts of our nature, and sub¬
jugation of the lower, that we can be raised and purified,
which, I ask, is the more consonant to reason, and to the moral
sense? It is, doubtless, true that the Church of Rome has
retained sensitiveness to influences from the invisible world
far more than has done the Reformed Church. In the former
that sensitiveness has been fostered at the expense of the in¬
tellectual faculties, while in the latter opposite influences have
prevailed; modern Protestant thought has been permeated by
scientific culture, and scientific culture has numbed the sense
of the spiritual. Protestantism, after having relegated the
action of the supernatural to those regions and those times
over which hang the haze of distance and the shadows of many
ages, among a race strange to us in all ways, now either seeks
to explain even the miracles of those early days on rationalistic
principles, or passes them over in silence, feeling them, as has
been confessed in a remarkable sermon by a distinguished
bishop, to be “ drags” rather than “ bulwarks” to the Church,
which thus verily stands outside, as A. E. H. expresses it, “ in
the chilling dimness of a semi-rationalism.” But because the
Church of Rome “ has never ceased to hold unbroken inter¬
course with the unseen,” it is very far from following that she
is, therefore, enabled to transmit Divine truth, “ pure and un¬
sullied,” for besides the variety of doctrine in the present day
derived from such a source, it is evident to persons who have
compared the spiritual phenomena witnessed by themselves,
with those recorded in the past, that intercourse with the un¬
seen has been the origin of all false theologies. A Spiritualist
may very well believe that Ignatius Loyola beheld transub-
stantiation take place, without uttering his opinion concerning
that mystery, for he has equal ground for belief in the appari¬
tion to Mahomet of the angel Gabriel. The founder of the
order of Jesus has not described his vision in terms more ex¬
pressive of profound and fervid faith than those in which the
founder of Islamism has described the messenger from above,
who appeared to him and “ wrote the Coran on his heart.”
Instead of confirming the truth of any particular religion,
it appears to me that Spiritualism shows the adherents of all
religions that they have much to learn and to unlearn, that
spiritual truth has ever been obscured and distorted by the
channels through which it has passed, or by the interpreta¬
tions put on it; that until we know more of the laws govern¬
ing intercourse with another sphere, and until mediums appear
fitted by rare spirituality of nature for communion with
exalted intelligences, we cannot hope for any great influx of
light touching a higher power and life beyond the grave.
Meanwhile, it is no small thing that Spiritualism should be
affording proof of the reality of a future state of existence.
J. H. D.
Jan. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
7
"What the People say about the Children', and what
the Children sax about Canada. By Maria S. Bye.
London : J. Wade. 187,1.
For several generations past, certain laws of Great
Britain, made to subserve the private interests of a
limited number of landowners, great capitalists/law¬
yers, and ecclesiastics, have brought nearly all the land
and wealth in the kingdom into the hands of a very few
people. The result has been the depopulation of rural
districts of agricultural labourers, the concentration of
the population in great overcrowded cities, the degra¬
dation of the vitality and stature of the race, fierce
competition in business, an abnormal amount of pau¬
perism, unlimited unhappiness to the whole mass of the
people, and general national decay and demoralisation.
Miss Bye, like many other good people, works to re¬
move a small portion of the suffering caused by bad
legislation, without touching the cause or the root. She
has snatched many hundreds of little children, chiefly
girls, from the life or death awaiting them in England,
and has transplanted them to Canada. The little tract,
price sixpence, now under notice, contains some scores
of letters from the children in Canada, stating how well
they are doing there, and as Miss Bye is still carrying
on her good work, the letters will be of considerable
interest to all persons who wish to brighten the future
prospects of poor children. When the laws permit
land to be bought and sold like other property, without
legal delays, impediments, or expenses; when the Bank
Charter Act of 1844 is repealed; and when the scores of
other laws in the Statute-book made to enrich certain
people at the expense of the nation at large, are made
honest, we may hope to see the‘present national suffer¬
ing slowly removed. In the meantime, heavy responsi¬
bility rests upon the heads of our legislators.
The Alpha: a Bevelation, but no Mystery. By
Edward N. Denpys. Fourth Edition. London:
J. Burns. 1871.
This is a book which has been reprinted and issued by
Mr. A. C. Swinton, late Secretary to the Kilburn
Society of Spiritualists, because he believes its teach¬
ings calculated to benefit the world to a very large
extent, if they were carried out in practice, and there
is no doubt that he is right. The Alpha is not a book
for hasty reading; it is full of philosophy and deep
thought, and deals with such vital questions as the
origin of evil, the removal of evil from the world by the
exercise of intelligence and love, the first principles of
religion, the principles which should be followed in the
government of nations to ensure the greatest happiness
to the greatest number, the reduction of true and arti¬
ficial religions to their simplest elements, and the
influence of conventional laws relating to labour and
property. The subjects considered are of such weight,
that most of them demand a whole book rather than a
chapter, to handle thoroughly. We recommend the
Alpha as a book which deserves the long-continued
study of thinking people. So far as the printing is
concerned, there is too free a use of capital letters and
italics. We hope to have room to publish some extracts
from this work shortly.
LIVING AND DEAD SPIRITUALISM.*
BY GERALD MASSEY.
“ Hitherto, so it seems to me, we have only had the merest
glimpse of that which is possible, even the Christian revela¬
tion remaining to he revealed in its most spiritual aspect.
The very corner-stone has been rejected by the builder; so
little has the world realised the main truth of Christ’s mis¬
sion, which was to hook-and-eye the two worlds together. He
rent the veil asunder which divided the visible and invisible
worlds. But it has been carefully drawn together again and
darned over by our English Protestant mind, until it is
denser than ever—thickened like a cataract over the eyesight
—and there is spiritual darkness often worse than that of the
heathen world. How seldom has the spiritual life, where it
has flowered at all, been more than a graft from without,
instead of a root and branch, life of the life, blossoming
straight out of the Eternal! How often has the Divine pre¬
sence been made to brood over humanity with a solemn
shadow of religious awe that darkened and depressed, instead
of a loving illumination on the face of man, which is the glory
of God.
“ What is the upshot of all the spiritual teaching hitherto ?
Is it such a sense of the other world that the selfish concerns
of this are dwarfed and rebuked in its majestic presence ?
Why, I find the mass of so-called religious people don’t want
•to believe in the spirit-world, save in the abstract, or other¬
wise than as an article of their creed. Their first feeling is to
draw down the blinds against any fight on the subject. They
accept a sort of belief in it, on authority—a grim necessity—
it’s best to believe, in case it does exist after all; but they
give the lie to that belief in their lives and in presence of such
facts as we place before them—
“ ‘ Half trusting there may he no other world,
How many travel toward it backward hurled!
And oh! the coward outcry—the wild wail
If it hut turn on them and lift the veil! ’
“ The other world, is something to be believed in so long as
it is afar off, but to be doubted and rejected if it chance to
draw near. ’Tis distance lends enchantment to their view.
' Many good people appear to think that we must wait until
•death before we can get at the spirit-world ; as though we
* From Concerning Spiritualism. By Gerald Massey, London: J. Bums,
1871.
could only touch bottom in eterhity by grave-digging | We
hold that the entrance to the spirit-world is in life. We are
in spirit-world from birth, not merely after death; we are
immortal now if ever, and must be dwellers in eternity,
which is Here, and Now, however we close our eyes to it, and
so be self-shut out of it. Where do you think the spirits of
Dante, Shakespeare, and Milton were, when they were
absorbed beyond all outer consciousness by some intense
vision, unless in spirit-world, seeing by spiritual illumination
and working by spiritual aid ? They did not perceive their
glorious creations rise before the eye of Sense ! The apparent
distance of the other world from this lies in our living so
much in the outer world of Sense, existing so intensely on the
surface, and in being so wide-awake to the things of this
world.
“ Our orthodox spiritual teachers have arrested and made
permanent the passing figure, and permitted the eternal
essence of the meaning to escape. So often have they taken
the beautiful metaphors of Christ and crushed them cruelly—
robbed them of their spiritual-wingedness and freedom of the
infinite—-ground them down into the dust of earth to make
standing ground of; and they have left the most precious
part of the revelation, the eternal principles of it, as though
these were the sheerest metaphors, only meant for figures of
speech. They have deified the symbol on earth in place of
the God in heaven ; they have taken hold of Christ by the
dead hand, and lost sight of the living Lord. They have
kept the world at the foot of the Cross, gazing on the image
of past suffering, instead of turning its eyes on that cruci¬
fixion daily going on in the legalised murder of the poor man,
who wears the image of the living Christ and is the lifelong
bearer of the Cross. They have so often come between us
and the pure white light of God’s love—shut out God from
his own house with pictures • painted on the window-panes ;
they have broken and discoloured that light from Heaven in
the distorting prism of their own personality. They have
turned the temple of God into a tomb, and buried Him there
alive in the way they have crushed and killed His Spirit by
their sealings of the letter.
“ St. Paul defines the business of the religious ministry as
serving the Spirit of the living God. But theirs is not the
living God. They have shut Him up in a Book and decreed
that He shall speak no more in this. His world, nor make any
further ‘ revelations of the Spirit,’ His ‘ revealing of Himself
to His people being now ceased.’ They tolerate Him so long
as He keeps silence and remains concealed. They build their
church over His grave ; and if He ever tries to speak in pro¬
test, as in Edward Irving’s Church, say it can’t be our God,
who is dead ; it must be the voice of the Devil—silence Him.
They remind us of Luther, who affirms that he had a seance
with a spirit, who argued him out of the Popish practice of
saying private masses daily. Being a spirit, it must be the
Devil! Their antiquarian Christianity would think more
to-day of identifying the stable at Bethlehem, or of finding
the seven-branched candlestick that was taken by Titus
out of the Jewish temple, than of any opening into spirit-
world or manifestation of the living God. They have
dwelt with theological abstractions, outside of flesh and
blood, until they have almost parted company with the con¬
sciousness of ordinary humanity, and have lost all power of
making the Word flesh to dwell with men. The force that
was once spiritual is no longer even vital, but merely a
mechanical force that fails to move souls, and only causes
a few galvanic twitchings and genuflexions in those who carry
their religion about with them externally. Only the other
day I heard a Bishop declare that the dead had neither part
nor lot in the affairs of this life till the Judgment day. Not
long since I heard a Ritualist announce that the shortest and
surest way of getting at God was to eat Him when you had
secured His. presence, for this occasion only, in a consecrated
wafer. Here was a physical fact which you could lay hold of,
whatsoever the spiritual uncertainty might be. They have
sought to make out a religion good for the next world, but of
very little service in saving this world; they have continually
hindered our doing the best in this life, and arrested the work
of this world until, they could agree as to the only true way
of getting to the next world, and the only agreement they
could come to was, to fight it out. They have assumed that
God never had but one Son, and all the rest of us, whom
Christ taught to pray to ‘ Our Father,’ are only poor bastards
of the Devil. They assert that God has never spoken but
once in this w'orld of His, and made them His chosen and sole
mouthpiece for evermore. Can you tell me what they have
done or are doing to realise and vitalise that belief in the
unseen world—that possible communication between the two
lives of which the Bible furnishes so many illustrations ?
They have ignored it altogether; they have been afraid of it ;
they have tried to block up the doorway; they have been the
very rulers of this world’s darkness in shutting out spiritual
influences. They have laboured as sedulously in trying to
stop the other world as ever the Roman Cardinals did to
atop the on-going of this when it was proclaimed by Galileo.
They have mainly built their embodied belief on the arrested
and incrusted stream of spiritual life, as the Russians build
their Winter Palace on the ice of their river Neva. But the
breaking up of the long frost is coming. There is a riving and a
rending of the theological structure; the pent-up air is strug¬
gling to get free ; the other world is working through ; the
foundations of things are about to be shaken—not the eternal
foundations, they are safe enough—but the temporary foun¬
dations of ice and sand on which men had built for eternity.
When the wave breaks, it is only the form that goes to wreck;
the spirit of motion lives and passes on transformed. And so
is it with these tidal waves of the eternal, one of which is
now breaking on the shore of time.
“ I verily believe that there is about to be such a spiritual
revelation and real revival of religious life as the world has
not seen for eighteen centuries! We are going to have a great
gathering-in of the outsiders. Not that these outsiders will
be gathered in to any of the churches, which have become
stone graves of a living God, and yet they will be safely
gathered in by the Good Shepherd who said, 1 Other sheep
I have who are not of this fold.’
‘These ■will not sit and starve among the dead,
When they can share with us the living bread.
The skull of a dead past they will not drain,
Who can be nourished by the living brain.
How should they stoop beneath your low dark porch,
With heavens of angels round them for a church ? ’
“ Spiritualism will make religion infinitely more real, and
translate it from the domain of belief to that of life. It has
been to me, in common with many others, such a lifting of
the mental horizon and a letting in of the heavens—such a
transformation of faiths into facts—that I can only compare
life without it to sailing on board ship with hatches battened
down, and being kept a prisoner, cribbed, cabined, and con¬
fined, living by the light of a candle—dark to the glory over¬
head, and blind to a thousand possibilities of being, and then
suddenly, on some splendid starry night allowed to go on deck
for the first time, to see the stupendous mechanism of the
starry heavens all aglow with the glory of God, to feel that
vast vision glittering in the eyes, bewilderingly beautiful, and
drink in new life with every breath of this wondrous liberty,
which makes you dilate almost large enough in soul to fill the
immensity that you see around you.”
A SEANCE IN THE HOUSE OF DR. EDMUNDS.*
BY MR. SERJEANT COX.
“The most remarkable experiment we witnessed, chanced,
strangely enough, to have been tried at Dr. Edmunds’ house,
on the 3rd March, 1871, in the dining-room, with a dining-
table twelve feet long by five feet wide and unusually heavy.
After several violent motions, while hands were upon it, the
experiment was tried of motion without contact. To secure
this condition, all present turned the backs of their chairs to
the table, and knelt upon, and placed their hands on the backs
of the chairs so turned. Gas was burning brightly above the
table. In this position, which made contact by any person
impossible without detection by the others, the table lurched
five times over spaces varying from two inches to six inches,
the hands being held further from the table at each experi¬
ment, until they were placed three feet from it. The party
then stood round the table, all holding hands, and at each
trial withdrawing further from it, until they finally stood at a
distance of nearly four feet from the table. Again it lurched,
at each trial, over still greater spaces. The extent of these
motions will be understood when it is stated that, at the close
of them, the table was turned completely rou/nd, that is to say,
the end that was at the bottom of the room at the beginning
of the experiment was at the head of it at its close, a space of
not less than twelve feet having been thus traversed by this
unusually ponderous table, in full light, and when no person
present could by any possibility have touched it. It is cer¬
tainly remarkable that the most conclusive evidence myself
and the scientific investigators have yet had of motion without
contact, should have been obtained in that house, where
we had, of course, the most perfect assurance that no
deception by prior arrangements of mechanical contrivance
could be suggested as an explanation of this decisive ex¬
periment. Ed. Wm. Cox.
“ 36, Russell-square.”
MRS. GUPPY’S MEDIUMSHIP.
We quote the following letters from the Report of the Com¬
mittee of the Dialectical Society on Spiritualism :—
SEANCE WITH THE SPIRITUAL SOCIETY OF FLORENCE.
“ The sea/nce opened with a message—' It has been asked in
this society if spirits can distinguish colours; we will show
you.’
“ A noise was heard on the table, and the light showed a
heap of sugar plums of all colours mixed together—about a
handful. Light put out again ; we heard a rattling ; lighted
the candle, and found the sugar plums all assorted in little
heaps of separate colours. Samuel Guppy.”
ANOTHER SEANCE WITH THE SAME SOCIETY.
“ The room, at my request, had been made very warm, as
at the previous stance we were shivering. Some of the most
eminent Florentine literati were present. First came a
shower of fresh flowers, which fell all about the table while
Mrs. Guppy’s hands were held. The light was put out again,
and in ten minutes an awful crash was heard on the table, as
if the chandelier had fallen down. On lighting the candle,
we found a large lump of beautiful ice, about a foot long and
one and a-half inches thick, which had fallen on the table
with such force that it was broken. It began to melt immedi¬
ately, and was put into a dish. This was more than an hour
after the beginning of the stance, in which time the ice would
have melted had it been in the room. Samuel Guppy.”
TEST SEANCE WITH MR. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE, MRS. TROL¬
LOPE, MISS BLAYDEN, AND COL. HARVEY.
“ First, the room was searched by the gentlemen while Mrs.
Guppy was being undressed and redressed in the presence
of Mrs. Trollope, every article of her dress being closely
examined.
“ We sat at the table, Mrs. Guppy firmly held both hands,
by Mr. Trollope and his wife, while Colonel Harvey and Miss
Blayden held my hands and touched Mrs. Guppy’s. In about
ten minutes all exclaimed, ‘ I smell flowers,’ and a shower of
flowers came. On lighting the candle, the whole of Mrs.
Guppy’s and Mr. Trollope’s hands and arms were found
covered with jonquil flowers. The smell was quite overpower¬
ing. The doors had been locked, the window fastened. Had
a bunch of jonquils been in the room before the sea/nce it
would have been detected by the smell.
“Samuel Guppy.”
“ Mrs. Guppy went to a seance at the Ambassador’s, Sir
Augustus Paget; present, Lady Paget, Count and Countess
Moltki, and a daughter of Sir Digby Murray; They held
Mrs. Guppy firmly, and asked for a noise ; and there was a
loud concussion on the wall like a gun. Flowers were after¬
wards brought. Samuel Guppy.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
T., Isle of Wight.—Your communication is a very great' deal too
long.
Dn. Edmunds.—The other letter you speak of, from Mrs. Edmunds,
has not reached us in time for publication this month. Last
month we had to delay the printing of the paper to get your
letter in, but did so, at very great inconvenience, lest you should
think you had been unfairly treated by the interposition of a
month’s delay. Your letters are further delayed in reaching us
because you send them to the printing instead of to the pub¬
lishing office. We shall be glad at all times to receive from you
scientific information bearing on Spiritualism, but communica¬
tions from all correspondents must necessarily be brief.
Mr. Pearce, Secretary to the St. John’s Association, sent a letter to
the Medium for publication, stating that the assertions of that
journal about our reporter, which we referred to last month, had
no foundation whatever. The editor suppressed the letter, and
repeated the unfounded charge.
* From the Report of the Committee of the Dialectical Society on
Spiritualism. (Longmans, 1871.)
8
THE SPIRITUALIST
Jan. 15, 1872.
im
FACTS FOB. NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Bach individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM: DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has .never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham; Alfred B. 'Wallace, Esq., Holly House, Bark¬
ing; Professor He Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, E.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Yietoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square."
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Mattel' to Spirit (Longmans), where' she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Mr G. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
pngjiijig. a,dd^esSi ^President
i^f idhe"' British Assocmtibii at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr.. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist.: Professor Hare, of .Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of'the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
.bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S. (editor of The Quarterly
Journal of Science1), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Royal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Booh of Nature, by G. 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
'Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
.says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing .age?—No;, for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism 1 see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any Of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in-the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational Converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury, to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established eharScter. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one'
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
’When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Sviritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
iust the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT,.CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At' the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:-—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
B
RITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
FOR EFFECTING
BANKING LIFE, & SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES
ON GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.
Head Offices:
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices
20, King William-street, London, E.C.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Renfleld-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, Dublin.
1, Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARE
It provides Government Security for the Life Premium
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses of Management, Reserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-valve endorse on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their "Surrender-values" can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospecuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations_of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Gr. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling,
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may
honour him with their patronage, they can be
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St James's Street.
£
Trousers, from ...   0
Vests
Black Suit, from
Unrivalled Black Doe
Tweed Suit 
s. d.
6
0
0 0
1 0
2 10 0
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
A
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Hey wood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street Russell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s.
Aaron franklin, preserver of
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox's heads,
shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
A YOUNG' LADY, aged 20, a Physical
Medium, desires a Situation in or near London
as GOVERNESS. Teaches English, Arithmetic, Music,
Singing, Rudimentary French and Drawing. Good
References. Address, C. M. M., 3, Oomwallis-road, Hol¬
loway, N.
Footfalls on the boundary
OF ANOTHER WORLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition. Post 8vo. Pp. XX—392. Cloth
7s. 6d.
The debatable land between
THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT.—By Robert
Dale Owen, Author of “ Footfalls on the Boundary of
another World.'1 1 vol. crown 8vo. cloth. Price 9s.
Now Ready, Crown 8vo., pp. viii. 120, cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Hints for the evidences of
SPIRITUALISM.” By M. P.
London: Triibner and Co., 8 and 60, Patemoster-row
Now Ready. 4th Edition. 8vo. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s. 6d
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Revelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow.”—
Athenseum.
“It contains more truth,poetry, philosophy, and logic,'
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
“ The ‘ Alpha ’ is the book of an age."—Banner of Light, i
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTURES,” cloth
8vo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d.
J. BURNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.O.
Now ready, price 4s.
The journal of the anthro-
POLOGIAL INSTITUTE OF GREAT BRITAIN'
AND IRELAND, No. H. October 1871, containing,'
papers by Major Godwin-Austen on the Khasi Hill
Tribes; Rev. Dr. Callaway on Divination, &c., among the
Natives of Natal; Mr. F. G. N. Price on the Quiss'ama
Tribe of Angola; Lieut. Musters, R.N., on the Races of
Patagonia; Mr. Hodder Westropp on Analagous Coin:.
cidences among unconnected Nations; Mr. H. Ho worth
on Westerly Driftings of Nomades; with Discussions
and Anthropological Miscellanea. London: Triibner
and Co.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Reports and Minutes of the.Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence.two andcohlrd,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de PbmSrV
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmimds, Kidd,
Robertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr. Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson, Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani Ldon Favre, Camille
Flammarion, Hain FrisweU, D. D. Home, William
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkifis_
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varloy, A. R. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell Hardinge, Houghton, &c.,' &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
17MANUEL SWEDENBORG: - HIS
li LIFE AND WRITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular ‘Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper.
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST.—No. 1 of The
Spiritualist contains an overwhelming weight of
evidence for the general public, as to the truth and
reality of Spiritual phenomena. No. 13 contains the
leading arguments in favour of and against the theory
that the manifestations are due to Satanic agency.
No. 26 contains the Official Report of the Committee of
the Dialectical Society on Spiritualism, the result of two
years investigation.
London : E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN¬
QUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of j
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
(tfuntents.
Messrs, herne and williams,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.C.
MR. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAR, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
ville Road, N., or at the pupil's residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (comique), entitled ‘ Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. R. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini and the Cries of Animals in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle.
Beveridge & fraser, Printers of
The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
“ The Spiritualist" Newspaper   I
Spiritual Manifestations in Mr. Henry Ward Beecher’s
Church         1
The Systematic Appearance of Spirits at Stances ... 1
A Familiar Spirit  3-
Spiritualism and the Devil   ... 3
Miss Kate Fox's Mediumship  4
Dogmatism in Science     4
The Royal Institution...   4
Religious Bigotry  ... 4
Spirits Working a Sewing Machine   4
The Psychological Society    4
Unconscious Cerebration  4
Mysterious Stone Throwing ... —    ... 4
A Communication from Mr. Guppy   5
Dr. Edmunds and Mr. Coleman   5-
Messrs. Herne and Williams's Mediumship  5
The Royal Polytechnic Institution  5
Spiritualism and Psychic Force   5-
Dalston Society of Enquirers into-Spiritualism  5
New Books   5
Poetry :—Spiritualism   6
Correspondence : —The Paper by Dr. Edmunds ... 6
Reviews:—“What the People say about the Chil¬
dren, and what the Children say about Canada;”
“The Alpha: a Revelation, but no Mystery.” ... 7
Living and Dead Spiritualism    7
A Seance in the House of Dr. Edmunds  ... 7
Mrs. Guppy’s Mediumship...      7
Answers to Correspondents   7
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridqe & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published*
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.
