[Registered as a Newspaper,
joU^>rSi< 0^ ^^YCSO^OG^lCS^
<§Ib.esf foiifj Sphiiualism in dmti grifain.
THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C, PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 196.-—(VOL. VIII.—No, 21.) LONDON : FRIDAYj MAY 26j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontms.
Devil and Ghost Worship in Western India. By M. J.
Walhouse, F.R.A.S    241
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Clairvoyant
Revelations—Lord Clarendon's Account of the Appari¬
tion of Sir George Villiers—The Church-haunting Spirit
at York—The Appearance of the Spirit of a Dying Woman
—Reincarnation?—The Travelling of the Spirit during
the Sleep of the Body—Sensations Experienced in Mo¬
ments of Extreme Bodily Danger—The Ghost at York... 243
A Spirit Materialising Four Days after Death. By William
Oxley  • 246
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances:—Strong Manifestations while
the Medium was Closely Sewn in a Bag  247
Severe Treatment of Medial Scandal-mongers by Spirits... 247
A Curious Electrical Experiment at a Seance. By William
H. Harrison   ... 248
An Explanation of the “Ghost” Mystery at York  248
The Materialisation of Spirits in Manchester. By C.
Reimers ...       249
Annual Meeting of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists:—The Annual Report—Annual Conference—Dis¬
cussion Meetings—Seances—Prize Essays—Alliance of
Kindred Societies—Election of New Members of Coun¬
cil—Miscellaneous Business    250
Poetry:—Life—not Death. By R. A. Cox   252
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Northumberland and
Durham—Mr. Eglinton in Manchester—Remarkable
Mould of a Materialised Spirit Hand—A Materialisation
Seance—Wax Moulds from Temporarily Materialised
Spirit Hands 252
Paragraphs:—The Religion of the Kafirs, 249; Reception
at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory's, 251; A Death Warning,
251; Spiritualism in Liverpool, 251; Mr. J. J. Morse in
the Provinces  251
Cb Smntaitst gbtosptter,
^Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
^ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement a Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisowients,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreoverj the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the] first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondb par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
-# 
EIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays^ then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniag.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
Reduced to Half-price!
CjERMONS by T. L. HARRIS. London Series.
Containing—I.—Modern Spiritualism.
II.—Heart Wants of London.
IIL—Christ Incarnate.
IV.—Liberty and Progress.
In limp cloth binding, 6d.; free by post, 7d.
John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow, and Mrs. Connor,
15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool,
RALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
B arrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for tbe Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Ilmorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms .-—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can |only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the frst Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of tbe
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several ywdl-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. Ali;the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
i- '* To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facte respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road j Dalston, E A
stamped addressed envelope should he enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the.library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on Hie last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
rpRE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE H OMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “We can call to mind few books fit to he its
fellows.”—Athenseum. “ It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
1 PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What ia Man ? The one
thing" desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
Tbe Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment ; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will he supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E, W. Allen, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.O,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOUSBURY, W.C.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE BEADING BOOM AND LIBBAEY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects; by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
libiary. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained thiough any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spit itualists visiting England aro
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, id iss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
East London spiritoal meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman'n
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Cliurcli-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only. 
ST. MATTHEW’S, SPRING GARDENS
(near Cbaring'cross station). On the Sundays after
Easter a COURSE OF SERMONS will be preached by tie
Rev. Maurick Davies, D.D., on “The Apparitions of Christ
during the Great Forty Days; ” with special reference to their
bearing on the future that awaits us. Subjects—
1. April 23rd.—The Apparitions to the Women. The Nature
of the Resurrection-Body. Woman’s Faith and Love.
2. April 30th.—On the Emmaus Road. Man’s Despondency.
The Change in the Risen Body.
3. May 7th.—To the Ten. The Message of Peace to a Broken
Circle.
4. May I4th.—To the Eleven. The Doubter convinced. The
Believer blessed.
5. May 21st.—On the Sacred Beach. Links with the Past.
Loving Provisions for the Future.
6. May 28th.—On the Mount of Ascension. Last Farewells
Service commences at a quarter-past Eleven.
  S. Flood Jones, M.A., Incumbent.
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR INVES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to be held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-street. Usual
phenomena. Movement of objects in the light. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly offered his services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m., punctually.
Fee, 5s.   
Birmingham.—On whit-Monday a pic-
NIC of Spiritualists and their friends will he held at
the Lickey Hills. Departure from Granville-street Station at
9 a.m. Tickets, including fare and tea, Is. 9d., adults; and
children, Is. Dinner to be taken by individuals separately.
—R. HARPER.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of hia
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed‘in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hctts, shirts, and umbrellas.
l.i.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 26, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established#1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkflekl, Didsbuiy, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Liliau-yilla, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.T)., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.lt.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Itamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin K., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tempieman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wasou, James, Wasou’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. 1\, Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Iteigate.
Binney, F, A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.,11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-stroet, Bloomsbury.
Cooper,-R., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlhain-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. 11., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheatham, Manchester.
Fitzr-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North.
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6. Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kcnnington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, SirCharles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmoud-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate,Regent’s
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kerit-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. \Y.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham J unction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,'69, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine,near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdje' Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Gennany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Viconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Hohnteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh,26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi dq Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
. , U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna),13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompicrre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Ettcrbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,,
Brussels.
. Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Aldlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhlcr-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefetadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, St. Mary-
street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Viconde de Torres-Solanot.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The Bbitish National Association op Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, .called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was fonned in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M R.O.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. J ones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
he practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c,, used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &o
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.  
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rnHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
X GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only sue h articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
 row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely, scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. BinnCy.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
MR/CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
“IVTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
_L i Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m. ^
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
’VTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
_Ly Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambulist, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Hours, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. Cd. Physical
seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings
at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspon¬
dence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
PROFESSOR JAMES
Healer, 37, Hart-street,
W.C.
REGAN, Psychopathic
Bloomsbury-square, London,
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in
accordance with patient's means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appoiotment.
SUSIE FLETCHER, the great American
Trance Medium and Magnetic Healer, has taken rooms
at No. 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.O.,
where, during the month of June, she may be consulted.
Terms, one guinea. Treatment to the poor on Saturday morn¬
ings free. Will answer calls to lecture.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTBLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, Marshaiu a Oo.
ANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y.,*16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.
<v
iu tl JHljiijI tl J
VojLujvie Eiqht. Kumbeh Twenty-oj/e.
m
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 26th, 1876.
DEVIL AND GHOST WORSHIP IN WESTERN INDIA.*
BY M. J. ■WALHOUSE, F.K.A.S.
In Two Parts.—Part I.
Although the lower castes and classes in India acknow¬
ledge and reverence the Brahminical gods, their familiar
household cultus is much more especially addressed to in¬
ferior supernatural beings analogous to the evil spirits, devils,
ghosts, and goblins of European superstition. According to
Hindu doctrine there are ten classes of such beings, the first
seven of which are demons, created aboriginally with the
world, or by acts of the higher gods, on whom they wait as
attendants or servants, receiving some share of their worship,
and avenging any omission or neglect of ceremonies due.
Though not invariably, they are for the most part evilly-
disposed towards human kind, especially the female powers
amongst them, which are many. But the last three classes,
of whom more particularly it is now intended to speak, are
of exclusively human origin, being malignant, discontented
beings, wandering in an intermediate state between heaven
and hell, intent upon mischief and annoyance to mortals ;
chiefly by means of possession and wicked inspiration, every
aspect of which ancient ideas, as well as of the old
doctrine of transmigration, they exemplify and illustrate.
They are known by the names of Bhuta,f Preta, and Pisacha;
the first name being ordinarily applied to all three, and even
vulgarly to the seven superior classes. These beings, always
evil, originate from the souls of those who have died un¬
timely or violent deaths, or been deformed, idiotic, or insane;
afflicted with fits or unusual ailments ; or drunken, dissolute,
or wicked during life. The precise distinction between the
three classes is that the Preta is a ghost of a child
dying in infancy, or of one born deformed, imperfect or
monstrous; events attributed to neglect in performing cer¬
tain ceremonies prescribed during the ten days when,
according to popular notions, the limbs of the embryo are
forming in the womb : such a ghost becomes a misshapen,
distorted goblin. The Pisacha, on the other hand, is de¬
rived rather from mental characteristics, and is the ghost
of madmen, habitual drunkards, the treacherous and violent-
tempered, as though realising the idea that the evils that
men do live after them in the guise of malicious spirits.
Bhutas, however, emanate from those who • die in any
unusual way, by violence, accident, suicide, or sentence of
law; or who have been robbers, notorious evil-doers, or
dreaded for cruelty and violence. The death of any well-
known bad character is a source of terror to all his neigh¬
bourhood, as he is sure to become a Bhuta or demon, as
powerful and malignant as he was in life. Some of the
Bhutas now most dreaded were celebrated personages of old
days. All such persons on death are liable to become
Bhutas, and attach themselves to any beings of the higher
classes whom they first meet on entering the spirit-world,
and derive from them power and assistance in tormenting
and afflicting men and animals. As an example of how
forcibly this idea possesses the popular mind, I will read an
extract from a recent Indian newspaper:—il We learn from
a correspondent at Cochin that, a couple of days before the
Christmas holidays, a Hair of Chenganoor, in cold blood,
murdered his paramour on suspicion of her infidelity. The
noteworthy and strange feature of the case is, that when he
was taken up and arraigned before the Sessions Court, he
pleaded i guilty ’ to the charge, but earnestly implored that
the extreme penalty of the law, which he admitted he fully
deserved, might be carried out, not at the usual place of
* A paper read before the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain.
t Bhutas.—“ Malignant spirits, goblins, or ghosts, haunting cemeteries,
lurking in trees, animating dead bodies, and deluding and devouring human
beings.”—Thompson.
execution, but at the scene of his crime, in order that he
might, according to his theory of the transmigration of the
soul, assume the form and life of a 1 demon,’ and thereby
have full scope for revenging himself on the man and his
associates who were the cause of leading his unfortunate
victim astray.” It is also held that by certain ceremonies
and expiation this form of existence can be dissolved, and
the unquiet spirits remitted to regions of reward or punish¬
ment, according to their deserts on earth.
In their haunts and modes of appearance, Bhutas repeat the
popular beliefs of many countries. They wander borne upon
the air, especially in uninhabited, dry, and desert places;
and tall trees are a favourite abode. The third watch of the
night, or from twelve to three o’clock, is the time when they
wander abroad most freely, and belated travellers sometimes
meet them then in the shape of dark shadows. As the
ancient Jews would speak to none whom they met after
midnight, for fear they might be addressing a devil, so
Hindu villagers will speak to no one they may meet at that
time, lest he should be a Bhut, nor, indeed, willingly then
stir out of their houses. The eddies of wind that career over
plains in the hot weather, whirling up leaves and columns
of dust, and flickering lights seen gliding over marshes, are
regarded as Bhuts passing by. Objects seen indistinctly
moving in the dusk or mists, are attributed to them, and so,
indeed, are all visions
Of calling shapes and beckoning shadows dire,
And airy tongues that syllable men’s names
On sands, and shores, and desert wildernesses.
The Gools of Arabian superstition closely resemble
Bhutas, assuming monstrous shapes of men or animals, fre¬
quenting desert places and burial grounds, and feeding on
carcases.
The before-mentioned classes are believed more particu¬
larly to afflict human beings by entering into and possessing
them. Gaping or drawing deep breaths is supposed to give
them opportunities for this, and no Brahman ever gapes
without snapping his fingers before his mouth, as a charm
to prevent an evil spirit entering. After gaining an
entrance they seat themselves in the lower part of the
abdomen, and feed upon all the unclean excreta. Whilst so
dwelling they are held, by interrupting digestion and circu¬
lation of the humours, to cause fits, paralytic strokes, tem¬
porary aberrations, outbreaks of madness, cramps, and
rheumatic pains. All this closely tallies with the beliefs
regarding possession current amongst the Jews and early
Christians ; the former in particular believing that unclean
spirits, by reason of their tenuity, were inhaled and
insinuated themselves into the human body, injuring health
through the viscera, and forcing the patients to fulfil their
evil desires. The grosser parts of the body and all unclean
places were their especial abodes. Besides diseases and
bodily afflictions, the evil influence of Bhutas is believed to
occasion family discord, hatred between brothers, ill-temper
and gloominess, the death of children during the life of
parents, the non-survival of births, barrenness in women,
atheism, and neglect of religious ceremonies. Although,
properly speaking, they are not held to have power over
human life, the villagers and common people believe they
have, and outbreaks of disease, sudden deaths, and wasting
away are always ascribed to their malignant power. Cattle
diseases of every kind are invariably attributed to them, as
in Scotland and Ireland to elf-bolts, as celts and flint arrow¬
heads were called, and popularly supposed to be missiles
formed and discharged by malicious fairies : an imagination
commemorated by Collins in his Ode on Highland Super¬
stitions :
There every herd by sad experience knows
How, wing’d by fate, the elfshot arrows fly.
It may be readily conceived that superstitions like these,
entering into every part of daily life, would exercise a much
deeper influence over a sequestered, ignorant, rural popula¬
tion, than the loftier, more abstract Aryan conceptions ; and
they are also distinctly' Turanian, to which race the great
underlying stratum of the population of India appears to
have belonged, and over which the subsequent Aryan
invasion spread itself, each in the course of ages influencing
the other, characteristics of the one cropping up, and of the
other filtering down. All demonologies and ghost-systems
belong to the Turanian races, and are antagonistic to the
Aryan genius and feelings, though, after ages of intercourse
and blending, some of the superstitions of the lower race
may have crept into the intellect of the higher.*
In proceeding now to give some account of the ceremonies
and worship paid to the Bhutas, I shall confine myself prin¬
cipally to those current in Canara, on the western coast of
India. The same cultus, with some variations, obtains, how¬
ever, all over India and Eastern and Northern Asia; the
Bhuta belief being found everywhere under different names
and forms.
The edifices and observances connected with Bhuta wor¬
ship are both domestic and public. In villages, and very
generally in towns, there is in every house a wooden cot or
cradle, placed on the ground, or suspended by ropes or chains,
and dedicated to the Bhuta of the spot. On these are placed
a bell, a knife, or sword, and a pot filled with water, all
which are collectively called the Bhandara of the Bhuta, and
kept either in a part of the house itself, or in a small separate
building. The idea seems to be of placating the spirit that
haunts the spot by making a sort of abode for it, much in
the same way as the cream-bowl was nightly set for the
u drudging goblin,” or brownie, in England. On the last
day of every lunar month flowers are laid on the cot, and
perfume burnt before it; and once a year, towards the end
of April, a ceremony called Tambila is performed. First, a
fire is lit on the spot where the cot and paraphernalia stand,
to make it “shoodha,” £<2., clean ; then fried rice, mixed
with coarse sugar and grated cocoanut kernel, is heaped on
two plantain leaves, which are placed on the cot, together
with some young cocoanuts, pierced ready to drink from. A
ball is then formed of boiled rice, coloured yellow with
turmeric, and laid on a piece of plaintain leaf on a small
stool, which is placed before the cot, and a lighted torch
stuck on it. A fowl is held above the rice -bail and torch,
its throat cut, and the blood let drop upon the ball; some
perfume is burnt, and the ceremony ends. The cocoanuts
placed on the cot are then taken and dashed on the ground,
or cloven in half. If the pieces fall with the kernel upward,
it signifies the Bhuta is pleased with the offering ; if with
the kernel downward, the reverse. Should a member of the
family be stricken with any unusual attack, such as apoplexy,
paralysis, cholera, &c., or should disease break out amongst
the cattle, it is at once ascribed to the anger of the Bhut,
and a propitiatory sacrifice is offered. A fowl is turned three
times round before the patient’s face, its neck then twisted,
and the blood let fall upon him, and some rubbed on his
forehead and joints, the meaning being to offer life for life—
the fowl in lieu of the man. Powdered sandal-wood is then
sprinkled over the Bhuta’s cot, and water from the pot kept
there dashed upon the sick man’s forehead and eyes. The
family priest is then consulted, who, after much grave medi¬
tation, usually recommends alms to be given to himself to
satisfy the hostile stars, with a promise to perform a special
ceremony to the Bhuta, and give a banquet to all the patient’s
castemen should he recover. Medicine is not neglected, but,
in event of recovery, the credit is ascribed to the influence of
the Bhuta.
The general buildings dedicated to these demons are called
Bhutastans, and when dedicated to one of the superior, or
very popular Bhutas, sometimes of considerable size; but
far more commonly a small plain structure, four or five yards
deep, by two or three wide, with a door at one end, covered
by a portico supported on two pillars, with a thatched roof,
and windowless. In front of it there are usually three or
* A trace of this is, perhaps, seen in the Laws of Mann, where (xir. 71-2)
it is declared that a Kshatrya who neglects his duties will, at the after-birth,
be changed into a demon that feeds On ordure and carrion ; and a Sudra into
an evil being, that eats rotten carcases—that is, into Bhutas,
four T-shaped pillars, the use of which is not clear. They
are said to denote that the building is a Bhutastan, and
flowers are placed, and cocoanuts broken on them at cere¬
monies. It may be worth noticing that pillars of exactly
the same shape are found accompanying the mysterious
Balearic Talyots, the purpose of which has hitherto baffled
antiquaries. Inside the Bhutastan there is usually a number
of images roughly made in brass in human shape, or re¬
sembling animals, such as pigs,* tigers, fowls, &c. These
are brought out and worshipped as symbols of the Bhutas
on various ceremonial occasions. The Bhutas themselves
are usually represented by mere rough stones. Some of the
brass figures are now on the table, and the difference between
the Turanian and Aryan mind will appear on comparing
these rude village idols with images of the Brahmanical
gods. Brass basins, bells, a peculiarly-shaped sword, and
some other articles used at ablutions are also kept within.
These rustic fanes are thickly scattered over the face of the
country in very various situations—under a green tree, on
hill-sides, down in hollows, in jungles, on plains, by road¬
sides, in villages, amid rice-fields, but always on a small
plot of waste ground, which is kept uncultivated, like the
“guid-man’s croft” in Scotland. A rough drawing of one
of ordinary size and appearance is before the Society.
Once a year a festival called Kolia is held at the village
Bhutastan, in honour of the local Bhuta, at which all the
villagers attend. There is no fixed time for this, but the village
priest, after consulting with the principal inhabitants, deter¬
mines an auspicious day. This being settled, a tall pole is
fixed upright in the ground before the Bhutastan, and a flag,
that is always kept within, hoisted upon it. The Bhut’s
Bhandara, or paraphernalia, and the images, &c., are brought
out and cleaned, and a large fire kindled to purify the spot.
The festival always takes place at night, and about nine
o’clock all the villagers assemble in their best attire, the
women wearing all their ornaments, and their heads, as well
as often the men’s, thickly garlanded with flowers. Tom¬
toms and drums are beaten, and the Pujari, or Priest, takes
the Bhuta-sword and bell in his hands, and whirls round and
round, imitating the supposed mein and gestures of the
demon. But he does not aspire to full possession, which in
aboriginal rites like these, is only given to a representative of
the aboriginal tribes, now the lowest castes. A Dher, one of
the slave caste, at other times regarded with contempt, but now
advanced to the foremost post, comes forward naked, save a
waist-band, and with all his head and body grotesquely and
frightfully besmeared with white, yellow, and red paint.
Over his head, and tied to his back, there is a sort of an
arch, termed Ani, made of green-cocoa-tree leaves, with
their ends radiating out. For some time he paces up and
down, within a ring formed by the crowd, flinging about his
arms, gesticulating wildly, leaping, and shaking his body
furiously. Meanwhile a dozen or more tom-toms and drums
are beaten incessantly and stunningly, with a continually
increasing din; and the Dher presently breaks into a
maniac dance, capering, bounding, and spinning vehemently
whilst the instruments redouble their noise, the power of the
Bhuta being estimated by the fury and persistence with
which the Dher dances. The multitude around joins in
raising a long, monotonous, howling cry, with a peculiar
vibration. At length the Dher stops, he is full of the
demon, and stands fixed and rigid, with staring eyes.
Presently he speaks, or rather the demon speaks from him,
in loud, hoarse, commanding tones, wholly unlike his own,
or indeed any natural voice. He addresses the head man of
the village first, and then the principal inhabitants in due
order, for any neglect of etiquette on this point by the Bhuta
would infallibly give rise to great resentment. After thus
speaking to the principal villagers and asking whether all
the people are present, the possessed Dher goes on to say that
the Bhuta is pleased with the performance of the ceremony,
and exhorts all the people to behave justly and charitably to
one another. Various disputes and litigated matters, espe¬
cially when evidence and ordinary means of adjustment fail,
are then brought forward and submitted to the decision of
the Bhuta, and his award, pronounced through the Dher, is
* In the British Museum there are some marble images of swine, sacred to
Persephone, found in the temenos of the temple of Demeter at Cnidos. which
may have been offerings, like these Indian ones of brass,
242
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 26,1876.
Ma* 26, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
generally, though not always, submitted to. After this the
demon desires to have food, and the Dher eats fried rice, and
drinks the milk of young cocoa-nuts; or if the demon he
represents be one of low degree, he eats animal food and
drinks arrack. He then distributes areca flowers and pieces
of cocoa-nut to all assembled in due order of precedence, and
the Bhuta passes away from him, he loses his commanding
mien and tones, and relapses into the servile drudge. The
assembly then addresses itself to festivity; there is much
drinking of arrack, the drumming and wild music go on
vehemently, interminable songs are sung, and at the first
dawn the people disperse on all sides to their homes. The
houses and farmsteads -composing a village in Canara lie
widely scattered over a surface picturesquely diversified
with hill and hollow; and not unfrequently, when riding
over the country before sunrise, as Anglo-Indians do, I have
met long files and troops of people returning from these
nightly celebrations. They are a tall and comely race on
that western coast, and looking at the women, with their
many-coloured, classically-adjusted garments and garlanded
heads, I have thought that groups of Bacchantes or Msenads
descending from the valleys of Cithseron, where all night
long the tambour and cymbals had been resounding, and the
torches flaming beneath the pine trees, might not have been
so dissimilar to them, and that had we exact details of the
wild Bacchic orgies and rites of the Mighty Mother, manifes¬
tations might be disclosed not distantly akin to those now
witnessed in the East.* It may not even be too bold to con¬
jecture that a cultus springing from the same general idea,
namely, demons or the dead, speaking through the living,
may have existed in German and Gaulish forests or British
valleys in the ages before the Roman invasion; and that much,
looking that way, might have been picked up by any Latin
archeeologist who troubled himself about barbarian folk¬
lore. Csesar and Tacitus record only the names and rites of
the higher gods, just as the English in India know generally
something of Shiva and Yishnu, and the principal Brah-
manical deities, but seldom anything of the obscurer divinities
and worship of the common people.
It is indeed striking to survey how ancient and how widely
spread are the ideas and observances already described. In
Tinnevelly, the extreme southern province of the Indian
peninsula, the popular cultus is devil-worship, essentially the
same as the Bhuta-worship of Canara, and has been
described minutely by the Rev. R. Caldwell, of the Tinnevelly
Mission. There the devil-dancer, as the officiating person is
called, grotesquely arrayed and bedizened, dances, with
gradually increasing frenzy, to the quickening clamour of
drums and cymbals, whirling and leaping till the afflatus
descends ; then, when under full control of the demon, he is
worshipped as a present deity, and consulted by the bystanders
respecting their diseases, wants, and the welfare of absent
relations. Mr. Caldwell has also pointed out that all such
observances are identical, point for point, with the Shama-
nite worship of Siberia, the hill-tribes of South-western
China, and of Northern Asia, as the subjoined passage will
show:—“ When the Shaman, or magician, performs his
rites, he puts on a garment trimmed with rattles and bells,
he cries horribly, shakes his robe, beats a drum, whilst the
bystanders increase the din by striking on iron kettles.
When the Shaman by his contortions, yells, and whirling,
has succeeded in assuming the appearance of something
preternatural, the assembled multitude are impressed with
the belief that the demon has taken possession of him, and
regard him with wonder and dread. When quite exhausted,
he makes a sign that the spirit has left him, and then imparts
to the people the intimation he has received.” As Mr. Cald¬
well remarks, such identity of usages is evidence of a common
origin. I have witnessed oracular responses given under the
supposed control of a demon, after gesticulatory dances
amongst that peculiar tribe, often mentioned before this
Society, the Todas of the Nilgiri Hills. In Siam spirit-
dances are held in a shed built for the purpose, in which
* Circe, whose name is derived from the whirling, magic dance, with her
herd of transformed Bhuta-like votaries, may he also cited; and the Salii, or
leaping priests of early Rome. Compare, too, in Arabian story, the striking
picture in Southey’s “ Thalaba ” (Cant, ix.) of the terrible witch Khawla, pos¬
sessed by Eblis, and uttering inspired warnings after wild gyrations and a
b'oody sacrifice; a shadow of such rites may survive in the spinning Dervishes
to-day.
offerings are set out for the demon, who is invited by the
usual wild music to come down to the dance ; but there is
this peculiarity, that there the demon always enters a woman,
which is scarcely ever heard of in India. She herself does
not dance, but bathes and rubs herself with scent, dresses
in a red waistcloth and dark silken jacket, and awaits the
descent of the demon, who is incited to come by redoubled
din of music and chanted incantations. When he comes she
shakes and trembles, and then, assuming the airs and
manners of a great personage, all present worship and pay
her homage. Sometimes the spirit of one of their ancestors,
sometimes a foreign demon, is supposed to have taken pos¬
session of her body. She answers questions, and gives com¬
mands and directions in a haughty, imperative tone, and all her
words are humbly listened to,, and afterwards she partakes
of the offerings provided for the demon. An old woman
usually plays the part, and after the influence has left her, she
declares she knows nothing of what took place, or what she
may have said. All these practices are in full force amongst
the Chinese, and are described in the most ancient Chinese
works “by the Emperor Fuhi, probably nearly 3,000 b.o.,”
says the Rev. Mr. Nevius, in his work, “ China and the
Chinese.” “They burn incense, beat a drum to call the
attention of the desired spirit,” writes Padre de Mae, “ and
then by idolatrous methods, one of which is a spasmodic
ecstasy, they get responses from the dead. Had Mr. Layard
penetrated more fully into the meaning of the wild rites and
dances of the Yezidis, or devil-worshippers, of Kurdistan,
which he describes so vividly in his work, “ Nineveh and its
Remains ” (vol. i. 293), or been admitted further into the
secrets of the cultus, the same belief and manifestations
would probably have been found to be at its root. In New
Zealand the Tohunga, or priests, evoke, after certain wild
ceremonies, the spirits of the dead, who speak through them
in strange, unearthly tones. Nearly the same practices have
lately been described as prevailing among the Greenland
Eskimo. Other instances might be cited of these ideas and
usages in widely-separated nations ; and amongst ouraelves
a trace or survival of them may perhaps be discerned in the
unknown tongues of the Irvingites, which were said fre¬
quently to break forth after violent contortions; amongst
the Shakers and Jumpers, too, of America and England,
rapturous prayers and adjurations are reported to be some¬
times uttered after violent, prolonged dancing; * and in
Spiritualist circles manifestations are said to be much
assisted by those present joining in hymns and singing.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
At the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the Psychological Society,
held on Thursday, last week, at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
Mr. Walter Spencer, C.E., was elected an ordinary member of the
society.
CLAIRVOYANT REVELATIONS.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, said that the investigation
committee of the Psychological Society had put advertisements in the
newspapers asking for information which would be of use to it, and
had received a reply from a gentleman dated May 11th last. This cor¬
respondent said:—
“ Some twenty-five years since a young lady who was a friend of my
wife was found (a fortnight after her marriage) with her throat cut in
her own bedroom, and, as she was a most cheerful and amiable young
woman, we were inclined to think she had been murdered. However,
a coroner’s jury sat on the body, and, as no reason could be given, and.
* The newspapers contain a report of an extraordinary scene at Exeter re¬
cently (December, 1875), when “ Mother Girling,” the head of the New Forest
Shakers, gave a lecture at that place.
“ Mrs. Girling was listened to with some attention at first, but the audience
soon began hissing and cheering. Suddenly one of the eight girls who accom¬
panied the lecturess rose from her seat, and began to dance, with eyes closed,
and arms waving to -and fro. This demonstration (says the Western Morning
News'), caused loud laughter at first, followed by groans and hisses, which were
redoubled when Mrs. Girling explained that it was the operation of the Spirit.
The dancing girl next commenced singing snatches of hymns, and one of her
companions fainted for a moment, and then began to dance as well. Great
disorder followed. Appeals were made to the Shakers to stop the dancing, to
which they replied they had no power to do so. By this time the number of
dancers had increased, and a rush was made to the platform, which was speedily
occupied. The scene at this time defies description—three or four girls, with
dishevelled hair, and faces streaming with perspiration, dancing within a circle
of policemen, and an infuriated mob trying to get at them and their companions,
and hustle them from the platform. One of the men of the Shaker party, who
had up to this time remained comparatively cool and collected, suddenly com¬
menced to jump, and defied the efforts of three or four stalwart men to
keep him still.
243
244 THE SEIEITUALIST. May 26, 1876.
therj were no tokens of insanity, a verdict otfelo de se was brought in.
About twelve months after this happened, some remarkable discoveries
were made by a clairvoyant, and, as one of the gentlemen there who
had profited by these discoveries was a friend of mine, I applied to him
for an introduction to the clairvoyant, and certainly (assuming they
were to be relied on) some awful disclosures were made. When I
went not a single syllable was said by me about the errand on which
I had come, and no one but my wife knew why I went. The place
where the lady had died was fifty miles away, and twelve months had
elapsed since her death, yet, on putting one of her letters into the hand
of the clairvoyant (who could not read), and asking where the
lady who wrote it was at the time, she pressed it to her head and im¬
mediately said, ‘She is a shell’—that meant she was dead. She then
went on to describe the murder as distinctly and with as much detail
as if she had witnessed it—the dress the lady wore, the woman (for she
said it was a woman) who did it, the razor with which it was perpe¬
trated, and many other particulars. The murder (if a murder at all)
had been committed by a left-handed person, although she was not
left handed, and the razor was in her left hand when she was found,
although it is hard to suppose that if she had done it herself she would
have retained hold of it in her last agony. But this was not all. As I
said, a verdict of felo de se was returned by the jury, and consequently
she was buried at midnight without any religious rites, but there was
some informality in this verdict which induced the family to appeal
against it and it was set aside. Now all this was described by the clair¬
voyant—the strange funeral in the dark, the judge and barristers, and
their curious wigs, were accurately described. Ten years after, the
then mayor, who is a friend of mine, and also a great believer in the
extraordinary powers of the clairvoyant, was requested by me to ask
her to his house, but was desired by me not to say a word to her who
wished to see her. She was accordingly brought into his drawing¬
room, and I was concealed behind a curtain until she was mesmerised.
I then came out and put the same letter into her hand, and she told
me the same story, with some modifications, one of which was that the
woman who had committed the murder was dead. It was curious to
observe how the touch of the letter revived her memory of what she
had said ten years before, and she went through all the various matters
she had seemed to see so vividly, and that she had told me so long
before.”
Mr. C. C. Massey asked whether the writer of the letter stated that
the clairvoyant had described judges and barristers in their wigs.
The Secretary replied, u Yes.”
Mr. Massey added—“ Then that could not have been at an inquest.”
The Secretary explained that the letter stated that they appealed to
a higher court to set aside the verdict.
LORD clarendon’s ACCOUNT OF THE APPARITION OF SIR GEORGE VILLIERS.
Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., then read the following paper
Of the various narratives of apparitions which have been afforded
to us by different persons, and at different periods, there is none more
remarkable than that given by Lord Clarendon in his History of the
Rebellion* of the ghost of Sir George Yilliers, father of the Duke of
Buckingham, whose violent death was predicted, and which happened
shortly afterwards, he being stabbed to death at Portsmouth by an
assassin named Felton.
Before giving the story itself, I may perhaps be allowed to state very
briefly the correct principles which appear to me to be applicable to
test the reality of phenomena of this description.
When an apparition is said to have been heard as well as seen, this
is some, although not conclusive, proof of its reality; inasmuch as it is
less likely that two of the senses should be out of order, or should at,
once deceive us, than that only one of them should be in that condition.
Besides, what can be the object of a ghost appearing unless he has
something to say, and to the purpose of his visit 1 So also, when an
apparition is said to have been seen by two or more persons, instead of
by one only, and on separate occasions, there is of course a much
stronger ground for believing the story than if one individual only said
that he had seen it. Not merely because two witnesses are in every
case better than one, but for the still more satisfactory reason, that two
persons are not likely to be at once labouring under false impressions of
the senses, or a disordered imagination. In all these cases a great deal
must of course depend on the character, state of mind, and condition
in point of health of the parties. So, also, the time at which the ap¬
parition presented itself may have some influence in determining the
credit to be given to it. An apparition seen at mid-day would com¬
mand considerably more belief than one witnessed at midnight. If,
again, an animal—a dog, for instance—accompanying the person who
sees the apparition, gives token of the presence of some supernatural
being, either by its cries, or by exhibiting unusual symptoms of terror,
as is alleged to have happened in some avowedly well authenticated
cases of apparitions, this must undoubtedly be regarded as a strong
additional proof of the reality of its appearance, and that no mere
illusion of the senses occasioned a belief in its existence. If, however,
other individuals, and those persons of character and intelligence, are
consulted at the time about the supposed appearance of a ghost, and
are convinced of the sincerity of those who assert that they have seen
one, this maybe considered as a strong corroboration of their testimony.
Another decisive confirmation of the reality of a supernatural visi¬
tation of this kind is when some important fact, with which the person
who narrates the circumstance could not have become acquainted in
the ordinary course of things, is communicated by it: as in the case of
the intelligence of the death of some one in a distant foreign country
at the moment when the apparition presented itself—the detection of a
murder by announcing where the body lay concealed—the discovery of
* Yol. II., pp. 42-43. (Edit. 1712.)
hidden treasure—or the foretelling of an important event, which
| actually happens in the precise way predicted.
Lord Clarendon’s narration is as follows :—q There was an officer in
| the king’s wardrobe in Windsor Castle, of a good reputation for
j honesty and discretion, and then about the age of fifty years or more.
I This man had in his youth been bred in a school in the parish where
| Sir George Yilliers, the father of the duke, lived, and had been much
cherished and obliged, in that season of his age, by the said Sir George,
whom afterwards he never saw. About six months before the miser¬
able end of the Duke of Buckingham, about midnight, this man, being
in his bed at Windsor where his office was, and in a very good health,
there appeared to him on the side of his bed a man of very venerable
aspect, who drew the curtains of his bed, and, fixing his eyes upon him,
| asked him if he knew him. The poor man, half dead with fear and
apprehension, being asked the second time whether he remembered
| him—and having in that time called to his memory the presence of Sir
! George Yilliers, and the very clothes he used to wear, in which at that
time he seemed to be habited, he answered him that he thought him
| to be that person. He replied ‘ he was right, that he was the
same, and that he expected a service from him; which was that he
should go for him to his son, the Duke of Buckingham, and tell him
if he did not somewhat to ingratiate himself to the people—or, at least,
to abate the extreme malice they had against him—he would be suffered
I to live but a short time.’ After this discourse he disappeared; and the
f poor man, if he had been at all waking, slept very well till morning,
when he believed all this to be a dream, and considered it no otherwise.
“ The next night, or shortly after, the same person appeared to him
j again, in the same place and about the same time of the night, with an
j aspect a little more severe than before, and asked him whether he had
j done as he had required him ? and perceiving he had not, gave him very
'j severe reprehensions; told him ‘ he expected more compliance from him ;
i i and that if he did not perform his commands he should enjoy no peace
j i of mind, but should be always pursued by him ; ’ upon which he pro-
I mised him to obey him. Bat the next morning, waking out of a good
sleep, though he was exceedingly perplexed with the lively representa-
ji tion of all particulars to his memory, he was willing still to persuade
II himself ‘ that he had only dreamed,’ and considered that he was a person
| at such a distance from the Duke that he knew not how to find any
i admission to his presence, much less had any hope to be believed in
U what he should say. So, with great trouble and unquietness, he spent
(i some time in thinking what he should do, and in the end resolved to do
) I nothing in the matter.
jj “ The same person appeared, to him the third time with a terrible
I countenance, and bitterly reproaching him for not performing what he
i had promised to do. The poor man had by this time recovered the
| courage to tell him 1 that in truth he had deferred the execution of his
(l commands, upon considering how difficult a thing it would be for him
> I to get any access to the Duke, having acquaintance with no person about
| him; and if he could obtain admission to him, he should never be able
(j to persuade him that he was sent in such a manner; but he should at
|i best be thought to be mad, or to be set on and employed by his own or
11 the malice of other men, to abuse the Duke ; and so he should be sure
j to be undone.’ The person replied, as he had done before, ‘ that he
j should never find rest till he should perform what he required, and
i therefore he were better to dispatch it. That the access to his son was
| known t o be very easy; and that few men waited long for him, and
i for the giving him credit he would tell him two or three particulars
I which he charged him never to mention to any person living but to the
Duke himself, and he should no sooner hear them but he would believe
all the rest he should say ; and so, repeating his threats, he left him.
“In the morning the poor man, more confirmed by the last appear-
|j ance, made his journey to London, where the Court then was. He was
very well known to Sir Ralph Freeman, one of the masters of requests,
who had married a lady that was nearly allied to the Duke, and was
jj himself well received by him. To him this man went, and though he
| i did not acquaint him with all particulars, he said enough to him to let
j him see there was somewhat extraordinary in it, and the knowledge he
j had of the sobriety and discretion of the man made the more impres-
ji sion in him. He desired that * by his means he might be brought to
| the Duke to such a place, and in such a manner, as should be thought
j fit,’ affirming ‘ that he had much to say to him, and of such a nature as
| would require much privacy, and some time and patience in the hearing.’
Sir Ralph promised ‘he would speak first with the Duke of him, and
ji then he should understand his pleasure.’ And accordingly, in the first
] opportunity, he did inform him of the reputation and honesty of the
11 man, and then what he desired, and of all he knew of the matter.
11 The Duke, according to his usual openness and condescension, told him
j ‘that he was the next day early to hunt with the king; that his
i i horses should attend him at Lambeth-bridge, where he would land by
(: five of the clock in the morning; and if the man attended him
11 there at that hour, he would walk and speak with him as long as should
| j be necessary.’ Sir Ralph carried the man with him the next morning
j and presented him to the Duke at his lauding, who received him
11 courteously, and walked aside in conference near an hour, none but
i his own servants being at that hour in that place, and they and Sir
11 Ralph at such a distance that they could not hear a word, though the
j i Duke sometimes spoke, and with great commotion, which Sir Ralph
! i the more easily observed, and perceived, because he kept his eyes
(i always fixed upon the Duke, having procured the conference, upon
ji somewhatheknew there was of extraordinary. And the man told him
ji in his return over the water, ‘ that when he mentioned these particulars
i which were to gain him credit, the substance whereof he said he durst
ji not impart to him, the Duke’s colour changed, and he swore he
| could come to that knowledge only by the Devil, for that those par-
ij ticulars were known only to himself and to one person more, who, he
jj was sure, would never speak of it.’
May 26, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
“ The Duke pursued his purpose of hunting, but was observed to
ride all the morning with great pensiveness, and in deep thoughts,
without any delight in the exercise he was upon. And before the
morning was spent, he left the field, and alighted at his mother’s lodg¬
ings in Whitehall, witli whom he was shut up for the space of two or
three hours, the noise of their discourse frequently reaching the ears
of those who attended in the next rooms. And when the Duke left
her, his countenance appeared full of trouble, with a mixture of anger;
a countenance that was never before observed in him, in any conver¬
sation with her, towards whom he had a profound reverence. And his
mother was at the Duke’s leaving, found overwhelmed in tears, and in
the highest agony imaginable. Whatever there was of all this, it is a
notorious truth that when the news of the Duke’s murder (which
happened a few months afterwards) was brought to his mother, she
seemed not in the least degree surprised, but received it as if she had
foreseen it; nor did afterwards express such a degree of sorrow as was
expected from such a mother for the loss of such a son.”
It seems to me that in the case which I have cited, and which I
have stated in the exact words used by Lord Clarendon, there are
several circumstances which, according to the principles that I have
laid down, warrant our belief in the reality of the apparition. For
although it was only seen by one person, yet to him it appeared several
times, and he seems to have been a man of character, and sense, and
credit, and communicated what he saw and heard to the person desired.
Moreover, the information afforded by the apparition, both as regards
the private matter relating to the Duke, and the prediction of his
death, could only have been in some extraordinary way. The narrator
of the story, Lord Clarendon, was not at all inclined to be superstitious
or credulous, although living in an age when such stories commanded
much more belief than they would be likely to do at the present day.
The Chairman remarked that Mr. Harris had started a very fertile
theme, and he hoped that those present would have something to say
for or against ghosts.
A member asked whether it was known whence Lord Clarendon ob¬
tained the particulars.
Mr. Harris replied that he seemed to state them from his own
knowledge. In his History of the Rehellion there were also other ghost
stories, to which others, however, Lord Clarendon seemed to give no
credit.
Mr. Gordon wished to know what was the position in life of the man
who saw the spirit.
Mr. Harris stated that he was keeper of the robes at Windsor Castle.
The Chairman said that the only remarkable part of the story was,
that the man told the Duke something which was not known to any
other person.
Mr. Massey : ^Yes ; the spirit said,li Tell him this, and then he will
know that you come from me.”
Mr. Coffin said that Mr. Harris’s statement that it was a genuine
case of an apparition should be examined. The person was not only
seen, but heard, and that, too, on separate occasions; he further gave
credentials. Mr. Harris, in dwelling upon these facts, had said that
only one sense was likely to be out of order at one time, but he
(Mr. Coffin) thought that such an abnormal state would influence all
the senses of the individual, unconsciously to himself, so that the fact
of all the senses being appealed to did not prove the objectivity of the
apparition at all. He (Mr. Coffin) had dreamed the same thing, not
only three times, but half-a-dozen times, and certain stock dreams he
had dreamt all through his life. (Laughter.) The man mentioned in
the narrative had twice confused a dream with the apparition, conse¬
quently there was doubt whether the case before them came under the
ordinary category of apparitions; the man might also have known
some private particulars of the life of the Duke of Buckingham which
had come to him in a roundabout way. Thus the whole thing seemed
to fail in many points of importance.
Mr. Gordon remarked that little could be added to the words of Mr.
Coffin, which seemed to demolish the story altogether. No man in his
sober senses would confound a dream with an apparition ; a clear¬
headed man would know whether he was awake at the time.
The Chairman stated that there were further difficulties in the case.
Why should the man make the communication in a garden early in the
morning, instead of in the house of the Duke of Buckingham. Their
holding such a meeting made it look as if there had been something
between them before, and the whole story of the dream might have
been a contrivance to obtain an interview. Even if the whole account
were hona fide, there was no evidence that it was not a mere dream,
and, as Mr. Coffin had said, dreams had a tendency to repeat them¬
selves. People who awoke suddenly from dreams sometimes thought
that they saw people by their bedsides. When a person was put in the
mesmeric condition on several successive occasions, a dream-story would
sometimes be carried on from one mesmeric sleep to the other ; he had
known the phenomenon carried even to this extent—a person had been
awakened from the mesmeric sleep in the middle of a song he was
singing, and when he was thrown into the mesmeric state again a
month afterwards, he took up the song at exactly the point where he
had left off. According to the story which had been told them, the
Duke seemed to have received in an irrational way a perfect stranger
to him ; that they should meet where nobody could see them—not even
his own servants—was a suspicious fact. Looking at all the circum¬
stances of the case, he thought that the narrative furnished no proof
of the existence of ghosts. He should like to see a ghost very much.
The seeing of a ghost by one person only would be no evidence of its
existence at all, because the vision might have been subjective ; ghosts
were never seen by two persons at the same moment, or at least such
instances were very rare, and in those very rare cases it was necessary
to be sure that one person had not first suggested the idea of a ghost
being present to the other, thereby making the second person see it by
mesmeric influence.
THE CHURCH-HAUNTING SPIRIT AT YORK.
The Bev. W. Stainton-Moses, M. A., said that he should like to know
what was meant by ghosts. One gentleman sitting by his side (Mr.
Massey) had seen them by fifties and sixties. Were they to pass by
the more tangible ghosts said to appear at the present day ? Were
they to pass by the stories about the palpable manifestation of spirits
in materialised human form, like those recorded in the last number of
The Spiritualist ? He had been immensely struck with three separate
reports in that number, of the appearance of temporary human forms.
Professor Plumtree asked whether Mr. Stainton-Moses would read
one of the accounts mentioned.
Mr. Moses replied that he had not a copy of the paper with him.
One of the accounts stated how—in the light—several persons together
had seen a spirit gradually form and afterwards dissolve. Perhaps
Mr. Harrison had the account with him.
Mr. Harrison remarked that he had not, but another account
had been printed in the same journal about a spirit being seen
with tolerable regularity in broad daylight in a church in York.
The said account had been quoted from the Newcastle Chronicle,
and he had since received information that the editor considered the
writer of the account to be an honourable and trustworthy man.
Further, another correspondent stated that Mr. Baring-Gould con¬
firmed the story.
Mr. Serjeant Cox remarked that ton months ago a gentleman had
written to him from York about the regular appearance of the same
alleged ghost.
Mr. Stainton-Moses asked whether the Psychological Society would
do well to send a committee to York to inquire into the matter. (Hear,
hear.)
Mr. Gordon wished to know whether Professor Pepper had been
there.
THE APPEARANCE OF THE SPIRIT OF A DYING WOMAN.
Mr. Stainton-Moses continued that if they were not facts, they would,
if not contradicted, pass into the region of facts. It had been said
that spirits were not usually seen by many persons at the same time,
but the Spiritualist contained an authenticated account of a dying
mother, who wished to see her children, and all the children saw her
spirit. He knew of another case of the kind. It was narrated by the
Bev. F. G. Lee, Yicar of Lambeth, who tried to prove Spiritualism to
be of diabolical origin. Mr. Lee quoted the following document :—
“A lady and her husband (who held a position 'of some distinction in
India) were returning home (a.d. 1854), after an absence of four years, to join
a family of young children, when the former was seized in Egypt with an
illness of a most alarming character, and though carefully tended by an
English physician, and nursed with the greatest care, grew so weak that
little or no hope of her recovery existed. With that true kindness which is
sometimes withheld by those about a dying bed, she was properly and plainly
informed of her dangerous state, and bidden to prepare for the worst. Of a
devout, pious, and reverential mind, she is reported to have made a careful
preparation for the latter end. The only point which seemed to disturb her
mind after the delirium of fever had passed away, was a deep-seated desire
to see her absent children once again, which she frequently expressed to those
who attended upon her. Day after day for more than a week she gave utter¬
ance to her longings and prayers, remarking that she would die happily if
only this one wish could be gratified.
“ On the morning of the day of her departure hence she. fell into a long
and heavy sleep, from which her attendants found it difficult to arouse her.
During the whole period of it she lay perfectly tranquil. Soon after noon,
however, she suddenly awoke, saying, ‘ I have seen them all; I have seen
them all. God be praised, for Jesus Christ’s sake,’ and then slept again.
Towards evening in perfect peace, and with many devout exclamations, she
calmly yielded up her spirit to God who gave it. Her body was brought to
England and interred in the family burying place.
“ The most remarkable part of this incident remains to be told. The
children of the dying lady were being educated at Torquay under the super¬
vision of a friend of the family. At the very time when their mother thus
slept they were confined to the house where they lived by a severe storm of
thunder and lightning. Two apartments on one floor, perfectly distinct,
were then occupied by them as play and recreation rooms. All were then
gathered together. No one of the children was absent. They were amusing
themselves with games in company of a nursemaid who had never seen their
parents. All of a sudden their mother, as she usually appeared, entered the
larger room of the two, pausing, looked for some moments at each and smiled,
passed into the next room, and then vanished away. Three of the elder
children recognised her at once, but were greatly disturbed and impressed at
her appearance, silence, and manner. The younger and nursemaid, each and
all, saw a lady-in white come into the smaller room, and then slowly glide by
and fade away.
“ The date of this occurrence, Sept. 10, 1854, was carefully noted, and it
was afterwards found that the two events above recorded happened almost
contemporaneously. A record of the event was committed to paper, and
transcribed on a fly-leaf of the family Bible, from which the above account
was taken and given to the editor of this book in the autumn of 1871, by a
relation of the lady in question, who is well acquainted with the fact of her
spectral appearance at Torquay,, and has vouched for the truth of it in the
most distinct and formal manner.
“ The narrative of the spectral appearance of a lady at Torquay, forwarded
to Dr. F. G. Lee at his special request, is copied from and compared with that
in the family -Bible of H. A. T. Baillie-Hamilton, by the undersigned.
“ 0. Margaret Balfour.
“ Mary Baillie-Hamilton.
“ Witness, J. R. Grant.”
Princes-street, Edinburgh, Oct. 7,1871.
REINCARNATION ?
Mr. F. K. Munton said that Mr. Stainton-Moses’s remarks about the
objectivity of apparitions, had brought to his mind a statement made
to him by a celebrated scientific man, well known by name to every¬
body in that room, and who had assured him that one night in his
bedroom, the door of which was always bolted, he awoke under the
impression that some one was speaking to him. He opened his eyes,
Mat 26, 1876.^1
246 THE SPIRITUALIST.
and saw wliat he thought to be a human form near the foot of the bed.
Gradually the form became more distinct, and he saw before him a
woman who said, “ I am your sister.” As he had no sister he doubted
the statement, and asked what she meant. She replied that his spirit
had been in another body two hundred years before, and that she at
that time had been his sister. He (Mr. Munton) remarked to the nar¬
rator of the anecdote that he supposed he must have been in a dream.
The reply was that he knew he had not been dreaming, because he got
out of bed and wrote down the story he was then telling. He further
stated that the form diminished and disappeared, and not through the j,
door. The man who made this statement was one of the most eminent |.
scientific men living. Perhaps he dreamt it, then rose and wrote it 11
out on paper. The society should investigate all the alleged cases of
apparitions it could, because whether it exploded them or proved them
to be true, it would equally be doing good. .' 1 j
A member asked whether the scientific man just mentioned was a
believer in Spiritualism ? j <
Mr. Munton replied that he thought that on the whole he was con- i
vinced of its truth, but not because of the particular event just i [
narrated. 11
THE TRAVELLING ON THE SPIRIT DURING THE SLEEP OP THE BODY.
Mr. Stainton-Moses asked whether records of phenomena were re- i (
ceived by the society ? j <
The Chairman : Yes. i J
Mr. Stainton-Moses continued that he should like to submit a case. | <
A friend of his who lived in Lincolnshire died, and he was invited to I j
the funeral. He could not go, and was sitting quietly at home in I)
London at the time, without being conscious in any way of anything |
abnormal. He became unconscious, and afterwards found by his watch ! {
that he had been in that condition for two hours. Afterwards, bit by I)
bit, the details of the funeral of his friend came into his mind ; or, i <
rather, bit by bit he brought to recollection a scene he had witnessed, i)
He remembered seeing the officiating minister and the mourners, just i)
as if he had been present at the funeral, so he put all the details down j <
on paper; moreover, he the same day posted a full account of the i (
funeral to a friend of his who had been at it, who wrote back in com- i)
plete astonishment as to how he could have obtained the details. The ! (
minister was not the one whom he had previously expected would j)
officiate at the funeral, the clergyman having been changed at the last | /
moment. That was a fact for Dr. Carpenter. The funeral started from | (
Lincolnshire, but took place in Northamptonshire; he saw and de- i j
scribed the churchyard, a particular corner of the churchyard, and a I)
particular tree there. He did not think that he dreamt all this, but if I (
he did dream it it was every word of it true. He put this forward as j)
a curious psychological fact. | (
SENSATIONS EXPERIENCED IN MOMENTS OP EXTREME BODILY DANGER. j (
Mr. Stainton-Moses continued :—c‘ In the early days of this society I i)
narrated how a drowning person saw all the events of his life pass | \
before his eyes in a short time. I have now another case of the kind i j
which I wish to lay before the Society ; it is quoted from Whymper’s i (
Scrambles amongst the Alps, in the years 1860-1869, and describes his j)
sensations in falling from a great height. In ascending the Matter- j)
horn, Mr. Whymper, who was alone, slipped and fell in attempting to |)
pass a difficult corner at an angle of the cliffs of the Tete du Lion. He | j
thus describes the result:—‘ The knapsack brought my head down i )
first, and I pitched into some rocks about a dozen feet below: they \}
caught something, and tumbled me off the edge, head over heels, into i)
the gully ; the baton was dashed from my hands, and X whirled down- |)
wards in a series of bounds, each longer than the last—now over ice, i I
now into rocks, striking my head four or five times, each time with |;
increasing force. The last bound sent me spinning through the air in ;)
a leap of fifty or sixty feet, from one side of the gully to the other, and j \
I struck the rocks luckily with the whole of my left side. They caught i j
my clothes for a moment, and I fell back on to the snow with motion i)
arrested. My head fortunately came the right side up, and a few : j
frantic catches brought me to a halt in the neck of the gully, and on I )
the verge of the precipice.’ The injuries Mr. Whymper had received |)
were sufficiently serious. His head was badly cut, and his body I (
showed more than twenty cuts, from which the blood spurted ‘in i )-
blinding jets at each pulsation.’ Crawling to a place of safety he ; >
fainted away, and remained in an unconscious state till sunset. His I j
description of his sensations is worth noting. He thus describes : )
them:—* I was perfectly conscious of what was happening, and felt i)
each blow, but like a patient under chloroform, experienced no pain. !
Each blow was, naturally, more severe than that which had preceded i )
it, and I distinctly remember thinking—Well, if the next is harder ; \
still, that will be the end. Like persons who have been rescued from i
drowning, 1 remember that the recollection of a multitude of things | )
rushed through my head, many of them trivialities or absurdities, ; )
which had been long forgotten; and, more remarkable, this bounding : j
through space did not feel disagreeable. But I think that in no very great i )
distance more consciousness, as well as sensation, would have been lost, i)
and upon that I base my belief, improbable as it seems, that a fall from |)
a great height is as painless an end as can be experienced. The loss of j)
blood, although so great, did not seem to be permanently injurious. | c
The only serious effect has been the reduction of a naturally retentive i)
memory to a very commonplace one ; and, although my recollections ;)
of more distant occurrences remain unshaken, the events of that par- | (
ticular day would be clean gone but for the few notes that were written |)
down before the accident.’ ” I)
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that a relation of his served in the Abyssinian i (
war, and went elephant hunting. After he shot at one animal the \ {
elephant ran after him, caught him, and tried to toss him with its :)
tusks. The elephant missed its aim, broke two of his ribs, and then ! <
lifted him in the air on its tusks, at the same time twisting its trunk i (
over him to kill him. At that moment the commanding officer fired at
the elephant, and killed it. This adventure occurred to his (Mr.
Serjeant Cox’s) own son-in-law, who stated that while upon the
elephant’s tusks he was in constant fear of death, but had not the
slightest feeling of horror. The sensation was one of perfect calmness.
Mr. Gordon asked whether Mr. Stainton-Moses thought he had seen
the funeral in a dream.
Mr. Stainton-Moses replied that he had not said that it was a dream.
He had not said what it was, but had left it for the members of the
society to give their own explanations. If any of them said that it was
a dream, the onus probandi rested with those who made the state¬
ment.
THE GHOST AT YORK.
The Chairman remarked that the case of the ghost at York really
merited investigation. It appeared outside the church window, above
ground. It was a female form which first passed across the window in
one direction, and on her return in the other usually brought with her
a child. It was said that this ghost had been seen with more or less
frequency in York for more than 300 years.
Mr. Gordon : Is she performing now ? (Laughter.)
The Chairman continued that she was still in the habit of appearing.
The writer in the Newcastle Chronicle stated that she had a definite and
distinct figure, and that even her features could be distinguished. Those
who had seen the appearance were not able in any way to account for
it, while persons inside had been looking at the figure, people had been
watching the church outside and had seen nothing.
ProfessorHlumtree asked whether the name of the church had been
published.
Mr. Harrison : Yes. Holy Trinity Church, York.
The Chairman added that he thought it was a very proper thing
for the society to investigate.
Mr. F. K. Munton, hon. secretary, said that he would make official
inquiry into the matter. (Applause.)
Mr. George Harris then replied to such of the remarks as had borne
reference to his paper. He thought that the story could not be so very
easily explained away. In the first place a prediction had been made,
which prediction afterwards came true. Then again the identity of the
alleged spirit seemed to be proved. The reason why the Duke made
tke appointment early in the morning was because he was at that time
at leisure, but during the rest of the day he spent much of his time
hunting with the king. It had always been considered to be a well-
attested story, but he must leave the members of the society to form
their own opinions about it, and to provide their own explanations.
The Secretary announced that at the next meeting a paper would be
read by Mr. Serjeant Cox.
A SPIRIT MATERIALISING FOUR DAYS AFTER DEATH.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
On Thursday evening, May 11th, 1876, an event took
place which is perhaps the most remarkable on record con¬
nected with modern Spiritualism, and as I believe the spirit
when embodied was well known to many of the readers of
The Spiritualist^ the record may be interesting.
At the meeting held at the house of Mr. , in Man¬
chester, there were present seven of us, including Dr. Monck,
the medium. Taking our seats round an oval table, I sat at
one end, a good light from a gas lamp being behind me; Dr.
Monck sat at the other end of the table. After a time he
became entranced, and, rising from his seat, came up to me
on the left-hand side, close to where I was sitting. Samuel
was the controlling spirit. He took a white lawn handker¬
chief from Dr. Monck’s pocket, and placing it on his right
hand, the handkerchief appeared to be u absorbed,” or meta¬
morphosed, and in a few seconds there, at the extremity of
his arm, appeared a beautiful, unmistakable feminine face,
as large as a good-sized infant’s; it was a perfect human
head) with the features clearly delineated. So clearly are
the features and form impressed upon my memory, that
were I an artist I could even now produce them on canvas.
The head and face were of pure classic form, and very
beautiful to look upon. While I was looking intently on
the object before me I heard a whispering voice, at first very
faintly, issuing from the head; the words were, " Do you
hear me?” I replied, “No, not distinctly,” as Samuel,
through Dr. Monck, was speaking at the same time. I then
said, “Come closer, so that I may hear you.” The reply
was, “ I will try.” I now saw that the lips moved in giving
articulation to the words. Dr. Monck then pressed his lips
close to my right cheek, which I felt distinctly all the time
that the head was within a few inches of my left ear. Lis¬
tening intently I heard the words, “ My name is Rhondda,
and I wish you to write to my parents in Cardiff, and tell
them not to grieve for me, as I am very happy. I have seen
my beautiful and glorious home, and I shall often try to
come through this medium, and hope to be very useful.”
May 26, 18V6,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
247
(The rest I did not clearly catch.) Pour of the other sitters
were then called up, to whom words were spoken, but which
I did not hear distinctly. A strange fact then occurred. As
soon as the others came up to where Dr. Monck was stand¬
ing I observed the face alter, and the kerchief hung sus¬
pended from the hand, but the voice came as before from
under the kerchief. When this part was concluded, Samuel
said, “ You have had the most wonderful phenomenon in
this room this evening that has been enacted on your earth.”
Dr. Monck now retired behind the curtains in the corner of
the room, and the light being extinguished a luminous hand
appeared and touched some of us; the light reflected from
the hand enabled us to distinguish the outline of a head and
bust. I then felt what appeared like hair touch my face
three times, also the wafting of a fine gauzy garment which
passed over my head, and almost enveloped it in passing.
This ceased, and a voice (I presume using the organism of
Dr. Monck, but it might have been direct for aught I know
to the contrary) addressed us for about five minutes, but
being unprepared I took no notes, and the statements passed
from memory, so that I cannot repeat what was said.
In accordance with instructions I wrote to the parents in
Cardiff, giving particulars concerning the face as they ap¬
peared to me, to which a reply was sent that they had “ been
informed by Rhondda that the message was genuine, and
that she did materialise herself; the description of features
does not correspond with herself when in health, but as at
her departure is perfectly true.”
From what I have learnt, the spirit of Rhondda passed
out of the body on Sunday evening, May 7th, at 8 p.m., and
on the fourth day between 8 and 9 p.m. (three clear days
and nights intervening), she appeared to us in the manner
above described. To those who can give credence to the
facts narrated, a new view of the resurrection will be pre¬
sented, and cogitation thereon will be instructive and in¬
teresting.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, May 22, 1876.
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
jjTRONG- MANIFESTATIONS 'WHILE THE MEDIUM WAS CLOSELY SEWN IN A BAG.
The usual weekly seance at the rooms of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, on Friday evening last, was attended by Mrs.
Desmond FitzGerald, Mr. A. Galbraith, Miss Withall, Rev.
D. Saunders, Mr. T. Johnson, Miss A. Hinton, Mrs.
Gunyon, Miss Glover, Capt. Rolleston, Mr. W. J. Wood-
house, and myself for the Seance Committee of the Associa¬
tion.
It is of course unnecessary to mention manifestations of
the ordinary character, but I have the satisfaction of report¬
ing that we had some excellent results of experiments under
the most stringent test conditions. Mr. Eglinton’s arms
were placed behind him, and his coat sleeves were sewn
together, his coat being also sewn together in front. He was j j
then placed in a chintz bag, the opening of which was sewn | j
close round his neck. In this helpless condition he was j j
placed in a chair in the cabinet, and a tape, placed round
his neck, was fastened to the chair back. The curtains of
the cabinet were then dropped so as to conceal his head and
body, leaving his knees and legs outside. On his knees,
which were thus under the full view of the company, was
placed a little stringed instrument, known as the u Oxford
chimes,” and upon this a book was laid. During the sitting
this book was two or three times opened and shut without
visible means; the strings of the instrument were played
upon; and both the instrument and the book were lifted two
or three inches from the medium’s knees, and replaced in
the same position. When Mr. Eglinton was sewn up in the
bag he was wearing a peculiarly shaped ring, which was
observed by several of the company, and especially by Capt.
Rolleston, who did the sewing. In the course of the sitting
this ring was taken off his hand and placed outside the cur¬
tains upon the “ chimes ” without visible agency, and a
diamond ring, which Mrs. Desmond FitzGerald laid upon
the instrument in view of the company was removed by an
unseen power, and when Mr. Eglinton was immediately
afterwards unpacked, was found on one of his fingers. Before
the medium was released, the stitches by which the bag and
the coat had been sewn were inspected by the company, who
were satisfied that they had not been disturbed, and a minute
inspection of the bag showed that there were no holes in it.
All present expressed their conviction that the test condi¬
tions had been in every respect perfect and complete.
E. Dawson Rogers,
Chairman of the Seance Committee.
SEVERE TREATMENT OF MEDIAL SCANDAL-MONGERS
BY SPIRITS.
{From Miss Blackwell's Translation of Allan Kardec's “ Book of Mediums'")
The moral imperfections of the obsessed are often an
obstacle to their deliverance, as seen in the following re¬
markable example, which we here bring forward as being of
general application :—
Several sisters had been subject, for many years, to depre¬
dations of a very unpleasant nature. Their clothes were
constantly scattered about in every corner of the house, and
sometimes even upon the roof; they were cut and torn, and
holes were made in them, no matter how carefully they had #
been locked up. These ladies, living in a little provincial
town, had never heard of Spiritism, and their first idea was,
naturally enough, that they were the victims of some
malicious practical joke; but the persistency of the annoyance,
notwithstanding the precautions they adopted in the hope of
putting a stop to it, soon showed them that this could not be
the case. It was not until the annoyance had gone on for
some years, that, having heard of Spiritism and spirits, they
addressed us on the subject, in the hope of learning the
cause of the damage thus inflicted on them, and the means
of preventing its recurrence, if possible. There could be, to
our mind, no doubt about the cause of the annoyance, but to
suggest a remedy was a more difficult matter. The spirit
who manifested his presence by such acts, was evidently
animated by a sentiment of hostility; and, in fact, such was
found to be the case when we evoked him. He showed him¬
self, moreover, to be exceedingly perverse, and inaccessible
alike to persuasion and counsel. Prayer, however, appeared
to exercise a salutary influence over him; but after a short
respite, the depredations complained of began again. We
subjoin the communication of a superior spirit consulted
by us in regard to these persecutions :—
“ The ladies thus tormented must entreat their protecting
spirit not to abandon them; but they must also examine
their consciences, and ask themselves whether they have
always practised neighbourly charity; I do not mean the
charity which gives alms, but the charity of the tongue. Un¬
fortunately for them, they have not yet learned to restrain
that member, and therefore do not deserve the deliverance
which they desire from the spirit who torments them; for
they are much too fond of slandering their neighbours.
The spirit who obsesses them does so out of revenge; for,
while living, he was their drudge, and suffered much through
their hardness and their exactions. They have only to con¬
sult their memory to see who it is that they have to
do with.
£c Nevertheless if they set themselves resolutely to amend
|! what is amiss in their daily life, their guardian angels will
j come back to them, and their presence will suffice to drive
j away the revengeful spirit, whose power is principally in
j connection with one of them ; her guardian angel having
i been forced to leave her by her indulgence in reprehensible
j acts and thoughts. Let these ladies pray fervently for all
i who suffer; let them practise the virtues required by God
i from every one according to his condition, and they will be
! j delivered from the obsession that has so long tormented
| i them.”
On our remarking that these strictures appeared to us to
\{\ be rather severe, and that it might perhaps be well to soften
|<| them before transmitting them to the ladies, the spirit
j added:—
“ It was my duty to say what I have said, and in the way
||j in which I have said it, because the persons in question do
| I not perceive that they make an evil use of their tongues,
! j although they do so habitually, and to a-deplorable degree.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 26, 1876.
248
It is therefore necessary to give them a warning that may j |
strike home to them.”* !
From the foregoing we learn a very important lesson, viz., ||
that onr moral imperfections bring us under the power of j)
obsessing spirits, and that the surest method of getting rid j
of these is to attract good spirits to us by the practice of |
virtue. Good spirits are more powerful than bad ones, and i)
their will suffices to keep off the latter, but they only assist ||
those who second the action of their will by the efforts they
themselves make for their own amendment; when no such !)
efforts are made good spirits retire, and their withdrawal |
leaves the field free to the evil ones, who thus become, in |
certain cases, instruments of punishment, the higher spirits !
allowing the lower ones to act for the accomplishment of j
this end. . Is
A CURIOUS ELECTRICAL EXPERIMENT AT A SEANCE, j
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON. i)
On Wednesday evening last week a seance took place at j
the house of Mr. Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, Member of the j
Society of Telegraph Engineers, at 6, Loughborough-road |
North, Brixton, London. Fifteen or sixteen members of |
the Brixton Psychological Society were present, and Mr. j
Eglinton was the medium. i
Mr. Fitz-Gerald produced a box about two feet square, j
with lock and key, which had been purchased that afternoon, j
and with which it was intended to test the powers of Mr. j
Eglinton’s spirits in a peculiar manner. A single cell |
battery, a telegraphic relay, and an electrical bell were |
placed inside the box. The connections were made with j
wires, so that when the armature of the relay was depressed |
the electrical bell rang. The relay was so adjusted that j
when it was most violently shaken the armature of the |
magnet would not move, thus no accidental jolting could I
cause the telegraphic bell to ring. Moreover, it was j(
impossible to shake the relay when inside the locked box j
without detection, because the said shaking would have !
upset the battery and all the liquid contained therein. All j
the apparatus and wires being placed inside the box the lid j
was closed and locked. No amount of shaking the bell
itself would ring it, it being an electrical one. Two strips j
of paper were then gummed over the crack between the lid !
of the box and the box itself, so that if the lid were opened hj
the pieces of paper would have been torn. The pieces of j
paper were specially marked with pencil by the observers so j)
that they could be subsequently identified.
What was required to be done was that the spirits should
depress the armature inside the box so as to cause the |)
electrical bell to ring, thereby displaying if possible their |)
power of producing mechanical effects inside a closed and |
locked box. The medium never saw the box until shortly j |
before the seance; he was present while the pieces of jj
apparatus were being placed in it, and what was required to i j
be done in the matter of the depression of the armature was h
explained to him, it being a well-known fact that whatever jj
is known to the medium comes, to the knowledge of his j
attendant spirits. The spirits said that they did not think that j
they should be able to do it, although in the course of the j
evening they would try. If they failed they would arrange i
a special seance, during which they would endeavour to j
achieve the desired result. They wished the box to be l(
placed in a dark place with the medium.
In the course of the evening Mr. Eglinton’s wrists were j)
placed across each other behind his back, and the cuffs of K
his coat were sewn together by Mrs. Fitz-Gerald with strong j)
thread; afterwards one of the cuffs was also sewn to his I
jacket at the small of his back. His coat was buttoned in |(
front, and further sewn at one place in front.
Curtains suspended between the front and back drawing- ||
rooms formed a cabinet; the spectators sat on the one side K
of the curtains, and the medium, in the dark, on the other. !
He sat at the opening of the curtains facing the audience, Jy
* When this message was given neither Allan Kardec nor the medium by j (
whom it was written had any knowledge whatever of the ladies to whom it !(
referred, and who lived in a remote country town, but subsequent inquiries \)
showed that its allegations were true, and that its severity was fully deserved, l)
Happily for the parties to whom it was addressed, the lesson it conveyed
proved effectual; they renounced the uncharitable habits which had brought if
them under the power of the obsessor, and were consequently freed from \\
his influence.—Translator. 1}
with his knees and boots in full view. There was light
enough to see them distinctly, to see the colour and pattern
of his trousers, and to read large print, not small print.
The upper part of Mr. Eglinton’s body was placed in dark¬
ness by the curtains being drawn together by spirit hands
just above his knees. A book was placed on his knees. Its
lid opened, and page after page was raised without anything
visible touching them. A little later two hands were seen.
The spirits asked for pencil and paper, which were placed
on the book. The hands then began to write on the paper
in the presence of the observers; four or five words were
written of no particular import.
Afterwards, Mr. Eglinton was drawn inside the cabinet,
so that he was completely lost to view. He could be
heard making a shuddering noise, and appeared to be shak¬
ing violently. The spirits said that they had received an
accession of power because of the arrival of one of Mr. Col-
man’s spirits named Johnny Grey, and they asked the mem¬
bers of the circle to sing. This was done, and perhaps about
ten minutes after Mr. Eglinton disappeared from view the
electrical bell rang; it stopped, and afterwards rang again
for about half a minute amid the applause of the sitters out¬
side.
Shortly afterwards the spirits announced the seance to be
over, and Mr. Eglinton came out of the cabinet. The
observers went in and brought out the box, which was found
locked as at first. The pieces of paper Were dry and
unbroken, and were the same that had been gummed on
originally. They were critically examined, and beyond
some discussion as to whether the lower end of one
of them had not been shifted about an eighth of an
inch to the left of its original position, or whether that
shifting had been done in the act of gumming, nothing of
a doubtful nature could be found. It was suggested that
the test was not so perfect as it might have been, because the
lock was one of common make, and the idea was broached
that it would be well to repeat the experiment with another
box having a complicated lock, since, if results of this kind
can be obtained with certainty under unquestionable condi¬
tions, they will be of great use as a means of producing con¬
viction in the minds of inquirers.
AN EXPLANATION OF THE “GHOST” MYSTERY AT YORK.
The ghost at Holy Trinity Church, York, is an old-
established one, and a description of it, agreeing with that
published in the Newcastle Chronicle, has been published in
Mr. Baring-Gould’s Yorkshire Oddities.
The rector of Holy Trinity, York, writes the following appa¬
rently sensible explanation of the whole mystery to the York
Herald:—“ I think the time has come when it is, perhaps,
necessary for me to give a word of explanation in regard to this
imaginary apparition. The fact is simply this:—Any one
seated in the gallery of the church, which is at the west end,
can see, through the east window, any person or persons
walking in the vicarage garden. The wall at the east end
of the church, below the east window, is too high to allow
any one in the body of the church to see either the garden
or anyone in it. This fact explains at once the reason how it is
absolutely necessary for anyone to be in the gallery in order to
see the 1 ghost.’ This is the real truth of the matter. What
is seen is not a 4ghost;’ it is not a 4reflection,’ butit is a
living being, or beings, walking in a garden. Of course, the
east window being of stained glass, and of a rather peculiar
pattern, a distinct form is not always visible. And I may
say that this simple explanation has been attested and veri¬
fied over and over again both by myself and others. One
argument of proof is all, I think, that I need give. The
Vicarage House was at one time empty for about twelve
months, during which time the ‘ghost’ was neither seen
nor heard of, and then it was let to a person with a large
family; and on the very first Sunday after the family took
possession of the premises, I was told by a simple-minded
youth that the ghost had returned, and five or six young
ghosts with it. After what I have here stated, I need hardly
say that all the sensational matter in regard to vivid lights,
mother, nurse, and child, and extraordinary displays on
Trinity Sunday, is as pure an invention as ever was fabricated
by a morbid imagination.”
May 26, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
Should there still be any doubt as to the nature of the i
ghost, the whole matter can easily be reduced to experiment j
by causing persons to walk outside the church in places
pointed out to them by the rector; observations made at
same time inside will reveal whether any ghost effect is
produced as stated.
THE MATERIALISATION OF SPIRITS IN MANCHESTER.
BY C. RFJMERS.
The meeting I am now reporting eclipsed in many respects that of
the 17th of April held in my rooms. We assembled at Mr. G-askell’s,
69, Oldham-road, on the evening of the 16th inst. My rooms I fancied
to be far more favourable for spiritual gatherings, as I am a musician,
and the surroundings point to devotion to an art, spiritual in its essence
and mission, although its material media of expression consist of sheep’s-
gut, horse-hair, resin, pieces of wood, and brass. Music, in its lowest
manifestations, may well be compared with the rude beginnings of these
modern experiments to draw our attention to something beyond our
level. In its highest flights, however, music joins hands with sister
messengers of celestial birth. The study of these beautiful and in¬
spiring strains is mrj profession. Mr. Gaskell deals in leather. Such
a contrast! But stop a bit.. In his shop are strong materials with
which to fasten mediums—thick skins, at which sceptics may smile
with envy, hanks of whipcord, eminently useful for inquirers who
require special tests. When Mr. Gaskell has done his work in his shop
below, and closes its door, he ascends to his own room, where books
(some bound in leather) take him to higher regions, and he soon finds
himself in company with fellow-labourers; on this occasion, however,
with several in the flesh, and so we were all on the same level—music
and leather shop. We had, also, one and the same business before us.
Our mediums were again Mrs.   and Dr. Monck. We placed
them this time under the most severe test-conditions that human in¬
genuity could devise for probing honesty, namely, none whatever.
They were bound by unbounded confidence and affection, the slightest
attempt at moving out of which would have plunged all into an abyss
of self-contempt. We had ascertained the humbug of rope, iron, bag,
or other scientific hobby-tests long ago, and acknowledge the value of
their occasional appliance only as preparatory to more sensible precau¬
tions ; besidesj we have in the mean time no desire to be dragged into
the ridicule which will come from the more enlightened generations of
the future. We excluded external lights, and lit up within to receive
our guests from the other side of life. They came soon, because they
were already there. Evil and tricky spirits have no chance under such
conditions, but poor and low ones may come to draw with us from the
same higher source. After sundry tokens of the presence of power, we
felt in turns touches’ like those of floating drapery. I was ordered to
go to the piano. I played as well I could, but it was of no scientific
value whatever, for “ it was all in the dark.’’ The mysterious drapery
flapped over my head, and for a time rested there. I felt the soft
muslin (?) hanging over my face, and was for a moment tempted to
snatch it with my teeth, but I blushed and could not do it. Suddenly a
sitter at the opposite end, far away from the mediums, felt the same
touch. There was something floating and flying about in the room. It did
not feel like leather, it was more like gauze. I returned to my seat, and
the small musical box, with phosphoric light upon it, travelled through
space; and after several other trifling incidents had occurred, notes on
the piano were struck. The instrument could not be reached by any
of us, and, what is more important, would not. There was no sense in
the playing itself, it was a mere thumping at hazard. “ Very silly in
its effect ? ” True; but tremendous when one is called upon to explain
the came.
Next we had to turn up the lamp and arrange a cabinet, consisting of
damask curtains across the corner of the room, the table in front, and
we seated around it, close enough for good observation. Dr. Monck
went in and sat down at once. Soon the form known as Bertie appeared
plainly at the top of the open cabinet, with the glittering crown and
cross, exactly as we had seen it through the mediumship of Mrs. ,
who was sitting near me. The head of Lily peeped out. Both heads
were out at the same time very distinctly, dismissing all ideas of doubles
or trebles here, the bother or hobby of other troubled observers, who
secure their mediums so tightly that only their nearest relations can put
in appearance. Now followed the most marvellous display of power.
The curtains opened in the front, and a white mass filled the whole
gap, the medium standing close by. After closing awhile the curtains
opened again, and the medium stood between both the faces and the
nearly full figures in shining white, all three plainly visible, but close
to the body of the medium, who, while gesticulating, stretched his hands
towards us. At times it looked as if he carried both forms on his arms,
and, if conditions were not utterly against the possibility, a sceptic
suddenly introduced would have come to the conclusion that Mrs. 
had handed the large basket, with all paraphernalia, to Dr. Monck to
go through the performance, for the forms presented the same features
as on former occasions.
I thought that this would be the culmination of the already prolonged
meeting, but the climax had to come after we had put the light out.
John King’s diredt voice greeted us in a manner which made me almost
believe myself transported to Mr. Williams’ rooms in London, so per¬
fect was the repetition. “ Mike ” also spoke in his own voice, which is
somewhat modified when Dr. Monck is the only medium.
A splendid circular light then advanced, and it reminded me of John
King’s; it came close to me, and the face of Bertie presented itself
under the mysterious illumination, the ethereal beauty of which, under
the changes of light and shade, excited me with a delight I cannot
describe. Then came another similar light, and both—Bertie and Lily
—were thus seen by each and all, keeping us spell-bound in silence,
as if attempt at expression might disturb the unearthly visitation.
I hardly remember any moment, in all my experiences, of receiving so
pure an impression of sublime beauty as seen in the expression of the
angelic faces, triumphant in having succeeded in forcing their way
through the barriers created by sceptical and mistrusting minds at so
many previous meetings. The final blessings and loving words seemed
almost as a soothing relief, permitting us to return to the normal state
of things. We accordingly went for an after-chat to the snug little
room below, and our return to reality found welcome confirmation in
the recollection that we were close to the—leather-shop. ’ But were
these manifestations not realities ? Most decidedly; for we received by
sight, and touch, and ear (I must also not forget the lovely perfume)
over and over again the proofs of their existence, which were equally
convincing to all of us, except the medium, who had to believe the best
part on trust. To certain self-sufficient sceptics and other illusionists,
who conjure up hosts of ghosts of possibilities, to account for these
strange occurrences, we must leave the task of bridging over the gap
between these facts and those of our acquired knowledge. They are
ever ready to guess the modus operandi hidden from other mortals’ eyes;
if they skilfully escape the demand to “do it themselves,” they only
increase our astonishment, or shift it to another ground, themselves
generally not getting the best of it.
Most naturally, hints from curious inquirers who desire to be pre¬
sent are getting pressing. But our conditions are rather exacting. We
test the new witnesses, after the mediums have gone sufficiently through
the same process, and it generally proves that their own sincerity and
honesty are not sufficiently up to the mark to permit them to sit in
judgment on that of the mediums’ and their spirit guides. The other
day a gentleman, a highly agitated sceptic, offered to come with a party
of friends to observe from a certain distance, so as not to interfere with
our own influence. A kind of “ ring” this around our field of opera¬
tions ! A new sport which, if it should become successful and fashion¬
able, might result in much profit; indeed, liberal offers towards that
end enlivened the temptation. We place the decision about this plan
in the hands of our “ good spirits,” and shall faithfully report the first
“ grand performance ”—if they will let us have it. In conclusion, it is
evident ;that the demand to witness these strange facts is on
the increase, and the republishing of rules for forming spirit circles
at home would seem to be advisable. If I may suggest a preliminary
step, it would be that each new candidate should sit awhile by himself,
and ask his own better self what he is going about; also, whether he is
prepared for a little change in his former views of life, if certain proofs
should be presented. It is a question of comfort, and we all know that
most animals like their own “ stable ” best, after all.
That the facts narrated in correctly-stated details as above have been
witnessed by all of us, except Dr. Monck (who, being mostly in trance,
could only testify to a certain part), we confirm by our signatures.
Christian Reimers. Thomas Gaskell.
William Oxley, Abraham Royse.
Henry Marsh.
m The Religion of the Kafirs.—The religion of the Kafirs, like that
j\j of all other varieties of “ the noble savage,” is nothing more than a vile
!''! superstition, accompanied by customs of a most debasing character. By
this religion woman is degraded to the lowest level, and classed among
beasts of burden and the goods and chattels of her masters. Polygamy,
of course, is universally allowed, and under the system of purchase
which prevails, the number of wives bears proportion to the wealth of
the husband. Concubinage is permitted, and no idea of purity or virtue
ij; is permitted to exist. Witchcraft is the great leading feature of the
|(! Kafir religion, and “witch doctors” are its priests. In those places
where British influence does not exist a system is regularly carried out
! I by means of which men with property are sacrificed to the rapacity of
| ! the chiefs. A witch doctor “ smells out” some person who has caused,
Hi or is causing, sickness or some evil. Cruel tortures, followed by death,
I) | are immediately applied to the unfortunate victim, and his wives and
i i cattle taken from him. This is an everyday occurrence among the
i i Kafirs, and urgent representations are very frequently made to British
i n colonial authorities upon the subject. The Kafirs believe in a Supreme
| | Being, but most of their rites are connected with the worship of their
jj j deceased ancestors, whose ghosts they endeavour to propitiate. A
||i Spiritualist of the nineteenth century holds a belief something similar,
: j and no doubt could fraternise with these savages on the same “ religious
ij: platform.” Christianity has made no real impression upon them,
! i i although the great intelligence and aptitude for learning of the people
! j has been proved at one or two well-conducted industrial institutions,
j j To use the words of an officer of the Government, who spent many years
ij; among them, “The Gospel has been preached to them for the last fifty
j i years, and some attempts have been made towards civilising them ; but
j i the Kafirs, nationally considered, remain just as they ever were; no
j | visible difference can be discerned. They are as perfectly heathen now
i ji as they were in the days of Yander Kemp (one of the first missionaries,
m 1798), and so they ever will continue so long as their political govern-
: I ment continues to exist in its present pagan form.’’ This extract points
iji to the fact which Sir George Grey thoroughly recognised, and of which
I the governments of the colonies and the states of South Africa must be
well aware, that unless the power of the witch doctors be destroyed,
neither can civilisation progress, security be secured, nor Christianity
prosper. The one great means of stirring up strife, fomenting war, and
binding the people to their cruel and infamous religion, is the super¬
stitious belief in the powers and influence of their priests, commonly
known as witch-doctors. Physically, the Kafir races are particularly
fine, stalwart, well-formed, manly, and brave. They are also intelli¬
gent, and there are now in and on the borders of the colony a number of
Christians among them.—The Month.
THE SPIH IT tJALIST
May'26, 1876,
250
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF |i
SPIRITUALISTS. . - ll
Last Tuesday, the animal general meeting of the British National j !
Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell-street, Lon- j j
don, under the presidency of Mr. Henry D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister- i /
at-Law. The members present were Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, j
M.S. Tel. E.; Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald; Miss Houghton; Mr. George R. |
Tapp; Mr. Martin R. Smith; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sc.; Cap- i
tainUohn James; Mr. Stanhope T. Speer and Mrs. Speer; Miss "Withall; ||
Miss H. Withall; Mr. Alexander Calder; Mrs. Maltby; Mr. Edward jj
T. Bennett; Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., and j{
Mrs. Wilson ; Mr. W. H. Harrison; Mr. Richard Pearce; Mr. J. J. j (
Morse; Mr. J. H. Andre; Mr. Thomas Blyton ; Mrs. Wiseman ; Mrs. Ij
Makdougall Gregory; Mr. J. Frederick Collingwood; Mr. Morell !
Theobald; Dr. George Sexton; Mrs. Lowe ; Mr. Keningale Cook, I j
LL.D., and Mrs. Cook; Mr. H. Cook; Mr. W. D. Meers and Mrs. i
Meers ; Mr. T. Everitt; Mr. G. H. Andrews; Mr. W. E. Bassett; jj
Mr. Joseph Ivimey;. Mr. Charles Edward Williams; Miss Lottie i
Fowler; Mr. Algernon Joy, M.I.C.E., Honorary Secretary; and Miss jjj
Kislingbury, Secretary to the Association. j jj
THE ANNUAL REPORT. iji
The following annual report, which had been unanimously adopted at j j
the last meeting of the Council, was then read by the Secretary:— j jj
To the Members of the British National Association of Spiritualists, jjj
Ladies and Gentlemen, jjj
In presenting to you our report for the past year, it maybe well, j j
before entering into the details of the work we have accomplished, to jjj
compare the present position of the Association with that which it j i
occupied the last time we had the pleasure of meeting in general jjj
assembly. j|i
The Association had then been but a short time in possession of the iji
premises which it still occupies, and the benefit of which was then a jjj
doubtful, or, rather, an unproved experiment. Since then the wisdom in
of taking a commodious house instead of mere offices for business pur- j J j
poses has become thoroughly apparent. This house is looked upon by jjj
all who are in the habit of visiting it as a home, where those interested j j
in our great subject are able to resort for social intercourse, as well as jjj
for purposes of business and study. Nothing could be better evidence iji
of this than the number of members who have been added to our list jjj
since we have been located here, and the fact that a large proportion of jjj
these have, by their own admission, joined the Association in consequence i j i
of a visit to our rooms. Only the other day a member from Newcastle, jjj
who spent a few hours here, expressed himself so well pleased with all jjj
he saw that, though not a frequent visitor in London, he at once doubled j jj
his subscription. At the conference last November a gentleman from jjj
Liverpool, who had been for some time on our books as a member, but jjj
had never paid any subscription nor taken any interest in the Associa- jjj
tion, on visiting this establishment expressed his great satisfaction with jjj
all the arrangements, and desired to be re-elected as a guinea member, jjj
Several members have increased their subscriptions for the year 1876, jjj
partly in order to share in the advantages of the lending library, and jjj
partly from a desire to aid in keeping up an establishment which, if some- j j j
what costly, they feel to be worthy of support. Altogether, since the jjj
month of April last year, when the Council held its first sitting here, j j j
165 new members have been elected, giving an average of between eleven j j
and twelve per month, as against six per month during the previous year; jjj
of these eighty-two are resident in London; fifty-three in the provinces; jjj
twenty-six are honorary members; three have retired, and one has been jjj
lost to us by death. Altogether twenty-two members have resigned jjj
membership during the year. The entire number of our members is at jjj
present 403; of these forty-eight are honorary members, which leaves jjj
355 paying members. By the report which your Finance Committee jjj
presented at the end of the year 1875 it will be seen that during that jjj
year the subscriptions and donations from members amounted to jjj
£273 10s. 9d., a sum evidently inadequate to support the expenses of jjj
the Association, but which was supplemented by contributions to the jjj
guarantee fund to the amount of .£198 17s. 6d., and by the proceeds of jjj
the bazaar, £102 7s. 3d. It has been found that this year’s expenses jjj
will also necessitate a call upon the guarantee fund; but should our j j
members increase as rapidly this year as they have done during the last, j jj
there is reason to hope that the ordinary funds will be sufficient, or jjj
nearly so, to meet all current expenses. The account of income and jjj
expenditure appears in full at the end of this report.
We will now give some account of the work accomplished by your jjj
Council during the past year.
At the annual meeting in May last you were informed that the Board j (j
of Trade had refused to register the Association, on the ground that it jjj
did not come within the meaning of the Companies Act; that is to say, jjj
that it was not formed for the promotion of “science, art, religion, jjj
charity, or any other useful object.” As the articles which had been jjj
prepared with a view to registration differed, of necessity, in some jjj
points from our original rules, a new and completely revised edition of jjj
these was issued shortly afterwards; they have been found to work i j
admirably, and have served as a basis for the regulations of other jjj
societies. In the month of June the attention of the Council was called i (i
by one of its members to the persecution in Paris of M. Leymarie, editor j j
of the Revue Spirits, and Mr. Firman, a young American medium, in iji
consequence of their alleged complicity with the fraudulent photogra- iji
pher,Edouard Buguet. Steps were taken to collect evidence in favour iji
of the reality, in certain cases, of spirit-photography, and of materiali- iji
sation; and the number of letters and legal attestations forwarded on iji
this occasion to Paris by our members may be seen by reference to the iji
Buguet-Leymarie trial in the Proces des Spirites. A petition for presen- j jj
tation to the French president for the remission of the unjust sentence jjj
upon Leymarie was drawn up by our corresponding member in Paris,
Mr. O’Sullivan, and printed and circulated with sheets for signatures, at
the expense of the Association. About eleven hundred signatures were
collected and forwarded to Paris, and, although the petition has not been
j yet presented, nor the desired result attained, the efforts made in his behalf
j have been fully appreciated by M. Leymarie, and have cemented the
j bond of union between the Spiritualists of England and the Spiritists of
.France.
At the end of September M. Aksakof, the noble promoter and repre¬
sentative of Spiritualism in Germany and Russia, paid a visit to England
in search of mediums for the Russian investigation of Spiritual phe¬
nomena, which had been set on foot by the University of St. Petersburg.
A special reception to M. Aksakof and his friend M. Butlerof, Professor
of Chemistry at the St. Petersburg University, was given at these rooms
on the 6th October, at which Mr. Martin R. Smith presided. In an
interesting speech “M. Aksakof detailed the object of his visit, an object
which, you will have seen with regret, he has failed to attain, through no
fault of his own. MM. Aksakof and Butlerof spent a portion of almost
every day of their stay in the reading-room of the Association, and
many pleasant hours were enjoyed by those who held converse with
them.
ANNUAL CONFERENCE. .
In the month of November the Association held its annual conference,
also at these rooms. The opening meeting was made the occasion of
giving a welcome to Mr. J. J. Morse, the well-known trance lecturer,
who had just then returned from a lengthened and successful tour in the
United States. This meeting was held at the Cavendish Rooms, and
was presided over by our veteran friend and co-worker, Mr. Benjamin
Coleman. Mr. Morse’s account of his travels and the state of American
Spiritualism was listened to with great interest by a crowded audience.
The meeting was a financial success, a surplus of £5 5s. being handed
to Mr. Morse at the close of the entertainment.
The conference meetings were four in number, and extended over two
days. The subjects treated of were—Healing Mediumship, by Mr.
Shorter; Nature and Varieties of Mediumship, by Mr. "W. H. Harrison;
The Twofold Nature of Man, by Mr. T. Everitt; The Influence of
Spiritualism on the Working Classes, by Mr. J. T. Rhodes; Combined
Action amongst Spirtualists, by Mr. T. Blyton; Spiritualism as a
Religious Influence, by Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. J. J. Morse, and Mrs.
Parkes; The British National Association of Spiritualists, by Mr.
Martin R. Smith; Popular Errors in Spiritualism, by Mr. H. T.
Humphreys; and Spiritualism and its Critics, by Mr. J. T. Markley.
The chair was occupied by Dr. Sexton, Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Martin
Smith, and Mr. Everitt respectively. The meetings were well attended,
many members coming up from the country for the purpose, and more
favourable reports appeared in the daily papers than have perhaps ever
before been accorded to the meetings of Spiritualists. The Conference
was followed by a course of four trance lectures by Mr. J. J. Morse on
Sunday evenings at the Cleveland Hall, under the auspices of the
Association. Special subscriptions being given towards the expenses,
the trifling loss of 3s._7d. only was incurred; but the bad weather at
that season (November), and other causes, combined to thin the
audiences, and the attendance was not as great as could have been
desired.
DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
The next useful work undertaken by the Council was the organisation
of fortnightly discussion meetings, which began on November 22nd,
and continued over a period of five months. Attention was given to the
subject of mesmerism in various forms, to spirit photography, and
other classes of spirit manifestation. Many interesting facts were
brought forward and theories discussed, and a mass of interesting in¬
formation elicited from experienced Spiritualists, such as Dr. Gully,
Mr. C. F. Varley, and many others. The records of these discussions
will form a literature of permanent value, and will be read with interest
wherever Spiritualism finds a footing. Among ourselves the result has
been the formation of an Experimental Research Committee for tabulating
and classifying the facts of mediumship in the manner of other scien¬
tific bodies; on the whole, perhaps the most important work that can
be undertaken by such a society as ours.
The soirees have been held monthly throughout the year, and are now
self-supporting.
Of late an attempt has been made to minister to the requirements of
our country members by instituting a course of lectures, to be delivered
by Dr. Sexton, at various towns in the North of England. The lecturer’s
fees have been paid by the Association, and Dr. Sexton seems to have
met with his usual success.
The Council has done what it could to assist some of the industrious
and deserving workers in our movement. Donations have been severally
made in aid of the labours of Dr. Sexton, Mr. R. Cogman, and Mrs.
Bullock. The same help was offered towards the support of the
Doughty Hall Sunday Free Meetings, but was declined by Mr. Bums.
SEANCES.
It remains to mention the seances which were begun first at wide
intervals, and are now, through the generosity of Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, carried on weekly with great success. Up to the present, Mr.
Williams and Mr. Eglinton have been employed, both of which excellent
mediums have given the greatest satisfaction. Last summer two seances
were held by Mrs. Hardy, of New York; the Bamford brothers have
also sat here, and Mrs. Olive receives sitters weekly at the present time.
Our seance room has sometimes also been let to members for their private
use, and the Council room has also been engaged for committee
meetings, thereby assisting to defray the permanent expenses of the
Association.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The medals for the first year’s prize essays, on the subject, “ Tie
Probable Influence of Spiritualism on the Religious, Moral, and Social
May 26, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
Condition of Society,” have been awarded to Miss Anna Blackwell and
Mr. G. F. Green respectively. It has been decided to print the essays,
and it is expected that they will appear very shortly.
ALLIANCE OF KINDRED SOCIETIES.
Although a year ago only one local society, the Liverpool Psycholo¬
gical Society, had accepted our proffered hand of brotherhood, several
others, both at home and abroad, have since entered into terms of
friendly alliance with us. The first example, in the month of July last,
was set by L' Union Spirite et Magnetique, of Brussels, which has itself
since become the centre of a National Confederation of Belgian
Spiritists, formed on the model of our Association. This was quickly
followed by the newly-formed Brixton Psychological Society, in the
month of August; by the Buda-Pesth Society of Hungarian Spiritists,
with whose patrons, the Baron and Baroness Von Yay, our Association
has always been on close terms of friendship; by the Dalston Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism; and, latterly, by the Cardiff
Spiritual Society. Mutual privileges have been interchanged, and we
are all working in harmony together. A correspondence has lately
been set on foot with the chief Spanish societies, both on the European
and American Continents—societies representing many thousand pro¬
fessors of the doctrines of Spiritism. In the United States, where
Spiritualists are less organised than in countries of older civilisation,
no alliance of societies with our Association has taken place, but our
relations with the most eminent Spiritualists, and with the leading
newspapers of that country, are of the most satisfactory nature. The
same may be said of Paris, the Hague, Leipsic, and St. Petersburg.
The last event we have to chronicle is the recent adjustment of our
relations with The Spiritualist newspaper. A discussion having arisen
on the question of Mr. Harrison’s occupancy of a room on the premises
of the Association, an agreement has been entered into with Mr.
Harrison, terminating in March next.
We have now but to enumerate those kind friends who have, at
various times during the past year, been the benefactors of the Asso¬
ciation. Mr. Charles Blackburn, who has defrayed the expense of
twenty-four seances, thereby making them nominally free to our mem¬
bers, and entirely so to investigators ; Mr. Martin Smith, who has
given handsome presents of books to the library, in addition to large
donations to all our objects, and various other favours; Mr. Calder, the
donor of the two valuable oil-paintings wliich adorn the walls of our
reading-room; Mr. Martheze, Mr. Whitear, Mr. A. Tod, Mr. T. E.
Partridge, who presented us with twenty-five musical boxes, for pur
own use and for the benefit of our funds; Mr. Edmands, Mr. Dixon,
and Sir Charles Isham; also Mrs. Everitt, who has kindly given
numerous free stances to our members. To all of these and many
others our thanks are due for gifts and favours of various kinds. We
must also, in justice, include Mr. W. H. Harrison, the Editor of The
Spiritualist, who has reported our meetings and inserted many of our
advertisements free of cost, introduced a large number of influential
members, and generally endeavoured to forward the interests of the
Association.
The work which your Council has effected will, we venture to hope,
appear to you to have been, on the whole, of a character likely to
enhance the strength and dignity of our movement, by placing Spirit¬
ualism before the world in a form which it has not hitherto been
encouraged to assume—a form which will stand the rigid investigation
of the critical, and satisfy, to some extent at least, the demands of the
scientific mind.
Income and Expenditure Account for the year ending December 31, 1875.
Receipts.
Expenditure.
£ s. d.
Balance from 1874  11 11 10
Subscriptions, 1875   249 10 6
Donations  24 0 3
Guarantee Fund  198 17 6
Bazaar account    102 7 3
Interest account  0 10 4
Seances, balance still in band ... 9 0 0
£595 17 8
Audited and found correct,
Morell Theobald, Chairman.
Alexander Calder,
Martin B. Smith, Hon. Treasr.
£ s. d.
Public Meetings, etc  0 16 9
Donations  8 8 0
Stationery and printing   36 16 5
Bent, rates, etc :.  79 11 8
Advertising     35 16 1
Postage 1  14 7 5
Salaries  139 4 0
Furnishing account and library 201 4 9
Soirees, etc. (loss)   3 15 1
Housekeeping and sundries ... 18 11 10
Balance   57 5 8
£595 17 8
Finance Committee, February, 1876.
Signed on behalf of the Council,
Alexander Calder, Chairman,
The adoption of the report was moved by Mr. Algernon Joy, and
seconded by Mrs. Makdougall-Gregory.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers moved an amendment, that the words “ gene¬
rally endeavoured to forward the interests of the Association’’ be
omitted. This was seconded by Miss Houghton, supported by Mr.
Everitt, and negatived by the meeting by a majority of twenty-two to
eight.
Mr. Rogers moved that the vote be taken by proxy instead of by show
of hands, but withdrew his demand at the request of Mr. Bennett.
The report was then unanimously adopted.
ELECTION OF NEW MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.
Mr. Morell Theobald and Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., were appointed
scrutineers to count the votes by proxy. After doing so, the following
twenty-six members were declared duly elected to serve upon the
Council:—Mr. A. Calder, Mr. W. H. Coffin, Rev. T. Colley, Mrs. Kenin-
gale Cook, Mr. N. F. Dawe, Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., Mrs. D.
G. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. A. Glendinning, Mrs. Makdougall-Gregory, Mrs.
Honywood, Mr. C. T. Hook, Mr. Geo. Hudson, Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.,
Mr. H. D. Jencken, Barrister-at-Law, Mr. Algernon Joy, M.I.C.E., Mr.
George King, F.S.S., Mrs. Maltby, Mr. F. W. Mansell, Mr. C. E. Mas¬
sey, Barrister-at-Law, Rev. W. W. Newbould, Mr. Martin R. Smith,
Mr. St. George W. Stock, M.A., Mr. M. J. Walhouse, F.R.A.S., Mr. H.
Wedgwood, Mrs, Wiseman, Miss H. Withall.
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS.
Mr. Andre and Mr. Henry Cook were unanimously appointed auditors
for the ensuing year on behalf of the ordinary members of the Associa¬
tion.
The following amended motion by Mr. Tapp was then passed—“ That,
in addition to the Annual General Meeting in May, another general
meeting be held in each year.”
Mr. A. Joy moved that the following words be added—“And that no
election of officers or members of Council shall take place at such
second annual general meeting.”
Mr. Tapp said that was what he intended, and that he wished the
words to be added to the resolution. The object of a second annual
meeting was, that a large and important Association like that should
have an opportunity of talking over its public affairs twice a year instead
of once.
Mr. Rogers said that there was no necessity to make the proposed
addition, because the rules provided against two elections in a year.
Mr. Joy’s addition to the resolution was consequently not made.
The following amended resolution by Mr. E. T. Bennett was then
passed—“ That it would be desirable for the Council to arrange two or
more Conferences, to be held during the summer at some of the prin¬
cipal provincial centres of Spiritualism, such as Liverpool, Birmingham,
and Newcastle, by invitation from Spiritualists in such localities, the
interest and support of local Spiritualists being as much as possible
aroused to render the Conferences successful.”
Mr. Calder moved, and Mr. Tapp seconded, a vote of thanks to Mr.
Jencken for the ability with which he had conducted the business of the
meeting as chairman.
This was carried unanimously, and the proceedings closed.
We are glad to be able to state that news has recently been received
that Mr._John Lament is fast recovering from the effects of injuries
which he suffered in a recent railway collision.
A telegram informs us that Mr. Eglinton is so prostrated by illness
at the house of Mr. Harries, of Landport, Portsmouth, as to be unable
to travel.
Reception at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—Last Saturday night
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,
London, gave a reception to Spiritualistic and other friends, among
whom were Mr. Eyre, Lady Milford, Dr. J. M. Gully, Mr. and Mrs.
Hoffman, Lady Yere Cameron, Mrs. Limond Strong, the Misses Strong,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Count Wimpffen, the Countess Wimpffen, Mr.
Davidson, Mr. George Sutherland, Mr. Algernon Joy, Lady Georgiana
Hobart, Mr. and Mrs. Cholmondeley Pennell, Mr. Bennett, Mr.
Barber, Mr. Stainton-Moses, Miss Hope, and Mr. Drummond, of Haw-
thornden.
A Death Warning.—The Birmingham Daily Post says that “ the
circumstances of the death of Thomas Lord Lyttleton in 1779 were of
the most extraordinary kind, the day and hour of his dissolution having,
it is said, been foretold to him ; and though his friends altered all the
clocks in his house to dispel his gloom, die he did at the time named.
There is such authentication of this story that the explaining of it away
has never been satisfactorily achieved, and it was a ghost story which
even Dr. Johnson was wjlling to believe. The title became extinct witli
the death of this nobleman, to whom a curt inscription in Hagley
church is devoted; but it was revived again in 1791, in the person of
William Henry, Governor of Carolina County, Jamaica.”
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—We have received the following cha¬
racteristic letter :—“ To my Sister and Brother Spiritualists, in town
and country. May it please you!—I beg to notify, herewith, that (God
willing) Meyerbeer Hall, 5, Hardman-street, in the centre of this town
of Liverpool, will be inaugurated as a new Temple of Truth, or Spiritual
Church of the Future, on Whit Sunday next, June 4th, when it is hoped
that all friends of ‘ The Cause Divine ’ (to whom it may not be incon¬
venient or disagreeable) will lend the favour of their countenance,
either by personal attendance or sympathy of soul; i.e., if separated in
body, not disunited in spirit. Mrs. Nosworthy has kindly consented to
give an address in the evening, at seven o’clock, on ‘ Alleged Experi¬
ences of the Future Life,’ and I hope to make some introductory
observations, at three o’clock, on * The Vocation of the Truthseeker in
this our Age and Nation.’ Mr. John Priest will preside. Fraternally
ever, William Hitchman, M.D.”
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—On Sunday last Mr. J. J. Morse
delivered two trance addresses in the Islington Assembly Rooms, Liver¬
pool, to fair and appreciative audiences. On Whit-Sunday next the
meetings held as above will be removed to Meyerbeer Hall, Hardman-
street, Liverpool, Dr. William Hitchman having generously undertaken
the responsibility of so doing. On Monday evening, the 22nd inst., Mr.
Morse delivered a trance address—the first public one ever given—in
the Temperance Hall, Sheffield, Mr. Councillor Bacon in the chair; a
good audience was present. A committee selected a subject, and an
excellent address was given, which was warmly applauded at the close.
Mr. Morse proceeds to Jersey this evening, and will deliver trance
addresses in the Prince of Wales’s Rooms, Jersey, on the nights of May
30th, 31st, and June 1st; Lieut.-Col. Fawcitt will preside on each occa¬
sion. Mr. Morse will afterwards speak as follows: Doughty Hall,
Bedford-row, London, Sunday, June 4th, 7 p.m.; Newcastle-on-Tyne,
Sunday and Monday, June 11th and 12th ; Liverpool to follow ; Halifax,
June 25th. All letters to be addressed, Mr. J. J. Morse, Warwick
Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
252
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 26, 1876,
IJoettg.
LIFE—NOT DEATH.
On the departure at Easter of a dear young friend.
Strew not poor flowers o’er his grave,
Things with ill tidingsjrife ;
The tokens which our spirits crave
Should tell of joy and life,
For greater beauty decks his tomb
Than any earth-born wreaths that bloom.
The loving word, the kindly smile,
When cares our life o’ercast;
The bright young spirit to beguile
Our own, when youth was past:
All ever bloom in memory
Among the things which never die.
The tale your passing flower tells
Is one of death and woe ;
So chime the merry Easter bells
That all around may know!
A pure young soul with Christ is risen,
Another angel lives in heaven.
Or shouldst thou cry, “ Alas! alas !
Lord, give him back to me; ”
Your honest prayer may bring to pass
A vision fair to see—
A sight too good for common eyes,
Which faith to holy love supplies.
Thou Source of light, these visions rare
To Thy poor sons be given,
Still living on with him to share
In Thee some glimpse of heaven ;
For heaven, Thou hast said, shall be
Within the soul that lives for Thee. R. A. Cox.
(Eottespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALISM IN NORTHUMBERLAND AND DURHAM.
Sir,—The committee of the Newcastle-on-Tyne Society of Spirit¬
ualists at Weir’s-court, Newgate-street, have instructed me to inform
the Spiritualists in the counties of Northumberland and Durham, that
it is the intention of the society to hold a conference on Sunday, June
11th, at the Freemasons’ Old Hall, Newcastle. The object is to make
an organised effort to further the cause of Spiritualism; to utilise local
mediumship; and to bring the various centres of Spiritualism into greater
unity of action. Therefore, all Spiritualists or secretaries of societies
who are desirous of aiding in the above plan will greatly oblige by com¬
municating with us at once. The morning meeting, at 10.30, will be
devoted to receiving reports, along with suggestions for carrying on the
work, by the formation of a district committee. The afternoon meeting,
beginning at 2.30 p.m., will be occupied in electing a general executive
to carry out the designs of the committee ; after which, at 4.30 p.m., tea
will be provided, tickets, Is. each. In the evening, at 7 o’clock, a
public meeting will be held (admission free), at which Mr. J. J. Morse
will be present. A cordial invitation is extended to all who are desirous
of working for the cause. Jas. T. Rhodes,
Corresponding Secretary to the Newcastle Society.
80, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
MR. EGLINTON IN MANCHESTER—REMARKABLE MOULD OF A MATERIALISED
SPIRIT HAND.
Sir,—I went with Mr. Oxley to see the gentleman who obtained
through Mr. Eglinton’s mediumship a mould of a female hand under
circumstances which, as stated in my last, cast suspicion on the honesty | >!
of Mr. Eglinton, although, it seemed to me, more from the manner the j)
facts were viewed than in their intrinsic force as evidence; as in most \\\
cases where truth is caught by the lobster-fangs of suspicion. It is, ijj
therefore, to me a pleasant duty to state the real facts as they present jt]
themselves to us towards Mr. Eglinton’s vindication. Instead of the |(j
alleged difference of colour in the mould, we found none whatever; the |||
mould was clean, the remainder of the paraffin dirty. The colouring u
stuff, also, had sunk to the bottom to a large extent, and the spirit had j j!
successfully fished out the clean surface of the mixture.
The mould is a most interesting one. The skin-marks are clearly |\|
discernible, although few and far between. Its general appearance is ijj
that of a decayed hand; it has crampy contractions; but the most ci
remarkable feature is the extreme thinness of the thumb. I have well j s j
studied the flexibility of moulds when still warm, and learnt to be !ji
exceedingly cautious as to dematerialisation, even where no slit-line is it!
perceptible. If I can with one eye perceive the greater part of the j(j
inside, without shifting the point of view, I do not believe in it, but i j i
accept “ extrication,” in spite of some curvature. The effacing of nearly jt
all the finer marks in this mould leads me to believe in the extraction of j (j
the hand whilst the wax was still very soft. But the unnatural small- j ji
ness of the thumb is the puzzle. Pressure on a warm mould may ijj
flatten or distort, but the space of the hollow fingers remains the same. I jj
Here the whole length of thumb is strikingly in disproportion, and m
looks like a piece of a skeleton, rather than flesh. Whether the dipping j J j
arrested the process of materialisation, or the latter could not reach the j ji
climax, are points for reflection; and, from this point of view, the result ijj
of Mr. Eglinton’s visit may prove scientifically valuable. i(j
In conclusion, it gives me pleasure to find the tone of local papers on j jj
the subject evidently improving, and keeping the clumsy “ trickery”
twaddle carefully within certain limits. I read a little attempt at
ridicule in The Manchester Critic. It amuses, helps digestion, and
pays. C. Reimers,
||j a materialisation seance.
ijj Sir,—We had a very striking sitting for materialisation with Miss
jjj Lottie Fowler on Saturday last. The company consisted of Mr.
jjj Bydder, R.N., and his wife, Mr. Forster, Mr. Poole, Mr. and Mrs.
ijj Regan, and myself. Miss Fowler’s bedroom was converted into a
jjj cabinet by curtains across the doorway, and previous to the sitting we
ijj were invited in to make a thorough search. I looked under the bed,
ijj the only place where a person could be concealed, and locked the doors,
iji leaving the only open access through the sitting-room in which we
j j were. My chair was within six feet of the doorway, with a very good
jjj light. Three figures in white came out into the room, of different
jjj sizes, from two or three inches taller than the medium to two or three
iji inches shorter. The first was a young man with dark moustaches, said
j)j to be Hendrik, a brother, I believe, of Madame Yon Vay. He struck
jjj himself sounding blows on the chest, to show, I suppose, how solid
ijj he was, and made me examine his face within a few inches. He
] Jj asked for a pair of scissors, gathered up the front of his long night-
i shirt-looking garment into a bunch, hacked off enough of it to give
us all a piece, and then shook out the robe, showing no hole in it.
Then we had a nun, who also was very anxious to show me her
face, taking my hand and passing it all over her features, and
rubbing it strongly down her nose, making me clearly feel that
it was no mask. She called up each in turn, kissing Mrs. Bydder.
IThen we had a shorter figure, who said she would try to bring out Miss
Fowler into the room, but we were not to expect that she would do that
j at every sitting. On this occasion, however, she succeeded completely,
pushing her medium before her, and standing beside her against the
doorway in open sight of all of us, Miss Fowler all in black supported
by the white spirit, who stroked her face, led her about, and on one
j occasion sank down by her side. Miss Fowler was repeatedly brought
jjj out in this way, and the two must have been together before our eyes
jjj for more than five minutes. Finally the spirit went inside, leaving Miss
jjj Fowler to recover from her trance before us. As soon as she was
j j j awake we went inside the bedroom, found both doors locked, and no one
ijj there. I looked under the bed again. H. Wedgwood.
j j May 22nd, 1876.
WAX MOULDS FROM TEMPORARILY MATERIALISED SPIRIT HANDS.
j (j Sir,—Mr. Willie Eglinton had great success with us at our Ports-
jjj mouth circle (No. 1) on Sunday last. The great feature of the evening
jjj was the casts of psychic or spirit hands, under the most perfect test
j/j conditions, and in good light. The proceedings began (when, like all
j J j good people, we had been to church) by a full-light sitting for clair-
j jj voyant purposes. Several remarkable tests of this nature were afforded
ijj various members and visitors of our circle, whose circumstances and
ijl spiritual surroundings could by no means have been known to Mr.
ijj Eglinton, and ‘conviction was in this way carried to minds antagonistic
jjj to the matter, that this phase of Spiritualism, at least, was a fact. We
jjj then had a dark sitting, when the usual phenomena occurred. The
jjj musical box being wound up by spirit-power, and carried playing about
jjj the room, touching one and another in its transit. At request, the
jjj music was suddenly, upon the instant, stopped, then renewed, then
j Jj played very rapidly, then very slowly, as required. One tune was also
j jj made to shift into another, without a moment’s pause, at our will,
|jj courteously expressed. Then two tunes were played together. Then a
j ji strange instrument, the like of which had never been heard, was played
jjj to the accompaniment of the musical box, weirdly beautiful. Joey said
this strange instrument was materialised for the occasion, and dissipated
again. Spirit-lights were seen, and various other matters, with direct
voices and raps, were our portion to puzzle over.
Then the cabinet sitting was formed, simply a curtained corner of the
room. Several draped forms appeared, and walked out in light sufficient
to read by. In the dark portion of this sitting “ Ernest ” walked about
with his phosphorescent light, illuminating therewith his features and
dress. But the point of the evening previous to this was, as I have
said, the successful taking of the cast of a little hand, announced to be
that of a little fellow, a relative of the family of the house where we
were gathered, and a very frequent and most welcome visitant to us
from higher spheres. One other small hand was partially cast, but the
circumstance to be particularly noted was that all was done in the light,
Mr. Eglinton’s hands being thrust through the curtain in view of all,
and inspected by several, and held by one of us throughout the entire
process. We heard the splash of the materialised glove of the spirit as
it was dipped into the hot paraffin, and then plunged into the cold water,
and so backwards and forwards several times. I was then told to enter
the cabinet and take charge of the pails, floating on the surface of the
cold water in the one of which was the beautiful cast so mysteriously
taken. We have just had in one of the staff of the Hampshire Tele¬
graph to inspect the cast before it is filled with cement, and under
microscopic scrutiny with a Stanhope lense, in the presence also of a
medical gentleman, who was with us last night when it was taken ; the
flesh marks and dimples are clearly seen, and a report of the mar¬
vellous matter will appear in the local press. Thomas Colley.
11, Bellevue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth,
May 22nd, 1876.
Miss Rhondda Lawrence, of Cardiff, a young lady well known and
much respected by many of the readers of these pages, and who pos¬
sessed medial powers, passed to the higher life a few days ago.
May 26, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not In any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, 8 by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Enes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This uewlyjpublished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Volk, crown Svo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—^"Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered oy a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatoiogy; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spirit, and the Prophets Thereof;, Anti-
Superaatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles aud Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatoiogy; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church aud the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualise ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opini&i that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made;by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, aud professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Od.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John 8. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. "
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration¬
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 63. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by Wilham Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Od.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazuln and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A, 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 0s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com-
muiiications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
~ ~ ' ,, n.
,, HI.
„ IV. „ . ,
„ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Pe
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings .
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . .
s d.
15 0
7 6
7 fi
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
5 0
7 6
2 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosopliical, considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Od.) 4s..
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms\(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . .. . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A . 10 0
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by^James Legge, D.D., LL.B. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople , . . . . . ' 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ....... 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 fi
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.RAS
Special edition for Schools , 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers, is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas E.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R, Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
V
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 26, 1876,
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM* ANHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable • of W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News¬
paper Branfth Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented, on the premises.of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist, Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.}
Brice 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Golby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
. Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office. 
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVEB SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Beimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
FB S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price Gd.: post free, G^d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, Gs.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published at 7s. Gd. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. Gd. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All Communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. Gd. each, post free 11s. Gd., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Ceiticisms.
“ Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.”—Christian World.
“ The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who may be inclined to take the work
in hand, we may briefly state that the.line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test”—Tiocl-.
In Two Vols., Svo. cloth, price 28s.
A PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE ON THE
NATURE AND CONSTITUTION OF MAN. By
Geoegb Haeeis, LL.D., F.S.A., Vice-President of the Psy¬
chological Society and of the Anthropological Institute, and
author of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisation considered
as a Science,” &c. This work embraces a comprehensive and
complete survey of the nature and constitution of man
physical, moral, and intellectual, exhibiting moreover the
mutual connection and dependence of each branch. Topics
connected with the spiritual beieg, and the leading opinions
on this subject, including the nature, essence, propertits, and
mode of operation, of the soul; the alliance between matter
and spirit; reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity
are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of our
intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution, mode
of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the topics here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, phy¬
siology] and natural history, have been in correspondence
with, and have been consulted by the author, by several of
whom notes of much interest and value, on different important
controverted points, have been contributed.
London: G. Bell & Sons, York-street, Covent-garden. 1876.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
jrhe:.abOve fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC’’ an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. Gd. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and.CO., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rodse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kaedec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown Svo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. Gd.
Price Is. OJd., post free.
Marriage law injustice. An ex¬
posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Binney.
 Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 3, Bond-street. 
Three copies post free for Gd.
THE WR1TINGB OF EMANUEL SWEDEN¬
BORG. DO THEY ENCOURAGE ADULTERY AND
ITS KINDRED VICES ? By Thomas Robinson.
Also other works by the same Author.
Address—H. Barlow and Son, Stationers, &c., Oldham-road,
Newtonheath, near Manchester.
THE HOME FOR ^SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C .
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on the principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the pnneipa 1
railways, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance
Manages—Mrs. A. C. Buekk.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE:
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A., 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucoster-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 1G, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosveuor-sqnare.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon,Esq, M.D.. 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C,
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westboume-
park.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4, Castledine -road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq, Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq, Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Hon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
Sec., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The following sums have been already subscribed:—
A Friend  £50 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq  50 0 0
A. V. H  30 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq  25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq.    25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq    25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq    25 0 9
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq    20 0 0
O. v. Hoffman....  20 0 0
James Wason, Esq  20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg    19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq.    10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq. ’.  10 10 0
A Friend       10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire     10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq     10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours    10 0 0
W. C. Ooppertbwaite, Esq  10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq    10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq  10 0 0
J. Ridley, Esq •••  10 0 .0
Mrs. Hamilton    10 0 0
Mrs. Daun     10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq  10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings   5 5 0
Mrs. Berry        5 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq..    5 5 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq  5 0 0
O. Townsend Hook, Esq      5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq.      5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq .'.  5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq.     5 0 0
Mrs. Watts .'.  5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq   5 0 0
P. G  5 0 0
M. G. S    5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq.     5 0 0
J. H. D     5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq     5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart....   5 0 0
J. S. Law, Esq .'.    5 0 0
Friend, per Mrs. Vernon    3 3 0
G. de Lagare     3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq    3 3 0
Miss Clark    3 0 0
S. O. Hall, Esq    2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq  2 2 0
C. Stephens, Esq  2 2 0
Dr. R. Baikie   2 2 0
F        2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear      2 2 0
Miss Whitear  2 2 0
Thomas Scott, Esq.    2 2 0
D. G.'Fitzgerald, Esq  2 2 0
Miss Watts  2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D  2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq      2 0 0
M. DeVeh    1  2 0 0
John Lamont, Esq.   2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq  2 0 0
Miss Douglas  2 0 0
R.B.     .'  110
D. H.W  110
A. Glendinning, Esq    110
W. Glynes, Esq  110
J. T. Peele, Esq    110
Dr. C. L. Robertson  110
Mrs. S. Dickson  110
J. Gledstanes, Esq.  10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory   10 0
Dr. Hayle  10 0
C. P. Carter, Esq  10 0
Mrs. Wiseman....    10 0
Baronin v. Vay '.  0 18 4
O. Parsons, Esq  0 10 6
C. O.G. .  0 10 0
D. S. V.  0 7 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
