[Registered as a Newspaper.
CIj£ #Itef toxtfj Spinitralkm m <&xmi gntaht.
THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. (opposite the British Museum), and 11, Ave
Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. ROME: The Inter*
national Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Rearney-street.
No. 191.—(Vol.viil—No. 16.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1876.
orontents.
The Investigation of Spiritual Phenomena at St. Peters¬
burg—Termination of the St. Petersburg Inquiry ...... 181
Materialism and Modern Spiritualism. By St. George W.
Slock, M.A  182
The Development of New Manifestations   183
Information for American Mediums  184
Spirit Identity         184
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Council    ...mm      184
Provincial News:—Mat ton, Is Spiritualism a Delusion, an
Imposition, or a Truth?—iVeircastle-on-l'yne—£!yth—
Seghtil—South Shields—Ohester-le-Street  185
Another Sad Case in Liverpool     186
The Fortnightly Meetings of the National Association of
Spiritualists        187
Jocular and Religious Seances. By J. M. Gully, M.D  187
The Moulding of Spirit Hands and Feet in Manchester—
Extraordinary Materialisation Manifestations. By Wil¬
liam Oxley 7. .:   {     188
Correspondence:—The Story of the Conversion to Spirit¬
ualism of a Scientific Inquirer—Exciting Manifestations
at Home—Hafed, Prince of Persia—The Scattergood
Testimonial-Mysterious Household Disturbances—Or¬
ganic Changes in the Spiritual Movement—Perpetuated
Individuality—The “Double.” Who are the Produ¬
cers thereof ?—Spiritualism in Islington—The Present
Opinions of the late Mr. Guppy—A good Test Seance
’ Relating to Materialised Spirit Drapery      188
Answers to Correspondents  192
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Dalston, 186; The Travels
of Mr. Peebles, 187; Mrs. Jackson in Naples. 187;
Spiritualism in the Provinces, 187; National Associa¬
tion Offices, 187; Sir Henry Morgan   192
^Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
V7 crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement i Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, mid an advertisement is. not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lod.
Editor's Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. London,
W.C City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London. E.O.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
RusseU-street, London, W.G.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN, a practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Beveridge and co., Printers of m
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
Vni.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s 6d. each, at The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.  
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SocidU
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
Reflexionen aus der GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Jo? efstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN,
PSYCHOPATHIC HEALER,
37, HART STREET, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C.
Attendance givenpersonally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in
accordance with patient’s means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager. -
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, Marshall $ Co.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence,
PUBLIC MEETINGS.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance a l
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
East London spiritual meetings.—•
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered.every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’n
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
SOUTH LONDON ASSOCIATION OF
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. List of meetings
during the week: Sunday, Trance or other Address at Seven;
Monday, Discussion and Conversational Meeting at Eight;
Tuesday, Developing Circle, at Eight, members only; Thurs¬
day, /Seance at Eight, members only; Fiiday, /Seance at Eight,
members only; Saturday, Seance at Eight, non-members, Sd
Members Is. per quarter, and 2d. on attending a Seance. Any
further information can be obtained at the rooms on any
evening. J. Bubton, Hon. Secretary.
Price Is. 0|d., post free.
Marriage law injustice. An ex¬
posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Binney.
Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 3, Bond-street.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of hooks, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by tho
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
MRS. WOODFORDE begs to announce her
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE to 8, Milton-streei, Dorset-
square (near Baker-street Station), where she will be glad to
welcome, as of old, all friends and visitors. Physical seances
with two first-class mediums, will be held as usual, every Thurs •
day and Saturday evenings. Usual manifestations—direct
voice, direct writing, and materialisations (if conditions serve)
of the friends of visitors, also a new materialised musical in¬
strument, played (it is said by Blondel) with remarkable skill
in accompaniment of the musical box. Especial invitations
will be issued for the Saturday evenings, and an introduction
from some well-known Spiritualist is requested for the Thurs¬
day evenings. All friends who have been in the habit of
attending Mrs. Woodforde’s seances will always be welcome.
Admission, 5s.
Mrs. Wood fordo is also open to engagements for private
physical seances to be held at her own residence; a few days
previous notice must he given. Names will be received for a
daylight seance to be held shortly. With pleasant rooms
open to her visitors, and every effort made to obtain superior
manifestations, Mrs. Woodforde hopes to afford those who
will honour her with their presence, some most agreeable and
satisfactory seances.
gERMONS by T. L. HARRIS. London Seriee.
Containing—I.—Modern Spiritualism.
II. —Heart Wants of London.
III. —Christ Incarnate.
IY.—Liberty and Progress.
In limp cloth binding, 6d ; free by post, 7d.
John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, skirts, and umbrellas.
Jnst Published, price 10s. 5d.
THE MECHANISM OF MAN • An Answer
to the Question, “What am I? ” A Popular Introduc¬
tion to Psychology and Mental Physiology. By Edward W.
Oox, Serjeant-at-Law, President of the Psychological Society
of Great Britain. Vol. I., The Mechanism. Contents—Part J,
Introductory; Part, 2, The Mechanism; Part 3, The Forets
that Move and Direct the Mechanism—Life, Mind, Soul.
London: Longmans and Co.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 21, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL -ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereforu-square, West Brompton, S.W.
'oleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
.Everitt, Thonias, Lilian-vUla, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Uerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gresory. Mi's. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, Wi
Gully, d. M., M.Di, Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, WiUiam, M.li.C.S., 29, Ersklne-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Hollywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-squaro, S.W. .. XJi
Jeucken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barristcr-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 48, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin It., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tern pieman, M.D., Douglas House", 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wasou, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.AV.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, AV. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Itichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, AV.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Araubrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, AAr.
Dawson, George II., 1, Earlhain-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
fdmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
veritt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, llolder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AV.
Fitton, R- 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
FitK-GoSmd,Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Iteixton, S.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, AV.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, AVest-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
■ park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, AV.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Xvimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AV.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.AV.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AV. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s
Park., N.AV.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E. ,
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trat'algar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood.-S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margarefs-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M» M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, It; Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
AAredgwood, Ilensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AV.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. II. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S AV., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham J unction, S.AV.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, AV.
AVithall, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV.
within, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
AVood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin K. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, AVimbledon-common, S.AV.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-streot, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn AATttgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russle, Nieder AValluf
on the Rhine, near AViesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassini Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Aray, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 18, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, AVurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq.; Numberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-strqet, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,.M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G, L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray-Spear< Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel AVatson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaiise St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelmc Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Licut.-Col. P. Jdcoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontccorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
" Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff" Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery,. St. Mary-
street, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid.stude.nt8 and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, tidied Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, AV.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may lie had upon application.
'The entrance to the offices is in AVobum-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Aiosworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr GL Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainswoith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, nr such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual cnlture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instrnction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
SQUARB, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Art, magic, mundane, sub-mun-
DaNE, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press,-and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and pay¬
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending books to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author’sbebalf, does not feel jus ifled
in sending out such a rare and valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the hook sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretiry for the publication of Art Magic, &c., 206, West 38th-
street, New York, America.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 8, Milton-street, Dorset-square.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, hell on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 8, Milton-street,
Dorset-square (a few doors from Marylebone-road).
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MRS. MALTBY, Magnetic Healer, 26,
Southampton-rOW, Holbom, W.C. Mrs. Maltby
receives patients and others wishing to consult her, daily
between the hours of eleYfch find five.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
IVTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
_L v Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, the Physical
Medium, being about to make a tour in the Provinces,
desires that all London engagements with him should be made
as soon as possible, as he will probably leave London by the
end of May. He is at liberty to receive engagements during
the day or evening at private houses. Address, Mr. Willie
Eglinton, tit. James’s House, Walthamstow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambulist, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Homs, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. 6d. Seances for
Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings at 8
o'clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence,
nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Mediumship, its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: OSWALD Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Eussell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
fi. J^rit tl % ut nnb trf ^pujilurfi$ttt>
Volume Eiqht. Number Sixteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 21st, 1876.
THE INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AT
ST. PETERSBURG.
As yet nothing has been oflficially made known about the
results of the inquiry into the phenomena of modern Spirit¬
ualism which is going on at St. Petersburg. If the investi¬
gators have complied with the conditions under which the
phenomena have been proved by experience to be evolved,
as laid down, for instance, in the “ Instructions How to Form
Spirit Circles,” which we printed weekly for several years
in the advertising columns of this journal, for the guidance of
the general public, there can be no question that long before
this they have evolved results. But if, on the other hand,
they have taken up the position previously assumed by too
many physicists both in England and America, and have
attempted to impose their own conditions upon the laws of
nature, and have demanded that the manifestations shall
then take place as they order, they have, in all probability,
involved themselves in a dismal failure. The only thing
which could have prevented such failure would have been the
engagement of an exceedingly powerful medium, who obtains
manifestations under the most adverse conditions, but such
mediums are rare. Mrs. Fay is one ; the Davenport Brothers
belong to the category, and there are some few others. This
is why, at the outset, we advised the St. Petersburg committee
to engage one such medium, no matter at what expense,
because the observers would at all events be sure of results.
Ordinary mediums, as a general rule, obtain manifestations
with power only when they are thoroughly comfortable and
happy, and when they know themselves to be surrounded by
friendly influences. Some of the best manifestations occur
during trance, but it cannot be expected that any sensible
person can pass off gently into a state of sleep or trance
when he knows he is surrounded by a dozen or two people
who have prejudged him to be an impostor, who have broken
through all the conditions under which the manifestations
usually take place, and whom he looks upon consequently as
his natural enemies. If, up to the present time, the mem¬
bers of the St. Petersburg committee have not been so suc¬
cessful as they could wish, they had better read through our
u Instructions for Forming Spirit Circles,” which instruc¬
tions can be lent to them by M. Aksakof, and see in what
point they have broken those conditions. If they still insist
upon breaking conditions, they had better engage one of the
few strong mediums who can obtain manifestations under
the most adverse circumstances. If, on the other hand, they
have complied with the instructions which we published for
so long a time, they have obtained plenty of manifestations
long before this.
Any decision that the St. Petersburg committee may come to,
will not retard the multiplication of the facts of Spiritualism,
or impede the progress of the knowledge thereof; but the
committee will have placed itself in a false position before
the world, if on the one hand it has broken the conditions
under which incipient manifestations occur, and if on the
other it has not had' a single sitting with a medium pos¬
sessing among Spiritualists an established reputation as a
person in whose presence test phenomena take place. The
Petty brothers do not answer this description; they were
scarcely known at all in England until M. Aksakof drew strong
attention to them by describing their manifestations, and
taking them to Eussia. Psychic Studies stated that nothing
was obtained through their mediumship at St. Petersburg,
but there is a discrepancy in the evidence, for Colonel Olcott,
in a letter to The Banner of Light, of Jan. 1st, 1876, stated
that Madame Blavatsky had received a letter from M.
Aksakof, containing the following description of manifes¬
tations obtained in the presence of the committee :—“ We
placed the elder one, well secured, behind a curtain stretched
across the corner of the room. Before him stood a table,
I j and on this we fixed a wooden cage about one cubic foot in
j size, which could be securely locked with a key. In the
| walls of the cage the apertures were not larger than would
I admit the insertion of a lead pencil. Inside the cage a
| hand-bell was placed, and the door was then locked, the
| key removed, and the room darkened. The bell was soon
i \ \ rung loudly and repeatedly. It was a splendid test.” Yet
jfj Psychic Studies afterwards said that nothing was obtained.
Ij Have we here a repetition of the old story, exemplified at
j Harvard University, and elsewhere, that when physicists
! have been fairly beaten, they have been afraid to state the
! facts, and have wriggled out of them by some extravagant
j special pleading, in order to save themselves from the adverse
j public opinion of the ignorant ? The motion of a table they
j might own, since they could afterwards indulge in endless
j learned palaver about a “ new force,” but the ringing of a
j hand-bell inside a box savours too strongly of u spirits,” the
[ existence of which must on no account be admitted. Has
j M. Aksakof discovered that he has erred in placing strong
meat before babes and sucklings ?
In the same letter M. Aksakof says :—u I am extremely
j well satisfied with our scientific committee. Nothing more
j could be desired in this respect. Without exception they
i) j are so amiable and so ready to comply with any reasonable
!j conditions demanded, that it would be a great misfortune if
Spiritualists were not to profit by the opportunity now
j offered for a thorough investigation.” Let us hope he has
not since had reason to alter his opinion. Until phenomena
j have been obtained, and the duty of attesting them devolves
j upon the observers, one cannot tell much about the real
! moral calibre of committees. We know several eminent
j men of science, who like schoolmasters do good work bj7,
j old-established methods in continuation of well-beaten
j tracks, but who after witnessing some of the unpopular
j phenomena of Spiritualism, have failed to grasp the great
i opportunity of ceasing to become technical pedagogues, and
j proving themselves to be men.
M. Aksakof further says :—u They have adopted a reso¬
lution to hold forty official seances, beginning about May
15th next, and continuing* to September 1, omitting'the
j regular summer vacation. They allow twenty of these forty
I sittings to be failures from one cause or another; but if,
i after the course closes, they shall not have found anything
j worthy of scientific notice, they will consider themselves
! absolved from undertaking any further inquiry into the sub-
I ject.”
The St. Petersburg Committee is holding its sittings with
j closed doors, because it naturally desires to keep the publi-
j cation of its results in its own hands. M. Aksakof, that
j most noble of European workers in the cause of Spiritualism,
! has the sympathy of his English brethren in the arduous
j work he has undertaken, for it is an anxious position to en-
j deavour to present to critical observers, phenomena which
j are of an essentially fugitive nature when attempted to be
j obtained under adverse circumstances from third - rate
I mediums.
TERMINATION OP THE ST. PETERSBURG- INQUIRY.
Since the foregoing article was written, we have received
! a letter from M. Aksakof saying that after the phenomena
I began to come, the bad faith of the University Committee
was also manifested, and this to such an extent that after
four seances the representatives of Spiritualism present re¬
fused to have anything more to do with them. He further
says that the reasons for the rupture with the committee
I will be published in extenso. We have telegraphed to him
j for further particulars.
As this is the result we have prophesied all along, guided
by precedents most humiliating to orthodox men of science,
i the soundness of the advice we gave as to the best method
182 * THE SPIRIT
of dealing with the committee in. the first instance will not jj
now be questioned. It would have been well had it been . ]i
acted upon. , , jj
MATERIALISM AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM. jj
BY ST. GEORGE W. STOCK, M.A. jl
(Conclusion.') i (
Materialism consists, not in confounding mind with i
matter, which no one in his senses ever does, but in assert- j
ing that mind does not and cannot exist apart from matter, j
According to the materialist, mind is a mere result of struc- j
ture. It is not a substance, but an attribute—not a thing, j!
but a quality of a thing. As an instrument constructed by j
human skill quivers into melody under the artist’s touch, so j
the human organism gives forth the music—harsh or sweet jl
—of consciousness, when played upon by the cosmic forces; j'
and as / !
“ When the lute is broken ]
Sweet tones are remembered not,” [ (
so, when man’s body can no longer perform its work, con- |i
sciousness is necessarily at an end, or survives only by its jj
echo in another’s mind. A subjective immortality is all j
that is possible to us. Thus the materialist is landed in j
belief in annihilation, not directly and by choice, but in- j
directly, as the inevitable result of his theory. And for this j
view of the relation of mind to matter, the materialist j
thinks that he has ample ground in experience. His con- I
viction is “that there is not a single fact on record from j
which we can infer that there is, or can be, anywhere such a j
thing as a disembodied spirit.” * To this the ready reply j
of the Spiritualist is that “we have changed all that.” jj
But our object now is not to combat but to examine ma- j
terialism. jj
Mind, as we have just said, is not identified by the j
materialist with matter. The lute is one thing, and its jj
music another. What then is mind as viewed apart from jj
the substance in which it coheres, or the instrument through jj
which it is manifested? “ Feeling,” is the obvious answer ; jj
“a series of states of consciousness.” This is the form jj
under which our own minds are known to us. Now, to hold j j
that the mind survives the body would, on the materialist’s j
view, be tantamount to saying that attribute can exist apart jj
from substance—an absurdity which condemns itself. His j
opponent, therefore, is driven to maintain that there is no j
necessary and inalienable connection between mind and the I
human body; that the latter is in fact a mere accidental j j
accompaniment of the former, and not the thing on which jj
it depends. The bodily structure is on this view a mere jj
instrument for the use of mind; and, though the tune dies jj
with the instrument, the performer only ceases to be heard. I
Before going further it may be well to make clear the j
sense in which the word “ feeling” is here used. It is to jj
be understood in the wide sense impressed upon it by John jj
Stuart Mill, as embracing'all the phenomena of conscious- j
ness. There are only two ways in which we become ac- jj
quainted with existence—from without and from within, jj
Without, all is matter; within, all is feeling. It is only jj
through the medium of matter that man’s existence, known jj
to himself from within, can become manifest to others. jj
But is it indeed possible to conceive of feeling, that is to jj
say, of a series of impressions, or states of consciousness, as jj
existing in and by themselves ? The very words cry out jj
against the notion. A feeling implies something that feels, jj
an impression must have something to receive it, there must jj
be something that is in a state of consciousness. These, jj
after all, are only names of attributes—words used to denote !j
modifications of some underlying reality. It seems, there- jj
fore, that we must so far agree with the materialist, and jj
pronounce mind or feeling to be an attribute of some sub- jj
stance. Of what nature then is this substance ? Either it jj
must be like other things or not. Now, the other substances jj
we are acquainted with are material. Just at this point, jj
however, modern Spiritualism steps in, and points us to a jj
new substance, not exactly matter, but analogous to matter, jj
a something more subtle, more attenuated, but still suscep- jj
* The quotation ia from Mr. Charles Bray, of Coventry, a writer whose
views ob psychology are well worth the atteation of Spiritualists,
UALIST. April 21, 1876.
tible of organisation like ordinary matter. But to take up
the position that the soul, being a refined organism, sur¬
vives after death, and thinks, loves, worships as heretofore,
is to occupy the very same ground that the materialist at
present does. All the difficulties of how organisation is
adequate to account for thought and so on, remain unsolved.
This view, then, of the after life can scarcely be pronounced
antagonistic to materialism: it is merely an extension of its
doctrine. If, therefore, it should be proved that there is in
man a more subtle form of matter, the recipient of impres¬
sions, which survives the decay of the body, what need for
the materialist to be overwhelmed with confusion ? He will
merely be surprised to find that his doctrine leads to belief
in a future. Nor let him be considered completely in the
wrong for having imagined that it was the outer and grosser
form of matter which is the true recipient of impressions,
and not rather the inner and more refined. It may be that
they difier only in degree, and that the one is evolved out of
the other, as the kernel out of the nut. If so, there must
have been some period of existence when they were one:
and then the view of the materialist would have needed no
correction.
The dispute between materialists and their antagonists
would not be in the least decided by the triumph of modern
Spiritualism. The real question at issue between the two
parties, is whether organisation is or is not sufficient to
account for sensation, thought, emotion, and will. Granting
the complete establishment of modem Spiritualism, the old
dispute would be liable to rearise. I have seen it stated
somewhere that there are all sects in the spirit-world except
materialists. But the exception is quite unnecessary. There
is room for materialists too. For, admitting the existence
of a spirit-body composed of a finer form of matter which
escapes our present senses, it will still have to be settled
whether this body is itself the thinking substance, or only
the outward expression of some inner and hidden reality.
Those who take the former view will be materialists, and
those who take the latter, Spiritualists, in the strictly philo¬
sophical sense of the term. And be it observed, that if the
substance in which feeling inheres is really an aggregate of
particles, no matter how minute, it is a compound body, and
may therefore be disintegrated, so that it can enjoy at best
only a fortuitous immortality, and is not, by right of its own
nature, eternal. Hence we may well conceive spirits main¬
taining that the disintegration of their spirit-bodies would
result in annihilation.
But if materialism be untenable both in this world and the
next, then we must adopt the other alternative, namely, that
the thinking substance is unlike everything else with which
we are acquainted, being neither matter, nor analogous to
matter. We must regard the thing within us which feels,
loves, thinks, and wills, the true self, as something wholly
mi generis. This is what the common sense of mankind
has done, more or less consciously, all the world over. To
this substratum of consciousness, this inner, unknowable
essence, it would be well to appropriate the term “spirit.”
Spirit then is no rarefied or etherealised form of matter, but
something totally distinct in kind. The unphilosophic mind,
at all events, is never troubled with difficulties as to how
spirit can think, love, worship, and will. And the reason is
obvious. Finding mental phenomena to exist, we invent a
name for the agent which exhibits them, and for that only.
Hence we are not perplexed with instances of the same agent
unpossessed of the attributes in question, which is the diffi¬
culty that meets us when we ascribe consciousness to matter.
On this supposition, spirit is really the antithesis, and not
merely the analogue of matter. We must place it on one
side in our thoughts, and on the other the successive gar¬
ments, whether material or psychical, in which it clothes
itself. There will still be left an inner and an outer when
the weight of flesh has been cast aside.
We are now in a position to estimate the charge brought
against modern Spiritualism of being simply rank material¬
ism. It is true that, admitting the doctrine of a spirit-
body, we have something like the old state of things over
again, with the mere replacement of a coarse instrument by
a fine one. We are not translated into the world of spirit
at death (if by spirit be meant the inner shrine of conscious¬
ness), but merely into a kind of rarefied physical world.
April 21, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. US
Spirits are still concealed within the mysterious recesses of
their own identity. They are not known to one another in
themselves, but through the medium of an external
organism. Nevertheless, the charge of materialism is futile,
since modern Spiritualism neither asserts nor denies any¬
thing with regard to the true nature of being, but leaves it
unknowable as it found it. What it does effect is the substi¬
tution of a possible for an impossible conception of the after
life. We have seen that in our present state man’s existence
is manifested only in two ways to himself, within, as feeling;
to others, without, as matter. If, therefore, we hold that
when the physical body is cast aside at death, no new
organism is assumed in its place, only the interior mode of
manifestation is left, and man reduced to a mere train of
feelings. Each individual soul must thus exist in isolation
from the rest,
“ Eternal, boundless, undecayed,
A thought unseen, yet seeing all.”
All, that is, which retains externality : for its own compeers,
which share its nature, must be alike invisible. From this
vague universality, or vague nothingness, the hypothesis of
modern Spiritualism rescues us. If it had not been forced
upon us, we should have had to seek it: for if we are to
conceive of our own future existence at all, it must be under
the limitations of an organism.
I have said advisedly, “ if we are to conceive: ” for there
is nothing to hinder one believing in the existence of a
purely mental world in which spirit may be cognisable to
spirit immediately, and through no external medium what¬
ever. Such a world, it is true, is utterly unimaginable:
but we have no right to say it cannot exist. That is rash
reasoning which confounds inconceivability with impossi¬
bility. What is inconceivable and absurd to us may seem
natural and inevitable to a being endowed with different
faculties. We cannot be sure that the constitution of our
minds is a reflection of absolute truth. Indeed there is
much to suggest the contrary. But though we may believe
in a future state without accepting the doctrine of a spirit
body, it is no slight benefit to be able to superadd concep¬
tion to belief. To accept as. an article of faith what our
faculties do not enable us to grasp, is but to string words to¬
gether with no mental picture to give them meaning.
This doctrine of a spirit-body—of a quasi-material enve¬
lope underlying the physical organism, and serving as the
vehicle or garb of the spirit on decay of its old covering, is
the great contribution of modern Spiritualism to philosophy.
It has been taught before by individual thinkers, but has
never till now been thoroughly grasped, realised, insisted
upon. In particular it was inculcated by St. Paul, though
not quite in the same shape in which it is propounded by
modern revelation. For he imagined an interval to exist
after the decay of the natural body, before the spirit donned
its new garb. It was not till “ the trumpet should sound ”
that the dead were to be raised incorruptible. As the
seed had to be germinating in the ground before it could
spring into the sunlight beautiful and metamorphosed,
so there was to be an interval between death and resur¬
rection, except in the case of those who were alive at Christ’s
coming, an event which he looked for before his own genera¬
tion had passed away. But the support of reason which
this doctrine enjoys is far more important than that of
authority. For what could be more violently opposed to all
the analogy of Nature’s workings than to suppose that we
shall overleap at one bound the vast chasm that separates
matter from pure spirit, even supposing the latter to be
capable of existing at all apart from the former ?
It may well be that even the spirit-body itself may at
some period be disintegrated, another death undergone, and
a still more etherealised organism developed out of the old
one. In our present state it is only by the intervention of
a physical organism that we become aware of the existence
of any spirit except our own. Spirit speaks to spirit through
the medium of matter. Would we communicate our
thoughts, we set the air in motion, or inscribe marks upon
paper. How far the mode of communication may be altered
in the next state, it would be hazardous to seek to deter¬
mine. But there seems no significance in the doctrine of a
spirit-body, unless it is to be used for somewhat the same
purposes as the material. The interchange of ideas will no
| doubt be more expeditious, but not independent of all ex-
| | ternal signs, and the knowledge by spirits of each other still
I | only mediate, so that poor Charles Lamb’s disquietude may
| j have been in vain. “ Shall I enjoy friendships there, want-
i | ing the smiling indications which point me to them here,
fll the recognisable face, the sweet assurance of a look? ” We
| I may remark in passing that Spiritualists would do well to
|, | define the word intuition, which they make use of so freely.
| I Intuition on their premises is perception through the
[|| spiritual senses, not perception without any senses at all.
Such then is the doctrine of modern Spiritualism—a life
fj| to come, the analogue of the life that now is—a spirit-body,
| | having substance and shape equally with the physical, but a
I I substance so refined as to be impalpable to our present
| | senses. It would lead us into deeper waters than we can
| | now sail on to inquire how far these views would be modi-
I I fied by the adoption of Berkeley’s theory of existence, to
| | which recent psychological discoveries seem to lend such
I I startling support. We must here, therefore, conclude by
| | summarising the results of this paper. On the one hand
| | it is evident that modern Spiritualism is not materialistic,
||j since it does not attack or degrade the nature of spirit con-
II sidered in itself, but leaves it precisely as it found it, having,
j j in fact, no light to throw upon that question. On the other
ijj hand it is equally evident that materialism (or the theory
! I that existence is the product of organisation) so far from
l | being crushed out by the new doctrine, is only given new
I I worlds to range in. As there will always be an outer and an
l|| inner, the one revealed and the other hidden, so it will
| | always be possible to maintain that the outer is the only
I I reality, and the supposed existence of the inner a mere delu-
| | sion. The materialist in our present world looks without
I I him and denies the existence of what others find within;
| | and precisely the same dispute may arise on every succes-
| | sive plane of existence, since the real question at issue is not
j merely between matter, as we now understand that term,
| | and spirit; but between the outer and the inner, between
I I the mere external organism, whether physical or psychical,
| | and a something unorganised, inaccessible, unknowable, the
I j spark of Deity within us, the breath of the Most High God.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW MANIFESTATIONS.
I | Now that the subject of the development of new spiritual
| | manifestations has been raised, it may be interesting to
1 I those who intend to take action in the matter to know that
| J a medium who does not obtain a particular kind of manifes-
m tation in its incipient stage, can usually obtain it by holding
| | a seance 'with, another medium who obtains the desired phe-
| l nomenon. Many a time have we introduced physical
| | mediums to each other, with the result that after their first
| | stance together each has carried away the power of obtaining
I i for the first time some of the manifestations of the other.
| | When one medium thus becomes the recipient of a new kind
l | of manifestation, it is not of course produced at the outset
| | with the same rapidity and power as in the presence of the
j medium through whom the spirits had had longer practice.
| | If two mediums have entirely different kinds of mediumship,
I I one being, say, a strong physical medium, and the other
| | possessing high-class trance powers, the one does not usually
| I after a seance with the other carry away the power of
j|j evolving any of the manifestations. There must, in the
| l first instance, be some similarity of power. We have
I I known a medium who had obtained table motions for
I I months, but not raps, to get raps on sitting at home for the
| | first time, after having a few days previously had a seance
Ijl with a strong rapping medium. We have known a physical
| | medium who did not obtain spirit hands, to get them at the
| | next sitting at home, after a seance with a medium in whose
| | presence such hands were commonly produced, and instances
| | of this kind might be multiplied. On one occasion only
[| have we seen some of the higher manifestations thus carried
I j away, and produced through a-physical medium. One night,
I i at the house of Mr. Luxmoore, Mrs. Tappan placed her hand
| | upon the head of Miss Florence Cook, and in the , trance
| l uttered an inspirational poem. At the next seance after-
| | wards, at the house of Miss Cook’s parents, Mr. Tapp was
| | present, and he informed us that the medium rose in a
trance, and uttered an inspirational poem of considerable
184
THE S PI ft I TIT Ati I ST. April 21, 1876.
force and beauty. There were long pauses between some of !
the lines and some of the words. The lines did not eome [I
with the same fluency with which they would have been |
uttered through the lips of Mrs. Tappan. Although this j
would at first'sight appear to be an example of two dis- |
similar classes of mediumship having a somewhat strong |
influence upon each other, it should be remembered that |
Miss Cook had naturally considerable intellectual power, j
and side by side with physical manifestations exhibited the i
higher phenomena of trance and clairvoyance. !
When one medium thus carries away some of the mani- !
festations of the other, their guardian spirits usually profess |
to be the same as before; that is to say, none of the spirits |
of the one medium seem to gain any great control over the !
other sensitive. Sometimes they say that a few of the lower |
spirits of the band of the one medium have come to work i
in connection with the band of the new one, but not in any !
authoritative position. On one occasion,, when two noted |
physical mediums met for the first time, and manifestations !)
had been obtained through the mediumship of one of them, !
the controlling spirit of the other said to us afterwards in |
effect:—“ I was watching how his spirits did the manifesta- j
tions, and picked up a great deal of information; but I took !
very good care not to let them know how we did ours.” |
This will be seen to be an exceedingly mean and selfish re- |
mark; whether the spirit message could be relied upon or |
not, it accurately represented the feeling which existed I
between the two mediums in question. - i
A medium who can get good manifestations in daylight is |
much wanted in the movement, and the spirits instead of !
doing many manifestations badly, should do one well. If |
the spirits would manage at every seance to raise any object !
a foot off the table, and hold it there for a minute before I
putting it down again, that one thing would establish the j
fame of the medium, and be better than dozens of inconclu- j
sive manifestations. It would be a good thing also to de- j
velope the power which spirits have sometimes exhibited, of j
carrying small objects between two circles meeting in far |
distant places. In the American Spiritual press it has been |
said that the spirits have tightly tied up mediums inside n i
cabinet, while the two ends of the rope have been held out- i
side the cabinet, yet the knots have been secure and intricate. !
This might be tried here. An attempt might also be made i
to get direct spirit writing on a piece of paper inside a care- !
fully sealed and secured envelope, a manifestation which is I
said to have been obtained in Australia.
INFOKMATION FOR AMERICAN MEDIUMS.
American mediums who come to England are frequently j
disappointed upon their arrival, in consequence of their i
having selected the months of July or August to cross the
Atlantic ; when they reach London they find limited demand 11
for their services, because most of the Spiritualists who can |
best afford to engage them are then out of town, and do not |
return till November or later. The best time for mediums I
to take up temporary residence in London is from the i
beginning of February until the middle of June. Second- j
rate mediumship, either trance or physical, is not much in |
demand, and as a general rule does not pay. Mediums who i
obtain a few inexplicable manifestations with certainty, in i
the face of the most adverse influences, get on best, and j
they ought to have gained an established reputation for such i
manifestations before coming here. Letters of introduction I
from such men as Mr. Epes Sargent, Dr. Crowell, or Mr. |
Dale Owen are useful. American mediums who come to I
London will find among Spiritualists parties and sections, j
which are not necessarily unfriendly to each other, but from |
which mediums do well to keep clear by setting up inde- j
pendently for themselves, without seeking patronage ; they j
should leave their manifestations to force their own way. I
English society differs someAvhat from American society; j
there is seldom any sudden rush after a new medium, and it !
takes time to get a good connection among Spiritualists in i
London. ‘ ' ^ if
M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, subscribed £lo to the Harrison
Testimonial Fund last week.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Mr. Washington A. Danskin, of Baltimore, has fixed a lettered dial
with movable hand, to a table, so that the height of the rise of one
edge of the table will cause the hand to point to any particular letter
desired. With this apparatus messages are spelt out through the
mediumship of his wife. ' He writes to The Banner of Light:—
While I was leaning over the table one afternoon, completely ab¬
sorbed in watching the movement of the index and transmitting to
paper the letters as they were pointed out, I was suddenly seized, as
it were, by an irresistible power that braced up my shoulders and
held me straight, as if I had been in the hands of the drill sergeant.
So rigid was I that I could scarcely command voice enough to call
the letters as they were indicated. Recovering somewhat from my
surprise, and catching breath enough for the purpose, I asked—“ What
does this mean ? Who is it that holds me thus ?”
The answer was spelt slowly on the dial, “ Flower of the Field.” I
replied, “ I am no wiser now than before. Who is * Flower of the Field ?’ ”
Then came, “ The Indian boy who lived with you and loved you when
in Florida.” As. a test this was perfect on all points. When in my
sixteenth year I was pronounced very far gone in consumption; and
having a decided objection to both physic and physicians, I declined the
course of medical treatment proposed in my case, and started off for the
wilds of Florida. There I made friends of the Seminole Indians, and
lived, for nearly a twelvemonth, as they lived, frequently without
shelter, and generally dependent for our food upon the woods and the
streams. During this term a strong attachment was formed between an
Indian boy of about my own age and myself. To him was I indebted
for a knowledge of the Indian language, for many a useful lesson in
woodcraft, and he helped me to pass many a pleasant hour while thus
an exile from my home and friends. But twenty-five years or more had
intervened; the incidents of home-life and the associations of civilised
society had, in a great degree, obliterated the recollection of these
earlier days. The Indian boy had been forgotten until he thus sud¬
denly and forcibly placed himself before me. No one present but
myself knew that this boy had ever lived, and to my memory he
had long been lost. To me, therefore, this was a test about which
there could be no misunderstanding.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—At a special meeting of the Council, held at 38, Great Russell-
street, on Tuesday afternoon, April 11th, the following members were
present: Mr. A. Calder, Mr. M. Theobald, Mr. W. D. Meers, Mr. T.
Everitt, Mr. J. Freeman, Mrs. FitzGerald, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
Mr. Desmond FitzGerald, Mrs. D. FitzGerald, Mr. George King, Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers, Mrs. E. D. Rogers, Mrs. Everitt, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. H. Wedgwood, Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. A. Joy,
Mr. H. D. Jencken and Mrs. Wood.
The meeting was convened in accordance with a requisition signed by
Mr. Desmond FitzGerald and other members of the Council, 1st, “ To
reconsider the resolution carried at the last ordinary meeting of the
Council on March 14th, adopting the recommendations of the Offices
Committee in relation to the room on the premises of the Association
which, in accordance with a previous resolution of the Council, is
occupied by Mr. Harrison, part of such recommendation being that Mr.
Harrison shall not, after a certain date, to be mutually determined on,
use the address 38, Great Russell-street, as a publishing address;
2nd, To approve the agreement as settled by the Finance Committee for
renting a room at 38, Great Russell-street, to Mr. Harrison.”
Mr. Rogers moved that as the readiest mode of arriving at an
amicable settlement of the question of Mr. Harrison’s tenancy of his
room, two members from the Finance and Ofl^ces Committees retire to
consider the agreement drawn up by the first-named committee. This
course was thereupon adopted, and on their return the agreement was
read by the chairman and unanimously approved. It was then recom¬
mended that the said agreement be referred to the ordinary meeting of
Council for adoption. The first motion on the requisition was therefore
dropped.
Mr. Everitt said that he was extremely sorry for any personal an¬
noyance that had been caused to Mr. Harrison in this matter ; he had
acted from a sense of duty, but he would hereby withdraw any expres¬
sions of his that might have given pain.
Mr. Morell Theobald then moved the following resolution :—“ That
all ex parte statements, addressed to members of the Council, except at
meetings in Council assembled, have the disapproval of this meeting.”
This was carried, there being but three dissentient votes.
The meeting then adjourned.
At the ordinary meeting, held at 6.30 the same evening, twelve new
members were elected, amongst whom were Mr. T. P. Barkas and Mr
J. Mould, of Newcastle, and Mr. Theophilus Taunton and Mr. W. G.
Taunton, of Anerley.
It was resolved to invite Dr. Puel, of Paris, to become an honorary
member of. the Association.
There was one resignation.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the Finance Committee,
showing a balance in hand of ,£129 Os. lOd.; bills passed for payment,
£84; liabilities, £5. It recommended that Mr. Bennett be requested
to call in the second year’s contributions to the Guarantee Fund.
The report was adopted.
The Finance Committee then presented the agreement drawn up by
April 21, 1876.
THE spiritualist.
185
them with Mr. Harrison, which provides that Mr. Harrison shall rent
the small room now in his possession at 38, Great Russell-street for
one year only, under certain specified conditions, and that “ the said
tenant agrees to insert his own name in all his advertisements in which
the address of 38, Great Russell-street appears, and to conduct all his
business transactions, as editor or bookseller, on the said premises, in
such a manner that neither The Spiritualist, nor any other newspaper
or publication of any kind, shall appear to he connected in any way
with the British National Association of Spiritualists, and the said
tenant will act in good faith, so that the public may understand there is
no connection between them.”
The agreement was carried unanimously.
The Provincial Committee reported that Dr. Sexton was engaged on
a course of lectures in the North of 'England, under the auspices of the
Association, and that the same lecturer would deliver a second course
during the month of May in the Lancashire or Yorkshire districts. A
circular of appeal for further aid in this matter, prepared by the Com¬
mittee, will shortly be issued.
The arrangements for the annual meeting of the members of the
Association were discussed, and the date fixed for the 23rd May. The
names of the twenty-six members to retire from the Council this year
were decided by lot, and registered for insertion in the circular and
voting papers to be sent to each member of the Association previous to
the elections at the annual meeting.
Mr. George King gave notice that he should move for the appoint¬
ment of an Experimental Research Committee, with the use of apparatus
on the premises of the National Association, and mentioned that the
subject would receive some attention at the next discussion meeting,
Monday, April 24th, when it was expected that Mr. Cromwell Yarley
would take the chair and open the discussion.
Mr. Bennett’s motion for holding a conference in the provinces
during the summer was deferred to the annual meeting.
E. Kislingbury, Secretary to the B. N. A. S.
iProbtnctal Jictoa.
MALTON.
IS SPIRITUALISM A DELUSION, AN IMPOSITION, OR A TRUTH ?
Spiritualism is a subject which finds many supporters in Malton,
and these must have been highly pleased with the able lecture delivered
in the Institute on Wednesday night (last week), under the auspices
of the National Association of Spiritualism, by Dr, Geo. Sexton,
M.A., F.Z.S., who is well-known to many here. There was a very
large and intelligent audience present, and they frequently testified
their appreciation of the manner in which the lecturer dealt with his
subject.
The Rev. J. Sutcliffe, the newly-appointed Unitarian minister in
Malton, took the chair, and in announcing the subject of the lecture to
be delivered as that of “ The Claims of Modern Spiritualism upon
Public Attention,” he expressed the pleasure he had in presiding over
the meeting, and in having the opportunity of hearing so able a man as
Dr. Sexton. He knew that whatever subject the Doctor took up would
be handled with ability, and those who listened would not fail to be
impressed therewith. The speaker went on to state that he looked
upon Spiritualism as one of the dispensations of Divine providence.
He did not think there was ever a period in the history of mankind
when the Great Father in heaven did not in some way and in some
degree make known to the mind of man such revelations as He knew
would be best suited to the moral and spiritual condition of His rational
offspring, and to adapt them in the way constituted to minister to their
best interests. Whatever the moral stage arrived at, or whatever the
stage of civilisation, those dispensations were so arranged as to minister
to the welfare of God’s creatures ; but we were by no ways justified in
supposing any principle, form, or expression of the religious sentiment
in man is permanent. They would change as we changed. Modern
Spiritualism, the speaker believed, was one of those things God was
now making use of for the good of a great number of His children ;
and he proceeded to show how it had affected the minds and changed
the opinions of those previously unimpressed by all other evidences of
the truth of the existence of a God and of the immortality of the soul.
This he adduced as a proof of the truth of Spiritualism, an evidence
that it contained something worthy of our time and attention ; and he
concluded his remarks by urging us to cherish a mind that should be
open to conviction and willing to investigate into the subject to be
brought before us. •
Dr. Sexton then commenced his lecture, remarking that the subject
of Spiritualism was one that had of late been considerably advanced
and largely discussed by thinking people. A few years ago it was
looked upon as being too contemptible to need notice, but it had spread,
and intelligent people connected with science had embraced its
principles, and had thus given it a position and a claim on public atten-
tention—a claim which he held had been fully substantiated to the
present time. After proving this assertion by referring to the number
and character of those who had of late years embraced the doctrines of
Spiritualism, the doctor proceeded to put forth three assumptions with
regard to it:—Either that it was a great imposition, a gigantic delusion,
or a great and mighty truth. We could invent no other supposition
with regard to it, and it must, therefore, come under one of these
heads. The supposition that it was an entire imposition was very
rarely entertained in the present day, and he would not therefore take
up much of our time in endeavouring to refute it. Supposing it were
true, we should have the fact that all Spiritualists were divided into two
classes—knaves and fools. There, then, we should have an ordinary
law which obtained with regard to impositions generally—one half,
who were the impostors, were knaves, or clever people, whilst those
imposed upon were the fools. Now in Spiritualism, we had the reverse
of this ; it was the clever people who were imposed upon and the im-
posers were generally ignorant men and women, and sometimes even
children. In illustration of this, the lecturer proceeded to quote many
eminent men who have embraced Spiritualism, naming amongst others
Mr. Robert Owen, his son Mr. Dale Owen, Dr. Chalmers, Mr. Wallace,
the naturalist, Mr. Varley, the eminent electrician, &c.; whilst on the
other hand he showed that the spirit mediums were bften children of
seven or eight years of age. To say that those could perform con¬
juring tricks more wonderful than all other conjurers, presented a
problem more difficult to solve than Spiritualism itself. The doctor
next dealt with the second assumption—that Spiritualism is a gigantic
delusion, and in passing ridiculed Dr. Carpenter’s notion that it was a
“ mental epidemic,” and as such spread from one person to another like
epidemics of a bodily character. This, he held, was not explaining the
matter at all, and was treating it in an unscientific and non-practical
manner. That Spiritualism is a great and mighty truth was the point
next dealt with by the lecturer. He did not say that it was all this,
but it might be ; and if that were true we ought to investigate the sub¬
ject thoroughly before passing an opinion upon it, because he strongly
objected to persons giving an opinion when they knew nothing what¬
ever of the question. He would accept no one’s theory in explanation
who had not thoroughly considered the subject—who had not seen the
facts ; because otherwise they were not in a position to pass an opinion
upon the question. Spiritualists had seen those facts, and were
therefore best able to judge of them. Having dealt with the three
assumptions he first put forth, the lecturer then proceeded to speak
upon what is claimed for Spiritualism. It put forth tremendous claims,
and it was therefore necessary that they should be closely examined by
those who professed to be searchers after the truth. Spiritualism claimed
to have solved the greatest problem of the age—the question whether
man lives again or not. Spiritualism claimed to have solved that by
the very evidence which scientific men were looking for; and if it was
true, that man was immortal, was it npt of the utmost importance
that he should know it? In the course of his remarks under this
head, secularism came in for its share of admirable comment, which
was entirely antagonistic to its principles and the lecturer’s former con¬
victions thereupon, he stating that for twenty years he was doubting
the existence of a God. He showed that secularism was the direct
negation of sound philosophy and reason, and he spoke emphatically
of the atheistic spirit that pervaded modern philosophy, and said that
scepticism and doubt were more than ever the spirit of the present age.
We could not, he said, if we would, shut our eyes to the importance of
the question of the immortality of the soul. At times in the crush of busi¬
ness and the hurry of life we might forget it, but there were moments
of quietude and stillness in our homes, or when the soul was sad and
sorrow crushed us down, and then would arise in our minds the im¬
portant questions “ What am I ? Whence came I ? And Whither am
I going ?” Spiritualism claimed to be able to solve all this; it had
come to restore the faith that would elevate men’s minds, to teach the
existence of an hereafter and of a God presiding over it. It would
bring the scientific world back to the course from which it had de¬
parted ; would show us what was our position in this and other respects,
and he thought it ought not to be said to be in opposition to religion,
but rather the greatest handmaid religion ever had in the world.
Mr. R. H. Bartliffi said “ that they had heard about the theory, but
what about the practice ? ” and desired to know if in America and
England there had not been many exposures with regard to “ those
affairs ? ” Had not Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke and others done
things that the Spiritualists did ? and were not Spiritualists sometimes
misled by their own mediums ? Mr. Bartliff went on to refer to the
sensational expose in the Katie King affair, in America.
Dr. Sexton said, that so far as he understood Mr. Bartliff, he had put
two questions—Had there not been impostors ? and, had not conjurers
done the same things as Spiritualists had done ? He (the speaker)
very much regretted to say that there had been impostors, but when¬
ever they found anything of the kind they exposed the imposition as
fast as they could. That, however, did not prove that Spiritualism was
false, no more than the fact that the existence of counterfeit sovereigns
proved that none were good. We should always find impostors in
everything, and doubtless there was a great deal passing under the
name of Spiritualism which was nothing of the kind ; but he was doing
his best to expose it, and whenever he found out any case he would
publish it throughout the length and breadth of the land. With regard
to the second question—Had not conjurers done things Spiritualists
had done ?—he said, No, nor nothing like them! He then proceeded
to refer to the tricks practised by Maskelyne and Cooke, and said that
Mr. Bartliff could not be aware of the manner in which he (the doctor)
had exposed them three years ago, or he would not have asked the
question. He did that at great expense to himself, and showed how
every trick was done by the conjurers named ; and expressed his con¬
viction that he could do every trick practised by any conjuror of the
day. The doctor also stated that a Mr. Joy had offered £1,000 to any
conjurer who would do, under the same conditions, the things a spirit
medium would do, and he gave an account of an application made by
a foreigner, who was soon settled when the conditions were told him.
After this a vote of thanks was passsed to the lecturer and anothsr
to the chairman, and after each gentleman had briefly replied, the pro¬
ceedings terminated.— The Malton Gazette.
NEWCASTLE-0 N-TYNE.
Mrs. Petty’s services are in great demand. She is giving special
seances every day to different investigators.
Miss Fairlamb’s mediumship still gives satisfactory results. On
i$6 « TliE SPiRlf UALIS1 April 21, 1876.
Thursday evening last week, while she was sitting in a subdued light
outside the cabinet, instruments were played inside and various things
passed out into the circle. Other phenomena occurred. The medium
was in her normal state, talking with the sitters, and visible to all as
she sat in front of the cabinet.
Mr. Morse gave two addresses in the Freemasons’ Old Hall, on
Easter Sunday, to good audiences, Mr. Armstrong taking the chair
in the afternoon, and Mr. T. P. Parkas in the evening. The subject in
the evening was “ Matter and Spirit.”
In a recent discourse in Newcastle Mr. Morse defined “ elementary
spirits ” as “ a class of beings who may fitly be described as wearing
the livery of heaven to serve the Devil with,”
B L Y T H.
Spiritualism has not long been planted in this town, but is quietly
making headway. It is quite a centre for Methodism, and at Dr.
Sexton’s lecture there on Thursday evening last week, several of the
leading preachers of the town were among the audience with theiropen
bibles, following the lecturer, text for text. His subject was
“ Spiritualism in harmony with the Bible.” The audience numbered
about a hundred persons, and the meeting was presided over by Mr. T.
Foster, of Seghill. The Central Hall, which is rather a fine building,
capable of seating several hundred persons, was the place provided for
the lecture, and the attendance might have been larger if it had not been
the eve of Good Friday. No questions were asked at the close of the
address.
SEGHILL.
At this place, which is a mining district a few miles from Blyth,
Spiritualism is rather at a standstill, but circles are held regularly at
one or two places, one being at the house of Mr. Nicholson, who is
himself a medium. On Wednesday evening, the 12th, Dr. Sexton
lectured at Seghill, in the Boys’ School-room, under the auspices of the
British National Association of Spiritualists. The subject was ‘‘The
alleged Phenomena of Spiritualism, are they true, and if so do they
prove the continued Existence of Man after Death ?” The lecture was
moderately well attended. Mr. T. Foster, who is a very earnest
Spiritualist, and was some time ago excluded from the Methodists for
his connection with Spiritualism, was very energetic in his endeavour
to render Dr. Sexton every assistance in his power.
SOUTH SHIELDS. j j
Spiritualism here, as well as in North Shields, is making some pro- nj
gress, though great opposition is ofEered to it. Mr. Latnbelle, of 43, j !
Palmerston-street, holds 'circles regularly; his mediumship is im-
proving, and he is earnest in the matter; he is a writing as well as a jjj
trance medium, and is now the instrument in writing some historical |(j
essays by one of his controls, who gives the name of “ Francis Bacon.” m
On the evening of the 9th inst., in addition to the usual members of the ;> j
circle there were present, Mr. Hobson, of North Shields ; Mr. and Miss |( j
Raper, of Jarrow ; Mr. and Mrs. Petty and Mr. Joseph Petty, jun., also |)|
Mr. and Mrs. Rhodes, of Newcastle ; altogether about twenty assembled. |}|
Mr. Robertson acted as chairman, and when the medium was controlled jj i
read out the various questions that different members of the circle ijj
wished answered in regard to former utterances of the medium. These jjj
were readily replied to, and in some cases minutely. There were j) j
various controlling spirits purporting to be Francis Bacon, William j j j
Prynne, Oliver Cromwell, Mrs. Robertson (tlie late wife of the chair- jjj
man), and the medium’s grandfather. jil
CHESTER-LE-STREET.
The earnestness of the Spiritualists in this district has for some time
past induced the preachers in the various chapels to denounce the sub¬
ject of Spiritualism as satanic ; to counteract this they took advantage
of Dr. Sexton’s presence in the north, and under the auspices of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, a lecture was given by
him in the Co-operative Hall, subject, “ Spiritualism in Harmony with
the Bible.” There was an audience consisting chiefly of non-
Spiritualists, numbering between two and three hundred persons, all
very attentive. They frequently applauded the lecturer, who
endeavoured to show the similarity between modern spiritual manifesta¬
tions and those in the Bible, setting forth also that there was no state¬
ment whatever in the New Testament that spiritual manifestations
■were to cease with the Apostles. The contrary was the case, and to
prove that they did not cease, he quoted many instances among the
fathers of the Christian Church during the first five centuries. He
then passed through the time of the Reformation, instancing Martin
Luther, Baxter, Bunyan, Wesley and others, all of whom were
Spiritualists ; he said that if the Church had departed from the faith,
and had merged into rationalism, and had lost its spiritual gifts, God
had done what has been done before—sent these spiritual manifesta¬
tions outside the Church. At the close of the address permission was
given to ask questions, butnone being forthcoming Mr. Rhodes, who occu¬
pied the chair, called for a show of hands from those who were satisfied
with the address, and there was a unanimous response. As Dr. Sexton
was leaving, many crowded round him with their congratulations. Mr.
W. H. Robinson, Mr. Batey, jun., and Mr. F. Wilson were energetic
in rendering the meeting a success, and these gentlemen were aided by
their friends, Mr. Pigford, the trance medium, and Mr. Wilson, sen., of
Fatfield, who is a preacher, and has been expelled from his church for
his Spiritualistic convictions.
ANOTHER SAD CASE IN LIVERPOOL.
The following sad case of stabbing while under the influence of drink
is quoted from last Monday’s Liverpool Courier. The Mr. Coates
mentioned is the same who has spoken frequently at Spiritualistic
meetings in London and elsewhere; he is an intelligent, delicate, hand¬
some young man, holding a situation in the Customs, and is one of the
last who would be expected to be seen in his present position:—
An occurrence of a somewhat tragic nature took place in Liverpool yesterday,
and the affair has a peculiar aspect, from the fact that both the actors are of
considerable celebrity in Sph’itualistic circles. The details, so far as we have
been able to ascertain, are as follows:—About five o’clock yesterday afternoon
the attention of passers-by in West Derby-road, opposite the Necropolis, was
attracted by the appearance of a man running out of Walker-street minus his
hat, and apparently having been in a struggle. The man, who was carrying
the remains of a broken walking-stick, reeled as he reached the end of the
street, and ejaculated, “ I’m stabbed! ” He was taken hold of by some persons
who were near, and a police-officer appearing on the scene, and having spoken
to the injured man, turned up Walker-street, and there arrested another man
who was alleged to be the assailant. Both men were taken to the Prescot-street
Bridewell, when it there transpired that the one first referred to was suffering
from wounds Inflicted by some sharp instrument, and was very faint from loss
of blood. A car was at once procured, and he was taken to the Royal Infirmary,
where, upon examination of his injuries, it was discovered that he had sustained
a severe and dangerous wound in the lower part of the back, narrowly missing
the spine. Another wound of a less serious character was found on his thigh.
The wounds were of such a nature that he was advised to remain in the insti¬
tution, but he insisted on being taken home, and, after having his injuries
temporarily attended to, he was removed home. The man who was charged
with having inflicted the injuries was detained at the Bridewell, and on further
inquiries it was elicited that his name is James Coates, a customs officer,
residing at 74, Queen’s-road. The wounded man is named Walter Isaacs, who
gave his address as 71, Rishton-street, Breckfield-road, the place to which ho
was removed. It would appear that the parties werebn very intimate terms,
and that Isaacs really resided with Coates, the address he gave, and to which
he was taken, being that of his mother. For some time past the two men have
been prominent members of the Spiritualistic body in Liverpool. About twelve
months ago Coates set up what is termed a “ Psychopathic Institute ” in West
Derby-road, the process of healing certain ailments being performed, as was
pretended, through spirit agency. For this purpose mediums were required,
and one of these was Isaacs, and another the wife of Coates. Matters prospered
so well in the healing business that the “ institute ” was removed to the house
in Queen’s-road mentioned. Here Isaacs continued to live for a time as one of
the resident medicae, Coates following his avocation of customs officer, and
filling up his leisure time as a lecturing medium. All went well, apparently,
until yesterday afternoon, when Mrs. Coates and Isaacs attended the usual
meeting of the Psychological Society, at the Islington Assembly Rooms, to hear
an address on “ The Resurrection.” Coates, who had been on duty during
the day, arrived at the rooms towards the close of the meeting; and it was
then noticed that he was under the influence of drink. Accompanied by a
number of friends the three proceeded up towards West Derby-road; and on
getting near the Necropolis, Coates, who seemed to be in a sullen and quarrel¬
some mood, sat down on the cattle watering-trough, the rest of the party, with
the exception of Isaacs, walking up West Derby-road. He (Isaacs) took hold
of Coates, with the apparent object of inducing him to go home; but Coates,
for some reason or other, obstinately refused, and crossed over into Walker-
street, whither he was followed by Isaacs. They went some distance up the
street, and what transpired thereafter is not distinctly stated. There would
appear, however, to have been an angry altei'cation, followed by a rather
desperate struggle between the two men. A heavy oak walking-stick which
Isaacs carried was broken, and the clothes of both were covered with dirt, as
if they had been rolling on the ground. Coates seems to have taken out a
common large-bladed pocket-knife, which he was known to have been in pos¬
session of, and with this, it is said, he inflicted the wounds found upon Isaacs.
Coates, himself, in the course of the struggle received a cut on the hand which
bled freely, but otherwise was uninjured. When taken to the Bridewell he
was still under the influence of liquor; and from statements he made it would
appear that his enmity against Isaacs arose from a jealous feeling regarding
Mrs. Coates and the man Isaacs.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—On Thursday evening last week the usual
monthly session of the council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism was held at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, Mr. John
Rouse in the chair. The minutes of the last meeting were read and
confirmed. Letters of general interest, received since, were read from
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten; Miss Anna Blackwell; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. Edwin Dottridge (who sent a musical box for the tem¬
porary use of the association); and Messrs. G. F. Tilby and W. C.
Drake, secretaries to the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, soliciting aid in furnishing their hall. The following
presents, received since the last meeting, were laid upon the table, and
accepted with a cordial vote of thanks to the several donors, viz.;—
Vital Magnetic Cure, and A Guide to Spiritualism, from Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; The Spirits' Book, forwarded at the request of the associa¬
tion by the translator, Miss Anna Blackwell; Old Truths in a New
Light, and Through the Ages (3 vols.), from the Countess of Caithness.
Messrs. John Plassford, F.C.S., and Arthur Vaughan, were elected
ordinary members. It was unanimously agreed to engage the services
of Mr. J. J. Morse for a trance address on the last Thursday evening in
May next. Arrangements were reported and approved for a seance on
Friday evening, the 2lst inst., for which a limited number of tickets
will be issued. A proposal to engage the services of Mr. W. Eglinton
for a special seance was deferred. Attention having been directed to
the question of conditions at seances, it was unanimously resolved, on
the motion of Mr. Thos. Blyton, seconded by Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen:
“ That at all dark or cabinet seances of the association, such conditions
be observed as, in the opinion of the members assembled thereat, shall
be deemed proper and sufficient to guarantee the genuineness of any
manifestations which may be obtained ; and that only such seances be
recorded at which such conditions are enforced."
THE SPIEITTJALIST.
187
April 21, 1876.
THE FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS OF THE NATIONAL m fitable knowledge, and to draw profitable conclusions. To
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. Ijj make a seance a religious meeting would be the most disas-
At the usual fortnightly meeting of the members of the j j trous of steps if harmony be essential to powerful and trust-
National Association of Spiritualists, to be held at 38, Great j j j worthy communications; for theology holds more casus belli
Russell-street, at 7.30 p.m. on Monday next, Mr. Cromwell ! i within its many-chequered field than ever cropped up in our
Varley, F.R.S., will preside, and will open the discussion ! j disputes between the Roses, or during the Thirty Years’War,
on Mr. Harrison’s recent paper on u Original Research in jj! or the modern Eastern question: no hatred comes near in
Spiritualism.” As the debate may lead to practical results, j j bitterness to that of theologians. Here Mr. Yarley steps in
and as the closed experiments at St. Petersburg, as well as j j with words of wisdom; our modes of thinking, he says, are
the relation of Spiritualism to the scientific world in general, j j as diverse as our physical bodies ; so that some will take hold
may come under consideration, a full meeting is expected. j j of Spiritualism as a religion, others as an exhibition of
j j natural phenomena. Seeing that such is the case, would
JOCULAR AND RELIGIOUS SEANCES. j j
BY J. M. GULLY, 1T.D. fa iU
I cannot refrain from offering a few remarks on the dis- jjj
cussion which took place at the ordinary fortnightly meet- j(j
ing of the National Association of Spiritualists on the 10th jjj
April, initiated by certain remarks of Mr. Dawson Rogers j j
on the unsatisfactory character of most of the circles made ; j
for the investigation of Spiritualism. His animadversion j j
was especially directed to the frivolous and silly interlocutory j j
exhibition made by the embodied and disembodied spirits j j
present at such circles, and to the desirability of giving a j j
more religious tone to the whole proceedings. Putting aside j j
for the nonce the question of the religious character of the j j
circles as put forward there and then (a process that would j j
at once engender wrangling, from diversity of opinion and jjj
sensation, as it does all over the world) , I strongly join with j j
him as to the necessity for infusing more of the serious and j[j
thoughtful into the inquiry, and less of the buffoonery and ! j
wretched attempts at small wit which I have so often with jjj
loathing remarked at the circles in question. You may jjj
remember that in some papers which were printed in The jjj
Spiritualist three years ago I spoke warmly on this same vice jjj
of seances^ and I have reason to know that greater im- j j
becility prevailed at other circles which I had not the m
opportunity of joining. lit
What made me marvel in the course of the discussion j j
raised by Mr. Rogers, was to find my friend Mr. Yarley j !
standing forward as a defender of the joking character of j I
Spiritualistic seances. He made a distinction between j j
frivolity and joking which it is hard to see, especially when j j
applied to the subject of the thinking life of an immortal jjj
being. It may be well to learn that disembodied spirits are j j
capable of joking, but half a dozen instances would suffice to jjj
prove that, and would not the time left after proving that, be j j
more profitably spent in the endeavour to show that they can i I
do wiser things, and teach us wiser things about their own jjj
powers, their relations to us, and the conditions on which jjj
those relations are possible. Thus far we already know I I
about those relations, namely, that where two or three silly jjj
embodied spirits are gathered together, there will be silly dis- j j
embodied spirits also in the midst of them. We yearn to j j
know to the uttermost all that is to be known concerning the I j
wondrous secret of thinking life, and we stop short at the j j
joking point by drawing to us viewless beings who are as j j
sympathetically dull and joking as ourselves, for “gentle j j
dulness ever loves a joke.” And I ask any one who has j i
attended joking seances to say whether, when the ball was i j
set going, each sitter does not strive to cap the last joker, j j
and so two hours are wasted in listening to rubbish, both j j
from this and the other world, not a word of which is worth Ijj
the remembering? We need more bread and less mon- ijj
strosity of such sour sack as this. Distinguished electrician as j !
Mr. Yarley is, what would he think if a company of inquirers j j
into his subject were *to amuse themselves sitting after Ijj
sitting with some of the toys of electricity, the doll j j
with stiffened hair for instance? If {Spiritualism is to jjj
remain a joke (and a laughing stock as a consequence), then jjj
Mr. Yarley is right and Mr. Rogers is wrong; and really of jjj
the two “grooves” to which the former gentleman refers, j j
superstition (though there is no necessity that religion should jjj
be superstitious) and miserable jokes, I would rather plunge jjj
ears over into the former than have to listen for ever to jlj
the dreary alternative of jokes. i j
What, no doubt, Mr. Rogers wished to convey was, that jjj
the more serious and judicial the state of the mind j j
during investigation, the more likely was it to obtain pro- 1)1
it not be better to exclude theology—and jokes also, for
Heaven’s sake!—from the inquiry, and leave each man to
digest the religious food he finds in it at home—that is, in
his “ interior man,” and not trouble other people with stories
of his eupepsia or dyspepsia? and to crack all his jokes in
the home of his interior consciousness, and laugh at them
in the most private and distant room he can find ?
Mr. Harrison hit the right nail on the head when he said
the subject should be investigated scientifically, including the
element of affection, of human feeling, of all moral sensa¬
tions that make or mar the harmony of human thought. Given
circles with this condition of harmony, the life beyond would
indeed open itself to our closer inspection, and more near
and precious ken. But no jokers should be in the circle:
oh 1 no, certainly not: let the dead bury their dead; let the
jokers, in and out of the body, sit alone.
Mn. Gko. Bbowne has been appointed Secretary of the Liverpool
Psychological Society. All communications may be addressed to him
at No. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
The Travels of Mr. Peebles.—Mr. J. M. Peebles, who recently
went round the world to see the position of Spiritualism in nearly
every country in which it has taken root, is now travelling in the
Southern States of America, on his way to inspect some of the pre¬
historic remains in Mexico. He lectured on Spiritualism recently in
New Orleans.
Mrs. Jackson in Naples.—Signor Damiani writes from Naples,
April 11th:—“It may interest the friends of Mrs. Jackson, widow of
the late Mr. J. W. Jackson, mesmerist, of Glasgow, to know that she
arrived in Naples on Thursday, 30th March. The place which had
been promised to her, through her delay after the loss of her luggage in
England, had been filled up, but she has two others in view, either of
which is better than the one she has missed. She has had another mis¬
fortune with her personal effects, her boxes having been mislaid between
Modena and Turin; although great activity has been displayed in order
to obtain tidings of the lost luggage, nothing has as yet been heard of it.”
Spiritualism in the Provinces.—The following circular has been
issued to the members of the British National Association of Spiritual¬
ists :—“ I have the pleasure of informing you, on behalf of the Pro¬
vincial Societies’ Committee, that having received some response to the
circulars which were issued a short time ago, they have thought it well
to commence operations in the provinces without delay. To this end
satisfactory arrangements have been entered into with Dr. Sexton for a
series of lectures to be given under the auspices of this Association in
the North of England. It is confidently anticipated that this work will
be attended by very beneficial results; but, as it is obviously necessary
that, to reap the fullest possible advantage, the effort should be con¬
tinuous, and therefore a somewhat costly one, I am requested to invite
your attention to the facts and to solicit your kind assistance towards
defraying the expenses. The committee think that in no way could you
render greater aid to the cause of Spiritualism, or more surely promote
the growth and prosperity of this Association.—E. Kislingbury, Sec.
National Association Offices.—Wheh the National Association
of Spiritualists first took offices of its own, the expense had to be met
by large private subscriptions, and further funds had to be raised in the
same way to engage an efficient secretary. More subscriptions still
would have been necessary to engage a second officer to release the
secretary from attendance at certain times during the day, and Mr.
Harrison offered to give a portion of the time of his assistant for this
purpose, if the Association would grant him one of their two spare
rooms as an office. This was unanimously agreed to. He further, last
year, unasked, gave the Association much more than £60 worth of free
and under-priced advertising. Mr. Everitt recently said that dissatis¬
faction existed among some of the members of the National Association
in the provinces at the above arrangement; other provincial members
wrote expressing contrary opinions. Mr. Harrison then resigned his
office, and a Council meeting asked him by a majority of nineteen to
two to withdraw the resignation; he left the withdrawal or upholding
of the resignation in the hands of Mr. Martin Smith, Mr. A. Calder,
and Dr. Gully, to do as they thought fit, and said that any arrangement
of any kind they might make in his name he would agree to. The
result has been a unanimous agreement that the temporary tenancy
arranged for purposes of mutual convenience shall last till March, 1877,
at a fixed rent, and then cease, and that meanwhile certain steps shall
be taken to keep the public more constantly informed that TAe
Spiritualist newspaper and the National Association are not in any way
connected with each other.
188
THE S PI HIT UAL I ST,
April 21,1876.
THE MOULDING OF SPIRIT HANDS AND FEET IN MAN- !
CHESTER-EXTRAORDINARY MATERIALISATION MANI- !
FE STATIONS.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
I sent you an account of the production of wax moulds of spirit |1
hands, obtained through the mediumship of Mrs.  , which was |!
inserted in The Spiritualist of Feb. 11th, 1876, but as we have had j|
others produced through the mediumship of Dr. Monck, under extraordi- j I
nary circumstances, they are worthy of a permanent record in your I
columns. I'lr.y nj
Dr. Monck, who has been my guest for a few days, came to Man- ]
Chester on Sunday last (April 6th), and in the evening we had a sitting j
at the house of Mr. Reimers, Oxford-road. After a lively conversation, |
by means of raps, with our invisible friends, we were told that both j (
mediums, Mrs. —j— and Dr. Monck, were to go into the cabinet, and j >
that the paraffin wax was to be prepared. This being done, Mrs.  |
was soon off in the trance state, and Samuel, through Dr. Monck, took i
charge of the proceedings. He described and conversed with the spirit i
forms, Bertie, Lillie, and Mike, who materialised themselves and j
showed their faces several times. Samuel then told Mr. Reimers to |
come up to the cabinet, as Bertie had taken a mould of her foot. On i
going up to the cabinet (the same simple contrivance as used before), j (
Bertie put out her foot, with the mould still on it. Mr. Reimers took j
hold of the foot with his right hand ; there was a sudden jerk; the foot j (
was withdrawn, and the mould left in Mr. Reimers’ hand. I then | (
asked if the spirit would do the same for me, when we heard a splash, j j
and in a few seconds Dr. Monck came out of the cabinet and brought a Jr
similar one to me. The casts being taken, they were found to be the ! (
same as those which we had given us before through the mediumship of i
Mrs. .
The second sitting was held with strangers, at Higher Broughton. Dr. j (
Monck was not entranced at all, but sat at the table with the company !)
assembled, each hand locked during the seance (which was a dark one), j r
The piano and harmonium, which were quite away from the sitters, I (
were played, and on one occasion a tune was played on both instruments j [
at the same time, the instruments being closed. \ r
The third sitting was at another house in Higher Broughton, at : (
which we heard the direct voices of Mike and Bertie, the presiding spirits j
in Mrs. ’s seances. ' ' jr
The fourth and crowning seance was held at Mrs. ’s lodgings, off j (j
Oxford-road, on Wednesday evening last, when we had all the varieties j (|
of phenomena, from the table lifting to the making of hand and foot | (I
moulds, and materialisation of the spirit forms. The cabinet was formed i)!
by closing the shutters of the bow window which looked out into the i (i
street, and drawing the curtains across the opening. First came the : (|
dark seance, during which a large musical box was wound up and [|.|
started by direct spirit agency; and, in addition to this, music was i i
heard from a second instrument, something like a musical box, but i (I
different from any we had ever heard before, and which is simply inde- i f j
scribable. On our asking Samuel what instrument was used to m
produce the sounds, he replied: “ We have materialised one from the j(j
musical box.”
All at the table were touched from time to time by spirit hands, and ! (j
an illuminated hand was seen to lift the small musical box from the j(j
table and carry it over our heads and round the room; a large bowl i I
containing some unmelted paraffin wax, was turned upside down, and m
the wax left on the top; my glasses suspended from my neck, were taken | (i
off by spirit hands which I felt, and placed on my next neighbour; the jjj
necktie of my left hand neighbour was also untied and retied, but not jrj
secured. Samuel then said he would make a speech (as follows):—“ It i (|
has always been the custom in the past at assemblies to elect a chair- i; j
man, and in such a case it would be the correct thing to move that Mr. i (
Reimers take the chair. In the present instance I move that the chair I (
take Mr. Reimersand immediately Mr. Reimers said, “There is a in
chair resting over my head on my shoulders,” a position which the ](j
chair, with the man beneath, occupied during the rest of the sitting. Near i (i
the close of the seance Samuel wished us to note that everything which | > i
had occurred was symbolic or representative. It would be well if all who I \ \
attended spiritualistic seances would study this law, as there is a hidden ] (|
or inner meaning in all. It was a practical lesson intended to show that j / ;
all the old ideas concerning matter and spirit were to be reversed, and ! (
that life and activity were spiritual, not material.
After a short interval, during which the wax was prepared, Dr. j)j
Monck was controlled by Samuel again, who told us to search the |(i
medium and each of us go into the cabinet (if such it could be termed) i j i
with a light, to satisfy ourselves that nothing was there; everything i) |
was taken out of the medium’s pockets, and all were quite satisfied that | (i
he had nothing on but his ordinary dress; he then went behind the iji
curtains. The lamp was placed in a corner of the room, shedding a j) i
light which enabled us all clearly to see every object in the room; the I (\
table was placed close up to the curtains, and we all sat round it, j>j
Mrs. ——- amongst the number. In a little while an indistinct i (i
white form appeared at the opening near the ceiling where the curtains j sj
formed a Y. After three or four attempts it gradually became more i) |
distinct, when the head of the spirit Bertie was recognised ; afterwards ;} \
came Lily, Mike, and Richard, Mike having a fine black beard and ! s I
moustache with a turban on his head. Lily had a fine white crown, i;i
and Bertie a graceful fall. That which followed was the crowning test, i (!
Dr. Monck, still in the trance, put out his head and shoulders from ; S |
between the lower part of the curtains, and looking upward he said— !)!
“Now, come forward!” when instantly two forms, Lily and Bertie, ](i
appeared at the top opening and kissed each other, and. at the same time Ki
Mike drew aside the side curtain and showed his head, a test far more |) j
convincing than any tying, for the bodily form of the medium was right Kj
out before us, and three materialised spirit forms at the same time. j)|
Samuel then said that Bertie would make a mould of her hand, aud i/i
that Mr. Reimers was to take hold of her hand. The hand with the
wax mould on it was projected, when Mr. Reimers took hold of it, and
the hand being withdrawn in an instant it was left in his hands. The
spirit Lily then said she would give me a mould of her hand in the
same way, which was done. Afterwards Bertie said she would
give me a mould from her foot, which I was to take from her
foot; this also was accomplished, and I had the two moulds before
me on the table. On comparing these casts, taken from these
moulds we found the hands and feet to correspond with the ones
previously given through Mrs.  alone, the hand of Lily being
totally different from Bertie’s hand, and more extraordinary still, the
thumb was straight, and the fingers so curved that the first finger almost
touched the thumb, the width across the centre of the hand is 3 J inches
and only across the wrist.
With a potent fact like this, the feet and hands being perfect, any
modeller, artist, or even ordinary people, may see that no human being
could possibly make such a mould in one piece, and draw out the hands
or feet without rupturing or destroying the moulds.
In conclusion, came words formed by letters of light, “John,” and
*| S. W.; ” then stars, hands, and feet, all of light, a brilliant transparent
yellow; then a symbolic figure, the value of which was known to some
of those present; and finally a miniature sun, with a projecting corona.
All these remained visible for a few seconds, and moved about within
twelve inches from our eyes, so there could be no possible illusion or
delusion.
Many other striking and interesting phenomena took place, but I
forbear to trespass upon your space. The importance and value of
these spirit-moulds cannot be over-estimated, for while the relation of
Spiritual phenomena to others of doubtful and sceptical turn is valuable
only on the ground of credibility, the casts of these hands and feet are
permanent and patent facts, and now demand from men of science,
artists, and scoffers, a solution of the mystery of their production.
A singular fact I had almost overlooked—the wax mould of Lily’s
hand was scented with a beautiful odour, which still clings to the wax
melted from the cast, while the two other moulds from the same wax are
scentless. I presented Lily with my gold pencil, asking her if she
would write a note with it, which was not done. I asked her on
Thursday evening if she had the pencil, to which she replied she had,
and would keep it for the present, but it should be returned to me.
Thereby hangs a tale, which I will unfold on another occasion.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, April 14th, 1876.
(Eorrestumuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE STOKY OF THE CONVERSION TO SPIRITUALISM OF A SCIENTIFIC INQUIRER-
EXCITING MANIFESTATIONS AT HOME.
Sir,—I am say nearly forty years of age, and have studied classics
and mathematics in the schools in earlier times; also chemistry and
physics in the Royal College of Chemistry and elsewhere at a later
period; I have attended countless lectures on scientific subjects in all
branches; have read enough “ hand-books,” “text books,” “manuals,”
and “ first principles ” of all the “ ologies ” and “ isms ” to form a
small library; have kept up in the latest discoveries by a diligent peru¬
sal of the scientific periodicals and magazines and “ proceedings ” of
learned societies; have conversed with every first-class savant I have
met with on his own particular subject; and am a M.R.L Therefore I
fancied I knew a thing or two, and had a firm and sure basis whereon
to pile up future knowledge; was enfolded in threefold brass against
Spiritualism especially, which, indeed, appeared demonstrably absurd,
judged from the scientific side on the correlation of forces, and by the
latest discoveries and experiments on brain and nervous function ; and
nearly all the great leaders in modem metaphysics and philosophy
arrived at a similar result by pure reason and the inductive method.
Protestant religious conviction or “bigotry,” and my surroundings
generally, lent their aid in making the subject a disagreeable one in
every way.
Some years ago I accidentally received a copy of the Report of the
Dialectical Society on Spiritualism, and glanced over it; could not be¬
lieve much more than “ self-deception.” “Some jugglery, no doubt,”
and soon forgot all about it; this was my first “ spiritual ” reading.
In The Quarterly Journal of Science for August 1st, 1871, I met with
a paper on “ Psychic Force,” by Mr. Crookes, very interesting; in the
October 1st, 1871, a second paper, also by Mr. Crookes, on the same
subject, still more surprising.
Now, Mr. Crookes being a first-rate man and a tried observer, one felt
disturbed, unless, indeed, Mr. Crookes was for once in his life mistaken
or “ cracked.” However, the impression again died away, until some
two years after I saw Mr. Crookes’s book Facts in Spiritualism. I
now resolved to read up somewhat about this disturber of peace,
and settle him one way or the other. After reading some ten volumes
of a very (to me) novel and astounding character, I resolved to try an
experiment with two or three intimate friends in whom I had perfect
confidence. We were soon racing round with a loo-table, which went
this way and that, tilted, and so on, as requested, and answered questions
by tilting. Our first word spelled out in reply to a request for the name
of the intelligence was “ Nemo,” and on request for some better cog¬
nomen, “Legion” was given. On our grumbling at this name—“Ask
more serious questions,” which hint we took, and got intelligent replies
to all our queries. Next day (Wednesday) a planchette was procured,
and several curious results followed on the first trial, in which the close
imitation of the handwriting of a deceased person was quite as re¬
markable as the words and sentences written out. Soon afterwards a
second name was written out, and very clearly, that of a Mrs. -i—, an
April 21, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST;' 189
old and much, esteemed friend recently deceased; then followed several
long sentences appointing either of two mentioned days for “ becoming
visible,’’ this to take place c< in that room (our drawing-room), and no¬
where else,” and “through the help of a Mr. Williams a medium,”
and “ no other person to he present but four members of our own
family.” I procured Mr. Williams’ address on the following day
(Thursday), and arranged for a seance, to take place on the latter of the
two days mentioned (viz., Saturday) at one p.m. Mr. Williams, three
members of our own family, and myself, only to be present.
We now put away the planchette for a little, and formed the same
party, with one fresh hand, round the same loo-table, and after the
usual racing and tilting, as requested, answers to various trivial ques¬
tions were obtained with much vigour; then one of our party placed his
hand for a few seconds on the planchette again, when an intricate
figure was produced very rapidly. This proved to be a monogram,
N. L.; now came a scarcely legible word like “ darken.” No one of us
could understand this ; then came, very quickly and clearly written,
“ We will try to appear in the dark.” The room was made dark, when
the table became very lively indeed, seemed to lose its weight, and began
soon to rise, or float as it were. It went up until beyond the reach of
all save the two tallest of party, and they had only the tips of their
fingers on the upper surface of the top of the table. On its coming
down after first elevation, some one said, “ Can you make it heavier? ”
Yes. “ Pray do so.” The weight now became so great that to move it
without fracture seemed impossible. This alternate floating and
“ fixing ” was repeated two or three times by request. Some one now
said, “Can you rap answers? one for‘yes,’ two for ‘no’?” In a
second I heard my first rap, and a very peculiar and inimitable sound
it is. Several questions were asked now, and answered by raps instead
of by tilts as previously, such as, “Are you still trying to appear?”
Yes. “ Do you think you can do so to-night?” Yes. “Inhalf-an-
hour?” Yes. “ Twenty minutes?” Doubtful (by three raps). Some
one fancied a hand was now placed on him; others fancied that curious
firefly-like lights, or sparks, began flitting about the room. A wooden
music-stand, some eighteen feet distant from the table, was moved about
and slightly broken; the table became again convulsed; the leg and
cross-bar were broken off with loud splitting sounds. Some one now
suggested that it was “ getting very latef and as this sentiment appeared
to be very generally held by all those present, we brought experiment
two to a termination.
On the following Saturday at one p.m., as arranged, Mr. Williams
and three members of our own family and myself were present. Mr.
Williams and the others sat down at once to a little round work-table,
which I had chosen especially, because made of a plain solid slab of
wood on a plain solid pillar of wood; no drawer. I had sent for two
hand-bells at Mr. Williams’ request, and, until they came, had placed
a larger (dinner) bell underneath an Erard piano, about fifteen feet
away from where the party were seated. I was anxious to have all
quite conclusive. Mr. Williams was put in his chair the instant he
came in, and to my positive knowledge remained there throughout, his
feet in contact with the other sitters on each side, and his fingers firmly
held in contact with theirs. For my own part I remained purposely
roving around the table generally, to prevent even the possibility of
error, or losing sight of any phenomena which might occur. Well, in a
few minutes the small work-table moved up freely, and, with delicate
raps, stated that the appointment had been kept: “ Mrs. M was
there;” whilst one or two questions for identity were put, and being
answered, several vivid and beautiful lights flitted about the room.
These were very like fireflys, but were larger and more beautiful in the
colour of light. I now heard the large bell ringing gently, and ap¬
proaching the table through the air. I also heard and felt it when
placed on the centre of the table. At this moment the two hand-bells
were brought by a servant to the door, tied up in paper and string, as
just come from the shop. I placed them on the top of the piano, some
twelve feet from the party at the table, and had scarcely done so, and
.retired a step or two, when I heard the tongue of the smaller of the two
bells striking inside the paper covering. I returned instantly, and re¬
moved the paper and string from both bells; whilst doing so I
felt a hand grasp my foot, and the next moment the smaller
of the two bells, which I had just freed from its covering,
and laid down again on the top of the piano, was seized before my eyes
by a small luminous spot, or, more correctly, two patches of light, with
the knob of the handle of the bell between them. On looking more
closely one could see that one spot was the middle knuckle of a fore¬
finger, and the other a thumb as far as end of first joint; the bell,
ringing in a peculiarly joyous way, advanced through the air into the
middle of the large room—then came to the table and went clear round
the head of each of the party. I now closely watched the bell, by the
light from before-mentioned spots, and marked that the ringing was
caused by the tongue vibrating of its own proper motion, within the bell:
which latter was sailing or floating in the air in an upright position, and
quite free of all motion save this floating, gliding, onward motion ; the
bell made a wide circuit in the room again, then was drawn caressingly
over the hands of several of the party, and lastly, was very gently laid
down upon my hand. As it did so I felt the caress alluded to by the
others, and saw the light vanish.
Some one now said, “ I feel delicate hands touching me.” Every one
soon felt these in rapid succession—on the arms, on the hands, but
chiefly on the head. It is impossible to give one who has not felt them
any idea of the sensation of these spirit touches: firm, warm as the
hand of a living person, withal an ethereal softness and delicacy not of
earth; the caressing of head in my case lasted about a minute, and in
that of my mother rather longer, being also in her case accompanied by
an arranging and smoothing of the hair, at once recognised by her as
the well remembered caress of Mrs. M , when they were school com¬
panions. All these touches conveyed the idea of love and tenderness in
its essence, so to speak.
The piano, which had been closed, but not locked, was next opened
by these spirit hands, and notes were sounded (especially near the treble
end) accompanying a perfect rain, or flutter of little raps going on at the
same time on the table. These notes and raps kept measure or time to
each other. A heavy square piano stool was drawn along the floor for
several feet towards the table; rustling sounds as of a dress were heard;
some leaves of music were moved about, just as if some person were
there. The perfume, which Mrs. M had used during the latter
part of her life, was now perceived by every one (almost simultaneously)
and added to this, a feeling of “a presence” other than ourselves. A
luminous hand (up to the wrist) next appeared in the air; this was just
over my mother’s head (about six inches above); it flashed into light
from the wrist part towards the fingers, when it appeared; it then
remained quite steady for some seconds, and then the light died out from
the wrist part towards the fingers. The light was so vivid that I could
see the hair plaits on my mother’s head distinctly. Several minor
phenomena occurred, but as this paper is of undue length already, they
cannot be mentioned in detail.
A young lady present now suddenly recollected that she had an
engagement at that hour, and our seance was, rather against my wish,
brought to an end.
Subsequently to the above I have had a few other experiences as
remarkable in every way and as utterly subversive of a hard and fast
lined materialistic science and philosophy as their greatest foe could
wish. For myself, I have seen, heard, felt the much vaunted structure
of Self-sufficiency and pride, so laboriously put together and confidently
trusted in, crumble wholly into nothing. J. R.
H\FED, PRINCE OP PERSIA.
Sir,—Allow me to point out to “ J. B. W.” that in his letter, ap¬
pearing in your issue of the 31st ult., he has made one error which
detracts from the whole of his conclusions.
He says that “If the reputed spirits of Ruysdael and Jan Stein will
condescend to such petty deception, can any one have confidence that
there is even a shade of truth in the events they profess to narrate?”
Ruysdael and Stein do not profess to be the narrators of the “ tale.”
It professed to emanate from the spirits of the Persian, Hafed, and the
Egyptian, Hermes, and a marked difference will be found between the
style of the narration itself, and the style of such of the fragmentary
pieces in the appendix to the work as do profess to emanate from
Ruysdael and Stein.
The point of “ J. B. W.’s ” communication is thus partly lost, because
he cannot be so unreasonable as to hold the real exponents of the “ high
moral theme ’’ (Hafed and Hermes) responsible for any errors of judg¬
ment of either of the artists,'or any vagaries which the latter might
have indulged in while prosecuting their part of the undertaking.
The literary (and most important) part of the work is one thing, the
artistical another; and to me it seems that each should be treated on
its own ground. Any mistakes which may have been made by one set
of workers cannot possibly affect the integrity of the other set, or throw
discredit upon the work of the latter; and such mistakes do not neces¬
sarily affect the integrity even of those by whom they were made. ^
Cardiff, April 4th, 1876.
THE SCATTERGOOD TESTIMONIAL.
Sir,—The treasurer desires respectfully to acknowledge donations
from Martin R. Smith, Esq., Alexander Calder, Esq., Thomas Everitt,
Esq., and other friends. Further donations to the fund should be
sent forthwith, as the presentation will be made on Tuesday, the 2nd
of May.
Tea will be provided in the Old Court House, Union-street, Halifax,
at 5.30 p.m.; business to commence at 7 o’clock. Admission to tea, Is.;
after tea, 6d.
Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Jackson, Mrs. Butterfield, Miss
Longbottom, and other mediums and normal speakers, are kindly giving
addresses for the benefit of the fund. Readers of The Spiritualist are
respectfully solicited to send special donations and post-office orders to
the undersigned, by whom they will be duly acknowledged.
“ The liberal deviseth liberal things.”
Signed on behalf of the Committee, John Lamont.
199, London-read, Liverpool.
MYSTERIOUS HOUSEHOLD DISTURBANCES.
Sir,—Happening this week to have paid a visit to a friend living in
the south of London, an interesting case was related to me, which I
think merits publication, as I believe the narrator to be a thoroughly
trustworthy person, and quite unacquainted with Spiritualism. It
appears that on several occasions recently mysterious knockings have
been heard in one of the bedrooms, by more than one member of the
family, also by a visitor staying in the house ; in addition, what
appeared to sound like footsteps on the stairs during the night have
been heard by others in the family. These mysterious sounds have
caused great alarm, and no definite clue has yet been found to the
cause; but the climax appeared to have arrived last week, when one day
the maidservant went upstairs to the said room, and found the door locked.
After trying to open it, and not succeeding, she called her mistress, who
also tried, but failed. The servant, thinking that one of the children
had fastened it inside in fun, said: “ If anyone is in the room, open the
door.” Almost immediately the door flew open, as if by magic, and
directly three distinct knocks, like to those before heard, sounded upon
the door, and it was found on examination that the bolt of the lock was
out, the key having to be obtained in order to close the door.
On hearing, this story I said that no doubt a former inhabitant of the
190
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 21, 1876.
house could not rest, and wished to reveal some information, perhaps,
connected with a hidden treasure; which suggestion, of course, produced
some laughter. In order, however, to test the matter, I proposed a
seance, which was strongly objected to by the lady of the house, but
acquiesced in by her husband, and we two sat down to a small table.
After sitting for about a quarter of an hour the table moved, which
movement we ascertained, after I had put one or two questions, was
caused by the same invisible power which had produced the knocks on
the door. The invisible stated in reply to my questions that he had
lived in the house about seventy years before, and that a large sum of
money was deposited under the boards of the said room. Of course, I
advised my friend to test the truth of this, but whether his better half
will acquiesce in having the boards taken up I have not yet heard,
although, strange to relate, in addition to this she herself had a dream
with reference to an aged individual supposed to be in the house at the
commencement of their tenancy.
I doubt not this will ultimately be found to be one of those cases
which cannot be attributed to anything short of supernatural agency;
and this view is strengthened by the fact that no one in the house
would be likely simply for amusement to produce the mysterious sounds,
as all the occupants would rather not have .heard them.
E. Parkinson Ashton.
Hope Villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
April 12th, 1876.
organic changes in the spiritual movement.
Sir,—In your number of March 3rd appear some fine thoughts on
the above subject. You say your Spiritualists are commencing to
divide into groups, those of like education going by themselves in
societies. Your explanation shows that the movement in Great Britain
is only in advance of a similar one in the United States. With you it
is already being realised in practice; with us it scarcely yet amounts to
a theory or an idea. With you, organisation, order, and system, are
settled convictions; with us, order is coming out of chaos, and the
progress is not rapid. We have noticed the opposition you have met
with to organisation, but we have to contend with greater opposition.
Some years ago the movement here was better organised than now, and
failure resulted from too great a degree of liberality. We were too
liberal towards the anti-Spiritualists, and invited and courted them to
such an extent as to make them the stronger element in most of our
meetings. This was the cause of much of our disintegration. Recon¬
struction has commenced, and as it proceeds our efficiency and strength
increase. Some of the special issues that also had a temporarily
destructive influence are being modified, blended and harmonised, so
that this latter influence will be only temporary.
History chronicles the fact that great reforms do not originate with
the educated classes, and modern Spiritualism is no exception to this
rule. Its birth was among the solid and natural, but not in so-called
fashionable circles. In its transmission to other countries it was
received by the educated classes ; thus in England the movement was
started on a plane of intelligence already orderly, and with this advan¬
tage you will have less difficulty in popularising it. In America the
struggle will be long and hard, and Spiritualism will at last have to
be forced upon the educated classes. You will now see why, here in
America, we are not yet ready to make much of a movement towards
including the educated. The national organisation of the United States
has at times demonstrated power and influence, but at present it is
sleeping. There are indications that it will not sleep always. It has
got a little off the track; when it revives you may expect to see it
accomplish some more good work. Possibly its present suspension is
the result of having undertaken to reform the world somewhat too fast.
We watch with great interest all the Spiritualistic movements of our
English cousins ; we watch too with profit and pride. The American
national organisation of Spiritualists will be a permanent success, when
it shall be composed of a sufficient sprinkling of members that are in
themselves orderly. Order, intelligence, wisdom, and profound principles
must be the basis. Where many different classes of mental develop¬
ment are labouring to keep together in one society, and find the work
difficult, they will facilitate progress by natural and judicious separa¬
tions. E. W. Baldwin.
Milwaukee, Wisv, U.S., March 31st, 1876.
PERPETUATED INDIVIDUALITV.
Sir,—If I may judge from the number of letters I get on the subject,
the question of immortality or perpetuated individuality is one that
interests and exercises many. I cannot find the time necessary to reply
to all my correspondents, nor am I able to answer several of the queries
put to me. Since, however, the same questions are asked over and over
again, I venture to ask you to print for me the following letter which I
wrote a short time ago in reply to a correspondent who inquired of me
as to the perpetuation of conscious individuality after physical death.
In doing this I have no other object in view than to say, once and for
all, in such a way as one can deal with these matters in a letter, what
lies on the surface of a great question. I am conscious enough of the
crudities that the letter contains. It is needless to say that it was not
written for publication. But I believe that profound thought on these
abstruse points would defeat my object, which is simply to say, in plain
and intelligible language, what may be a partial answer to questions that
rise in many minds. M.A., Oxon.
[Copy.]
Madam,—Your favour of the 8th has been forwarded to me by the
Editor of The Spiritualist, and I trust you will excuse me if I return
what you may consider a brief reply to the very important questions
which it opens out. In the midst of a pressing and increasing mass of
work I have hardly time to systematise my ideas, and I shrink from
putting forward crude notions on a very important matter.
One or two things are clear. Of immortality, other than perpetuated
existence, we can know nothing. I venture to think in this connection
that the title of my friend Mr. Epes Sargent’s excellent little book, The
Proof Palpable of Immortality, is a misnomer. Exactness, however, is
not required in the title of a popular work.
Moreover, the phenomena of modern Spiritualism, however strong a
presumption they set up, seem to me to fall short of positive demonstra¬
tion of our own perpetuated existence. Those who have gone deepest
seem to feel most uncertain as to the nature and character of many of
the operating intelligences whose existence is adduced as evidence for
our own immortality.
Again, individuality is most probably greatly concerned with the
outward manifestation in the human form, and would accordingly be (to
a great extent) merged, impaired, or changed at physical death.
The higher individuality, or selfhood—the selecting power of which
you speak—is something (as you well point out) which is inherent in the
interior principle, and is the conscious Ego which through endless cycles
of progress is developed upwards to perfection.
I cannot conceive this principle as other than immortal, though I can
perfectly well fancy myself passing through numberless changes of being
in each of which (save in the innermost) I am utterly unlike what I was
in a previous state'.
So far as I can put in words what is in my mind I should say that
your statement is accurate. But probably there is a laxness in the use
of terms all through this argument. The word immortality should be
carefully defined in its use. Individuality, personality, selfhood, and the
like should be equally, clearly, and specially limited in use. And when
all is done we shall find, I think, that our present powers do not enable
us to grasp the full meaning of or the niceties of distinction between the
terms we use.
Not venturing here and now to attempt precise definition, I say,
roughly, that it seems to me:—
1. That we have grounds, more or less sure, for the belief that
human existence does not end with physical death. [In some cases
certainly not?)
2. That we have grounds for belief that the future of the human
spirit is one of development in progress where progress has been begun
in the earth-life; and of purgatorial cleansing away of the dross of sin
and corruption where the opportunities of earth-life have been wasted.
3. That personality has been fairly proven to be perpetuated over
a very long course of years by the fact that departed spirits have
returned and have given trustworthy evidence of their perpetuated
personality.
4. That, having in view the infinitude of eternity, we have no sure
ground for saying that this individuality is indefinitely perpetuated.
5. But, rather, that there is within what we now understand as
individuality a germ of spiritual life, which is destined, probably, to be
gradually eliminated from all exterior manifestations, and is the death-
surviving, immortal principle in the soul of man—that by virtue of the
possession of which he is a “ son of God.”
6. That this inherent principle we never can estimate in our present
state of knowledge: but that we seem to come nearest when we say
that it is “ life essence,” implanted by the Great Creator for development
and final perfection through cycles of varying purgation.
This, I take it, is the selecting principle of yourself and G. T. C. M.
If this seems to you vague, I pray you to consider the low state of
progression in which we now are, and that these are mysteries enveloped
in the clouds and darkness that enshroud the throne of the Eternal.
Vagueness and tentative handling seem best suited to such abstruse
subjects. * # * M.A., Oxon.
THE ‘•DOUBLE.” WHO ARE THE PRODUCERS THEREOF?
Sir,—The Baroness Adelma Von Vay says:—“Persons of strong
mesmeric power, who understand the art of magic, can draw numbers
of doubles around them, and can send them out on various missions ;
but a deep knowledge of magical power is necessary for this.” As yet
I am unable to obtain the evidence that a “ double ” is any other than
what is termed a “ materialisation.” I do not pretend to understand
how, or by what law these forms are produced ; but the most prevalent
idea seems to be that the materials for manufacturing these forms are
drawn from the body of a medium, from persons sitting in circle, and
from surrounding elements ; that these materials are so drawn and put
in form by disembodied spirits, and it is quite a natural conclusion on
the part of investigators that these “materialised” forms, so-called,
are a covering, or are pervaded by a spiritual form which is the pro¬
ducer of the materialised form of such materialising spirit. Now, there
is ample evidence to show that these materialised forms are produced by
some intelligence which has the power to change the outline and general
appearance of a materialised form, so as to represent difterent persons,
or a person or spirit, with or without the deformities of earth life; this
destroys the evidence of identity, and throws the scale of evidence of
identification in favour of the producers of materialised forms being
competent to produce as many imitations or representations of a single
person in earth life as they choose to manufacture. The author of the
above quotation further says :—“ Some mediums, and even those with¬
out any special medial gifts, have been seen to appear in distant places,
while they were quietly at home; this happens by the attraction of cer¬
tain spirits who are able to take on the form of the person in question.”
Now, this is admitting that spirits can manufacture as many faosimiles,
imitations, or representations of the same individuals as they choose.
The only difference, then, between a form called a “ double,” and a form
called a materialised spirit is, that the one is an imitation of an em¬
bodied form, and the other is an imitation of the earthly form of a dis¬
embodied spirit. If spirits have the ability to manufacture fabrics for
wearing apparel, I see no reason why they may not have the power to
produce an imitation of a human form. Furthermore, there is ample
April 21, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
191
evidence that spirits can sometimes make material objects invisible to |ji
mortals at will, which being the case, spirits are enabled to carry on a i/|
materialising seance, with the aid of permanent material masks and jjj
attire, and to multiply imitations to any extent, whether such spirits are i|j
tricksters, or qualified angel missionaries. If the latter, they are m
governed by the laws of development; if the former, they are under no | (j
restraint, and have no high authority, therefore will act in accordance i j j
with their own natural inclinations, and produce such phenomena as j) j
they have the ability to exhibit, and which best subserves the pur- Hi
poses of their own gratification, so that doubles, or materialised forms, j|
so called, of any description, maybe produced in either case. \)
The Baroness further says“ When a spirit becomes incarnated, and j (
lives on earth as man, a so-called guardian spirit accompanies him, who ! j
becomes likewise, to a certain extent, incarnated with him. The child if
is born into the flesh, the guardian spirit dwells in the perisprit, or nerve }]
aura, and takes a form exactly similar to that of its medium or foster j]
child. This guardian is the double or twin spirit of the incarnated j|
spirit of the man. In this way every man has with him a living ever- i
abiding facsimile, a protecting spirit who is inseparable from him.” If
I understand the Baroness, this guardian, or double, has the ability to j(
do the manual labour of his ward, separate and apart from him, but I i
suppose he must first materialise a physical body and clothe it. So it 15
is plain that if a double cannot be produced in one way it can in another, i
and that “ persons of strong mesmeric power who have a deep know-
ledge of magic,” can, when they have more business than they can
attend to alone, summon as many doubles as they require to perform i
the required labour, on a very economical scale. I do not intend to j
ridicule this idea, but it seems to me this is a plain matter of fact, |
provided the Baroness is correct in her statements. j(
It seems to me that Spiritualism is becoming lumbered with much j I
that is valueless in the unfolding of truth; yet, I think it quite im- |
portant that the advocates of new ideas should have a hearing, if such j i
ideas bear any semblance of truth, whether such advocates be of high H
or low repute, as regards their literary standing or ancestral celebrity, j J
It matters but little through whom the communications come—whether i i
the author be a spirit embodied or a spirit disembodied, the truth or j1
falsity of all sayings must be determined by logical tests. What are j
called logical tests are not unfrequently mere decisions in accordance j
with a certain standpoint, which standpoint is but a descendant of an
ancestral dogma, for error produces only error.
The doctrine of reincarnation, I am fully persuaded, is a doctrine that 1
has been handed down from on high, either as a stepping stone to a
real truth or principle, or as an antagonism necessary to the develop¬
ment of truth. The doctrine of a devil, of evil spirits, with a lake of
fire and brimstone in which to put them, it seems to me, was a necessity |
in a developing process, antagonistically considered. Different doctrines !
are given through different media, and each doctrine thus given, whether
true or untrue, is made a standpoint to prove other doctrines which are
man-made. The doctrine or theory of a “ double ” is, in my humble,
opinion, proved only by a false standpoint.
For more than fifteen years I have been a full believer in the
doctrine that “ none but qualified angel missionaries are the producers
of the spiritual phenomena,” and with a full understanding of this j
doctrine we have a key to unlock very many mysteries that are otherwise
unsolvable. By this key it is determined that the double is produced |
by qualified, disembodied spirits, though the person of whom the
double is a facsimile, may apparently will the production of the double ;
the volition may be and is a spiritual impression, in my humble opinion.
Now, Mr. Editor, as I have broached a doctrine perchance antagonistic
to long established views of your own, I desire to call your attention to
an article in the Heligio-Philosophical Journal of March 11th, 1876,
on the first page, over the signature of E. D. Warren, and also the
article of mine to which he refers in said journal of February 12th,
1876, headed Supernal Laws Governing Spiritual Phenomena.
D. Gr. Mosher.
Mosherville, Hillsdale County, Michigan, U.S.A.
SPIRITUALISM IN ISLINGTON.
Sir,—At a physical seance held at Mrs. Bradley’s, 77, Oakley-road,
Islington, Edward Bullock, medium, the manifestations were of an ex¬
ceedingly successful character. Lillie controlled the medium. Large
and small hands were felt in the dark. A fan was taken from another
part of the room, and the members of the circle fanned with it. Scent
was sprinkled over the circle, and one gentleman having had some put
in his eye (by accident) a handkerchief was taken from a lady’s pocket,
and used to wipe the injured organ. The spirit of Daniel Watts
then appeared, and spoke through a mouth organ which floated in the
air. Each member of the circle was touched by a paper tube, almost
simultaneously at different parts of the table. Just before leaving, the
spirit shook hands with all present, and thus terminated a remarkably
successful seance. Miss Florence Partington, who shows promise of
becoming a first-class clairvoyant, was present. One gentleman present
(who till then had been a sceptic) informed us, that what he had then
seen was so convincing that he should never again disbelieve in Spirit¬
ualism. Oxonian.
77, Oakley-road, Islington, N., April 3.
THE PRESENT OPINIONS OF THE LATE MR. GUPPV. jCj
Sir,—Being in a position to communicate with my old friend Samuel i|j
Guppy, I send you some of his remarks from the other side. They are, i(i
for the most part, answers to questions of a nature likely to be in- Hi
teresting to all, and of especial interest to the numerous friends he has j/i
left behind him, who cannot but be glad to learn from so acute an m
observer his impressions of the spirit world. Madame de Veh is the i|j
medium, and the communications are made by means of a common i)i
saucer, with a black line marked on it. This saucer, being inverted, is Hi
moved quickly, when her hand is placed upon it, over a large piece of 1 1
cardboard, with a printed alphabet, stopping for a second at each of the
required letters.
Ques. You had a fluent tongue when on earth, and could well explain
any matter that you were conversant with; please give me an account of
your present state.
Ans. Then I could find the words; now I am in the clouds of uncer¬
tainty : there I lived for myself; here I am nothing to those about me,
and still less to myself. I do not suffer, but I am not happy, as I am
nothing. On earth I was comfortably housed, clothed, and fed ; a solid
well-being surrounded me, and my habits and whims were the laws
which ruled my private existence. Leaving all this, I find myself on
the borders of a cold and indifferent life. Let me explain. Instead of
being “ Mr. Guppy,” I am the last comer. I do not imply that I was
badly received, for there are always good and elevated spirits ready to
receive and encourage those who have just passed into the new exist¬
ence ; but still the earthy affections, habits, wants, and attentions
remain, and seem to clog the spiritual understanding, and the new
affections are not appreciated at them just value. Once having turned
one’s eyes from earth one feels how small an atom one is, and how
monstrous have been one’s faults, vanities, and ignorance. You then
gladly hide yourself behind those who surround you, and oh, how
thankfully you accept the outstretched hands of your new guides.
When I tell you that every day, every hour, seems to take us farther
and farther from the earth and its puny interests, you will understand
the difference between the one existence and the other, and it must be a
sympathy and a desire to be useful that can draw an answer from us to
you, for it is my wish to advance and soar above the cloudy, dingy
earth interest. Had I not some family interest or chain, I should never
make myself known but to those who, like you, old friend, call upon
me, with Madame’s help, to get an answer tending to unravel riddles
complicated to you, but which are as clear as day to those who, like
myself, see from above.
Ques. But how are you occupied f What are you doing f
Ans. Repenting at leisure for opportunities misused and neglected.
Ques. It seems to me that the best kind of repentance is to be up and
doing. Regretting the past is of no use; the right thing to do is to
retrieve that, by doing better in the future.
Ans. Well, you are astonishing ! Do you suppose that I sit still with
my hands in my lap, and pipe my eye. No, I learn to measure my
ignorance by the wonders I see, and by more I shall see when, like a
schoolboy, I shall advance to a higher class. Is it not work to try to
get out of the narrow, tight-fitting garment of ignorance ?
Ques. Have you discovered anything about reincarnation f
Ans. Dear me, I know no more about it than you. I am not yet
beyond the antechamber, and, believe me, the curtain of the chamber of
knowledge is too thick and heavy for me to lift.
Ques. But there are people here, still in the flesh, who seem to know all
about it.
Ans. They have heard of it from spirits who have been longer in this
world, and have crossed the threshold of a higher knowledge than I
possess; nevertheless, there is more sense in the reincarnation theory
than the old world credulity which speaks of the beginning and end of
man, and thinks it can judge of what will take place after that end,—
all wrong, for they stick to antiquated traditions, whose only claim to
respect is their great age. As with many such antiquities, when you
remove the dust of ages, you find nothing but bare walls, bereft of all
poetry and beauty. I knew nothing positive when I was with you, but
was avoided by many as a free rough thinker, who did not accept the
antiquities ; and I do not like to speak too positively now, as I feel so
ignorant, but I think you do not understand reincarnation. It ought to
be called progression. You will find it difficult to make the doctrine
acceptable, if you talk about there being people now on earth who were
Joan of Arc, &c., &c.
One evening the following communication was given without any
question having been asked. I had been saying that I had sent some
of Mr. Guppy’s remarks to a friend, and that he had replied that they
were vague, and had not the Guppy ring about them. I had also said
that some people did not consider Guppy’s spirit portrait like him.
Guppy. What does he mean by the Guppy ring ? Does he suppose
that on our arrival here we do not see and feel what monstrous donkeys
we were, although we previously considered ourselves most intelligent.
When I say this I do not wish you to infer that we become wise or
clever all at once, but at least we are convinced of our utter ignorance ;
and with regard to my face not being like what it was, I come with a
spiritualised mask, trying to keep the features, but spiritualising the
expression; and if you mark well, I am even younger looking, having
thrown off a little of the grosser expression.
Ques. Have you anything to say to S— M— f
Ans. Tell him that our translation does not make Imperators of us.
He has passed through centuries of progress; I am Samuel (sic) Guppy
still. The old man clings to me. When I can cast Mm off I shall be
more worthy of being listened to. Now my conversation, arriving from
so far (however rapid the mode of transmission), appears twaddle to Mr.
M •, M.A.
Ques. Have you communicated in London f
Ans. Shewn my beautiful phiz through Bastian and Taylor. Well,
dear friends, here I am, proud to meet you all. Good company is, and
always was, a pleasure to me, although I also enjoyed the rough and
ready sort. Now, Mr. Veh, let’s have a jaw—I mean talk. You
remember me, I remember you; so that’s settled. You remember me as
a rough sort of individual, and I remember you as a plain spoken one.
You did right to defend the absent, and I was glad that some one should
hear the truth. Now I make my bow, and leave the scene of my
triumph.
[Allusion here is made to what M. de Veh once said in Mr. Guppy’s
presence to his wife, in deprecation of her harsh judgment of another
medium.]
192
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 21, 1876',
Ques.—As this process of communicating with the saucer is rather
tedious, do you thinh you can use Madame de Velds hand to write f
Ans. [written through the hand).—I wish I could get at you as a
medium, wouldn’t I then pump my ideas into your brain; a system of
suction not to be had, so I must make use of another’s hand, but not
her brain, as I wish her to be my secretary, and not to dictate to me.
I always liked to hear myself talk, and so now I like to dictate and
guide another’s pen.
Ques.—Very well; we should like to know, then, about the actual state
of spirits in the spirit world. Here is your telegraph, pray use it, and let
us learn from you something that will he profitable to us, and help us to
prepare for that state.
Ans.—Dear old friend and companion of many a happy hour, I hear
what you say, and wish I were worthy of being your guide; you desire
to penetrate the unknown ways; you wish to know the work that is
before you, and how to prepare to shorten or diminish the trials you
may have to undergo. But instead of being a master—a teacher—I
feel like a little boy just going to school, and, ridiculous as it may
appear to you, if you could see me, I am often with open eyes and gap¬
ing mouth trying to understand and learn the new truths; I feel so
small and such a nonentity before the immense map of knowledge
spread out before me. I had seen much water and much land when in
your sphere, but compared to all I have to see and visit here, it is like
a voyage from London to Greenwich. You call the manifestations
wonders, but compared to what you could have, were you better prepared,
the present are mere child’s play. Ask me anything you want to know,
but remember it is as difficult for us to explain as for you to under¬
stand.
Ques.—How are you dressed f
Ans.—Fluidical garments are all we require, for heat and cold do not
exist for us. When you hear of spirits being cold and shivering, it
means they are tied to the earth’s influences. It is only those who have
a work allotted to them who materialise their garments sufficiently for
you to feel and touch them.
Ques.— Where do you get your dress from upon your arrival in spirit
land ?
Ans.—Why, you old goose! When I say fluid, we are all fluid. As
soon as one wakes and is a spirit one is fluidically dressed; but do not
suppose that it is directly after departure from your side of the river
that a new comer is a spirit. How many lie torpid and still, unmoved
by the gloriously busy throng around them! They neither sleep nor do
they wake; their state is that of the pupa, neither caterpillar nor
butterfly. And even when they do wake to their new life they refuse
to accept their position; not being prepared for it, their spiritual sight
cannot support the light of the new day. They refuse to see and under¬
stand. They would prefer total darkness, as their souls would not then
feel in a strange land. Oh, dear friends, how blessed are those who
come into the new existence prepared to encounter all its brightness
and busy life! As each one profits or neglects the opportunities given
him while on earth, so will the time of his probation be lengthened or
shortened. Kibosh was innocent of all advancement in the world he
lived in; he was so from having no opportunity for moral education,
consequently, those years spent idly upon the earth will not be counted
against him; whereas Henry Morgan had a position where he could
have exercised his good opportunities. His years of neglect will count
double. God bless him; for he is working with a truly repentant
spirit. Be genial with him when you have an opportunity, for his
state is indeed a painful one. His eyes, his memories are all open to
the sad past, and he would often have asked as a charity to drink the
waters of Lethe.
Ques. Do you think it would he unkind of me to call attention to
an account of him and his depredations that has appeared in the recent
number of a periodical f
Ans. Nothing you can say or write about John King can touch him
compared to the tortures of his memory; truly memory is a real
purgatory, where you might wish the Catholic Masses were really
profitable; for if the retrospect of one’s past life is a torture to the best
of men, think what criminals must feel and suffer, and how gladly they
would keep in the dark, or seek the earth’s neighbourhood, hoping to
hide their heads and thus forget and be forgotten. And when they are
called forth by the kind guardians, and encouraged to try the light, can
you fancy anything more awful or more natural? You good people
often in discussing the future state, object or approve of theories about
this life as being unnatural or too natural to be accepted, for you all
start (as I did in my proud, inflated ignorance, called “intelligence”)
with the erroneous notion that once in another existence all and every¬
thing must be changed, we are all to be either angels with white
drapery, wings and harps, or devils with horns and long tails, all very
black. What an atrocious libel on Divine justice. Where would the
poor savages be ? or the tolerably virtuous man ? There is one thing
certain, that the legions of perfect angels would be very much in the
minority. No, no, dear old friend, go your way quietly, trying to do all
the good you can in a small way, quite prepared to pass the river of
life with a tranquil reliance on the love—the great love—which ad¬
ministers justice tempered with mercy, and not one even of the smallest
shall be met otherwise than with pity and Divine charity.
J. N. Gledstanes.
Paris.
a good Test seance relating to materialised spirit drapery.
Sir,-—In your issue for April 7, page 168, reference is made to an
experiment conducted by me; the following are the facts of the case as
described in a lecture delivered a few months ago, they being of interest
to your scientific readers:—
“ The fourth and last objection which was replied to at considerable
length, was: The phenomena are produced by trick and legerdemain,
fjj and ordinary conjurers produce phenomena that are equally incompre-
ij hensible; indeed, they produce the same phenomena under equally diffi-
| H cult conditions. The whole controversy, the lecturer pointed out, with
|)| the conjurers and their supporters was a question of conditions. But
j/j he defied any conjurer, by any of the sleight-of-hand resources of his
i(j profession, to produce the phenomena he was about to describe, and
m under similar conditions to those in which they took place. And to
j)j silence conjurers, and to brand them as mere pretenders to a power
m they did not possess, he therefore offered 100 guineas to any man who,
I j| in his presence and under the conditions he was about to describe, could
produce similar phenomena by trick or deception. On Saturday, May
jO 1, he prepared a cabinet, and carefully excluded everything that had the
j)j appearance of whiteness, and everything that could by any possibility
j)j be used for clothing. Having arranged the cabinet, he locked the
j(j doors of the rooms, and carried with him three different keys that
jji required to be used before the seance room could be entered. At 6.15
j?j p.m. he unlocked the doors, and with his friend Mr. Adshead, of Derby,
0 entered the seance rooms. With Mr. Adshead, he carefully examined
jji the rooms and cabinet, and he found everything as left the day before,
in He then shut and fastened the door of the cabinet, so that the space was
j) j entirely enclosed. At 6.30 the medium arrived and entered the room ad-
j j j joiningthe seancexoom. When in the room, he (thelecturer) requested Mr.
j( j Adshead to join him, and observe the medium to undress and redress in
jw dark clothes, which he had provided. The medium stripped himself
jjj absolutely naked, and all his clothing was removed. He furnished him
i j with a dark striped shirt, a pair of dark brown stockings, a pair of black
jji trousers, and his own topcoat, which was blue and lined with black silk,
j j He had not a light or white article of any kind on his person. He led
j( j the medium, thus dressed, to the cabinet, and placed him upon a black
i j j sofa cushion, with his head upon a black sofa pillow. Those present sat
iji in a good light for about thirty minutes, after which the light was re-
ju duced to dimness, and a figure, fully draped in white, about four feet
j j high, came from the cabinet and moved about the room. It took up a
i) i pair of scissors he had placed on the floor at his feet, and cut from its
j < j garment a piece about five inches by one and a-half inches, which it
jjs gave to Mr. M who sat next him. This piece they afterwards ex-
jjj amined, and found it to be very fine lawn. The figure then retired
j j into the cabinet, and reappeared, walking or rather gliding around the
;jj entire circle of sitters, touching their hands with cool, small fingers,
j j I It also placed its garment on the hands of the sitters, and rubbed it
jy across them. It had the feeling of soft, fine cambric. After that, the
j jj figure retired. This form was succeeded by two forms at the same time,
j) j one being a tall female figure, about five feet four inches high, and
jjl the other a smaller and more slender figure, about four feet four
ijj inches high. They followed each other out of the cabinet, the smaller
I figure leading, and they stood one foot apart from each other. The
latter figure placed its arm on the smaller figure, stooping towards it,
and audibly kissed it. These two figures frequently retired and re¬
appeared, and finally they came out into the centre of the room within
four feet of the sitters, and stood apart from each other. They gradually
approached each other and apparently coalesced, and again separated
and retired, like the Scin Laeca, partially vanishing as they retired.
After these figures had entered the cabinet, the chair, which stood
within three feet of the entrance, was drawn partially within the
door of the recess. On the chair had been placed paper and pencil.
A lady who was present rested her right hand on the top rail of the
chair, and immediately the pencil, apparently without being held by
any possible hand, wrote a letter to a gentleman in London, which
letter he (Mr. Barkas) had that day forwarded to the gentleman for
whom it was written. Shortly after this writing phenomenon the light
of the room was turned fully on, and the medium emerged from the
cabinet dressed exactly as he was dressed at the time of his entrance.
There were present two ladies and seven gentlemen. All would, if
required, authenticate the statement he had made.”
T. P. Barkas, F.G.S.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Mr. Barkas has contributed an excellent letter to the West Cumber¬
land Times about Miss Wood’s mediumship.
Sir Henry Morgan.—In All the Year Round, March 4th, 1876, in
an article headed “ Remarkable Adventures,” there is a short biography
of Sir Henry Morgan, whose portrait the author had before him, and
which he thus describes:—“ It is the image of a bluff cavalier, a square
head with hair parted in the midst, falling in long love curls over the
shoulders, a long straight nose, large eyes set wide apart, a well-cut
upper, and a thick, heavy, sensual under lip. A moustache curled up¬
wards gives a jaunty expression to an otherwise heavy-looking counte¬
nance, resting on a square-cut jowl and double chin. Altogether it is a
face of power: not delicate, not sympathetic, not intellectual, but simply
strong, resolute, and steadfast. The background is appropriately filled
in with a sketch of a burning town and a sinking fleet.” This account
of the great pirate informs us that he was left, in 1680, in Jamaica as
deputy-governor, by Lord Carlisle, when he signalised his reign by
hanging eveiy buccaneer he could catch. It would be interesting to see
this picture, in order to judge whether there is any resemblance between
John King and the man he says he was.
j ! ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
jjl W. Robinson.—You have not added your address to your letter, and it is
j j j necessary that you should do so to authenticate the case to the public.
j(j E. W. B., Milwaukee, U.S.A.—We have sent your letter about the money order
jjj to Mr. Allen. Call the attention of Mr. John Warr, of Milwaukee, to your
i j j communication.
jjj D.—Portions of the other doggerel were bad enough, but when, in addition to
iji faulty metre, there are such would-be rhymes, as “ subject ” and “ about it,”
jjl also “questions” and “incorporations,” nobody has much to gain by
in publication.
April 21, 1876
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALK AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT BUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in 'Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
footfalls on the boundary of another
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, * by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given, fis.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
wbich the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychicl Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions." 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatoiogy; Miracles
and Science; the Spirit, and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
ana Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatoiogy: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opiniini that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made;by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala," published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. (id. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through,
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM..MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. Gd. "•
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration¬
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the bistory of bis subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Cd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6S.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINFS OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 0d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s..
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” . (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . , . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . ' . .76
The Teacher,: „ II. „ ; . , Mj M .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land • . ... .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . ■ . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . . 3 .6
Harbinger of Health . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . , .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fraits of Crime . . 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . 2 6
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . , . .. 3 0
Morning Lectures . . . . , . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spirituaiist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . ... 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms v(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
■ China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Ax.-oo T TJinsT. svt* A vr,IWvivi 4-1.,. rin,   v.,.. »,■. /\aa   e r\
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by'James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (aileged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . * 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . ... . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . ; . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS
Special edition for Schools • , , • 10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby; 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A usefiil Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation oCSpiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d..
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. ■ By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE ? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. B. T.
Hallock. 2s.
y
THE SPIRITUAL! ST.
April 21, 1876,
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In allir.Aca with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
17. Q F HT7 XT T
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
rister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
COUNCIL:
Mrs. C. Ada Ely ton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasures’:—Mr. Thomas Button.
Rooms .-—74, Navamno-eoad, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus. '
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenti ated
taits affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at.7.45 p,m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members, of , similar Associations which reciprocate ' similar
privilege. Strangers can lonly be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the .first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The. last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
toXspecial seances with professional media, lectures^ discussions,
reading of papers, or.narratiou of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the.privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to; the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked,Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects.-All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873. are the following., viz.:
To aid students.and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as; Spiritual, pr. Psychic :£to assist in giving
publicity to.the results of.such researches r"to. afford, information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical factsVespecting Spiritualism.”
All communications„te be addressed to the Honoraryi gecretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.- A
stamped addressed 'envelope should be enclosed in all dfetters re¬
quiring replies. Copies oft the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to .form spirit, circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary MembershipAnnual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership;—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE-DOTfiN. -Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wdnderful experiences Of - the author, who is pecu-
iarly gifted as a trance medium and-public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rythmic beauty, grandeur, and-imagery of his produc¬
tions in1 earth-life; The_ Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of .spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Oolby and Rich. London Spirit-
ualist Office, 38, GreatRussell-street. ' '
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes' hOw so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bemard-
villas, Upper Norwood.   
EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and.punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, W.O. ■ '  
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
P R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A.review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, 6$d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ESMERISM, ELECTRO-BIOLOGY,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media. .
How to produce SLEEP in any one at will.
DR. MOSES R1GG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granyille-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.-
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE:
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy. ‘
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A, 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn. Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln'srinn-flelds.
A. A. Watts, Esq., Ill), Lansdowne-foad, Notting-hill, W.
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, ‘Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park. I
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wfison, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall. Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs.'Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thoma@ Hayle, Esq.,-M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
ThoinaS,Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixou, Esq., M.D.. 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W.'H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H- Gtledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W/C: Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
’ Cromwell P.sVarley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
B buildings, E.C.
The Hon. Jv O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
PdrtugaL Iftf Rue:Kepler, Paris, t C
Hay Nisbet, Esq.,'219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-sqdare.
John-JLamont,' Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamingtou-road-villas, Westboume-
park.
Andrew Glendihning, Esq., 4, Castledine-road, Anerly, S.E.
WfJ^Williamg, Esq., .Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
.'.Subscriptions will be received and duly acknowledged by
the Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq.,1 1, Hereford-square,
South Kensington; or by the Hon. Secretary, A. Joy, Esq.,
Junior United Service Club, St. James’s, S.W.
BRITISH NATIONAL “ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and. Scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms! One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing, in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained thtough any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Rooms suitable for the purposes may be hired on moderate
terms for seances, with cabinet, &c., and.also for committee or
other meetings. •
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and Foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed, and post-office orders
made payable, to the resident secretary, Miss Emily Kisling-
bury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, white in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London.
THE AMERICAN spiritual magazine.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister for over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrammeled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
It contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-; treet,
London, W.C.
HE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
/OF THE HUMAN MIND ; A.Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can calLto mind few books fit to be its
fel\ow8."—Athenxum. “It' contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one.of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—uosinopoZitaw.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, hand'sofiiely bound, price 3s. 6d.
TPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
JL PLIFIED BY THE MAN'JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist! Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
-The work is also published ih nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
- ‘ THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
th^e works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, AveMaria-lane, London, E.O.
. First EcUtion.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size.of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sate at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
ae this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persona
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
YALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five ShUlingsper inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks' time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
Alj, communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury,'London, W.O.
In Two Vote., 8vo, cloth, price 21s.
PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE ON THE
NATURE AND CONSTITUTION OF MAN. By
Georgs Haeeis, LL.D., F.S.A., Vice-President of the Psy¬
chological Society and of the Anthropological Institute, and
author of “ The Theory of the Arts,” “ Civilisation considered
as a Science,” &c. This work embraces a comprehensive and
complete survey of the nature and constitution of man,
physical, moral, and intellectual, exhibiting moreover the
mutual connection and dependence of each branch. Topics
connected with the spiritual being, and the leading opinions
on this subject, including the nature, essence, properties, and
mode of operation, of the soul; the alliance between matter
and spirit; reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity
are here discussed; and a netY theory is propounded of our
intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution, mode
of action, discipline, and cultivation Of the mental faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the topics here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, phy¬
siology, and natural history, have been in correspondence
with, and have been consulted by the author, by several of
whom notes of much interest and value, on different important
controverted points, have been contributed.
London: G. Bell <k Sons, York-street, Covent-garden. 1876.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail byj Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidge & Co., at the
Holborh Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
