A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREff Of THE 3GIE]MCE /.ND ETHICg OF fPI^ITUyVXHfM.
No. 4.—Yol. I LONDON : FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1869. pSceisSeepeSe!8lltly‘
THE TESTIMONY OP A SPIRIT.
Ok Friday, December 17tb, at a seance beld at tbe
Spiritual Library, and reported in another column, a
spirit gave the following communication :—
If Friends, I am a stranger among you. I was born
of religious parents—of parents really and truly religious
and good, acting up to the light which they had Re¬
ceived. I was taught that Grod chastens those whom
He loves, and I was chastened many, many times, and
each stroke of the rod I esteemed as a blessing. Gene¬
rally, I said, with my lips, ‘ Lord, I thank thee for my
chastening,’ but in the inmost recesses of my soul a
cry arose, ‘ Unjust! unjust! Why should I be punished
thus ?’ Years rolled on, and I became the wife of one
I loved and respected; we were both of us regular
attendants at a place of worship, and week by week I
I tried to draw nearer to the throne of mercy. Soon
we were blessed with a little blue-eyed daughter, whom
I loved most dearly, yet but five summers rolled over
'her pretty little head, when the angel of death called
her away. Friends counselled and prayed, but she had
gone to heaven, and they told me that ‘it was a mercy,’
that ‘ it was loving of God to call her from this sinful
world.’ Outside I was calm, but what a sea was raging
within, to hear them say so calmly and coldly, ‘ It is
loving of God to take her away! ’ My heart rebelled
though my lips were silent; I struggled against what I
thought was the devil, but which I now know to have
been my better nature. Again years rolled on, and a
son was bom. He was a wilful boy and wayward, and
as he grew up to be a young man he became worse;
he proved to be what those in earth life call ‘ a curse ’
in all his acts. His father and mother could not reclaim
him; religion had no charms for him ; he could see no
beauty in the Atonement, and said, ‘ I will trouble no
Saviour with my sins, but be responsible for my own
deeds.’ This led him into company I abhorred. Then
my husband passed away, but still it was, i Thy will be
done.’ Oh, the loneliness of the long winter months,
with no kind husband with endearing attentions and
loving words. Then I prayed, and asked for courage
and hope. My life, as I now see, was a continual war
between my inner nature and my outer. My son went
abroad, sickened, and died. The news came home.
Like a stone I sat; all life seemed to have deserted my
frame; I neither moved nor stirred ; I merely thought.
My other faculties were dead. I was pointed to my
religion and told that there I could get happiness and
hope, and should at last sit on the right hand of the
throne. . But where was my son ? Friends held back
what they would say, but the words rose in their minds
like the whisper of a hissing serpent—‘ He is gone, we
hope, to heaven; but, we fear, to hell.’ Worse, worse,
and worse. Disease came, and death changed all. I re¬
covered consciousness on the shores of the other life; I
saw my husband, daughter, and son, so bright and
glorious—the face of my son shone like a star from
heaven, and I was happy under his love. Still I could
not understand how or where I was. I asked why they
tarried on the way to God. My husband said, ‘ This is
our home.’ I said, ‘ Shall we never see the Saviour?’
He replied, 11 cannot say; I have never seen Him; I
have heard His precepts in spirit life, and I do not care
to see him, for I have His precepts, and they are as
good as His presence.’ ‘ But why is our son here ?
They told me that he had gone to perdition.’ ‘ Those
words hastened thy departure; but see, he is here ! It
is not a dream; it is real. You are a spirit—an
“ angel” so-called; all around you is real, even as you
are real.’ I replied, ‘ As God has been so good, so
loving, surely He will extend the same clemency to
all?’ My husband said, ‘ True, it is so. All will be
happy, and the fearful place the Church tells you about
has no existence beyond their fevered imaginations.
This bright and beautiful place is the inheritance of all
God’s children.’ Then, I said, with both my heart' and
my lips, ‘ Lord, be praised! ’ and from that moment I
began to worship God in spirit and in truth. I trust
that you will all be the happier for this ray of truth de¬
scending from above; I hope that the history I have
related to you will never find its parallel, and that the
way of people through life will not be so full of thorns
as mine was. Love the truth. It is the brightest
jewel in the treasury of the Deity. Friends, having
passed through the narrow influences of an earthly life,
I here tell you the truth. I find that creeds and dogmas
have little influence for good on the spirit life; it is by
actions that we know each other. Your thoughts and
actions here govern your state upon entering spirit life; if
you have been good andnoblehere, you will find the home
for the good and noble awaiting you on the other side;
if you were not good and noble, you cannot at first pass
into that state, as it would be unnatural, and it is
only by patient working that you will rise to gain
wisdom.”
In answer to questions, the spirit said that her name
was Catherine Plunkett, and that she “ died ” five years
ago, at Lee, in Kent. The wayward nature of the son
born of such quiet parents, she had recently discovered
to be hereditary; it came from his grandmother on his
mother’s side, and the conditions were such that the
nature reappeared in the boy. He had entered the
same state of life as herself, because he had been truer
to his inner nature than she had, and had not artificially
fettered himself with creeds and dogmas.
TESTIMONY OF A NON-SPIRITUALIST.
The following is an extract from a theological book,
just published, called Teachings of Experience,* an
autobiography, by the Rev. Joseph Barker :—
“ The most credible testimony in the world was
utterly powerless, so far as things spiritual were con¬
cerned. And when the parties, whose patience I tried
by my measureless incredulity, entreated me to visit
some celebrated medium, that I might see and judge
for myself, I paid not the least regard to their entreaties.
I was wiser in my own conceit than all the believers on
earth.
“ At length, to please a particular friend of mine in
Philadelphia, I visited a medium, called Dr. Redman.
It was said that the proofs which he gave of the exist¬
ence and powers of departed spirits were such as no
one could resist. My friend and his family had
visited this medium, and had seen things which to
them seemed utterly unaccountable, except on the
supposition that they were the work of disembodied
spirits.
“ When I entered Dr. Redman’s room, he gave me
eight small .pieces of paper, about an inch wide and
two inches long, and told me to take them aside, where
no one could see me, and write on them the names of
such of my departed friends as I might think fit, and
then wrap them up like pellets, and bring them to him.
I took the papers, and wrote on seven of them the
names of my father and mother, my eldest and my
yokingest brothers, a "sister, a sister-in-law, and an
aunt, one name on each, and one I left blank. , I
retired to a corner to do the writing, where there was
neither glass nor window, and I was so careful not to
give anyone a chance of knowing what I wrote, that I
wrote with a short pencil, so that even the motion of the
top of my pencil could not be seen. I was, besides, en¬
tirely alone in that part of the room, with my face to
the dark wall. The bits of paper which the medium
had given me were soft, so that I had no difficulty in
rolling them into round pellets, about the size of small
peas. I rolled them up, and could no more have told
which was blank and which was written on, nor which,
among the seven I had written on, contained the name
of any one of my friends, and which the names of the
rest, than I can tell at this moment what is taking
place in the remotest orbs of heaven. Having rolled
up the papers as described, I laid them on a round
table, about three feet broad. I laid on the table at
the same time a letter, wrapped up, but not sealed,
written to my father, but with no address outside. I
also laid down a few loose leaves of note-paper. The
medium sat on one side the table, and I sat on the other;
the pellets of paper and the letter lay between us. "We
had not sat over a minute, I think, when there came
very lively raps on the table, and the medium seemed
excited. He seized a pencil, and wrote on the outside
of my letter, wrong side up, and from right to left, so
that what he wrote lay right for me to read, these
words: ‘ I came in with you, but you neither saw me
nor felt me. William Barker.’ And immediately
he seized me by the hand, and shook hands with
me.
“ This rather startled me. I felt very strange. For
William BarTcer was the name of my youngest brother,
* London: James Beveridge, Fullwood’s-rents, High Holbora, W.C.
who had died in Ohio some two or three years before.
I never named him, I believe, in Philadelphia, and I
have no reason to suppose that any one in the city was
aware that I had ever had such a brother, much less
that he was dead. I did not tell the medium that
the name that he had written was the name of a
brother of mine; but I asked, ‘ Is the name of this
person among those written in the paper pellets on the
table ? ’
“ The answer was instantly given by three loud raps,
‘ Yes.’
“ I asked, ‘ Can he select the paper containing his
name ?’
“ The answer, given as before, was | Yes.’
“ The medium then took up first one of the paper
pellets and then another, laying them down again, till
he came to the fifth, which he handed to me. I opened
it out, and it contained my brother’s name. I was
startled again, and felt very strange. I asked, ‘ Will
the person whose name is on this paper answer me
some questions?’
“ The answer was, ‘ Yes.’
“ I then took part of my note-paper, and with my left
hand on edge, and the top of my short pencil concealed,
I wrote, ‘ Where d ,’ intending to write, ‘ Where
did you dieV " But as soon as I had written ‘ Where
d ,’ the medium reached over my hand and wrote,
upside down, and backwards way, as before,—
“ ‘ Put down a number of places and I will tell
you’
“ Thus answering my question before I had had time
to ask it in writing.
“ I then wrote down a list of places, four in all, and
pointed to each separately with my pencil, expecting
raps when I touched the right one; but no raps
came.
“ The medium then said, ‘ Write down a few more.’
I then discovered that I had not, at first, written down
the place where my brother died: so I wrote down two
more places, the first of the two being the place where
he died. The list then stood thus: Salem, Leeds,
Ravenna, Akron, Cuyahoga Falls, Few York.
“ The medium then took his pencil, and moved it
between the different names, till he came to Cuyahoga
Falls, which he scratched out. That was the name of
the place where he died.
“ I then wrote a number of other questions, in no case
giving the medium any chance of knowing what I
wrote by any ordinary means, and in every case he
answered the questions in writing as he had done
before; and in every case but one the answers were
such as to show, both that the answerer knew what
questions I had asked, and was acquainted with the
matters to which they had referred.
“ When I had asked some ten or a dozen questions,
the medium said, ‘ There is a female spirit wishes to
communicate with you.’
‘ Is her name among those on the table ? ’ I asked.
“ The answer, in three raps, was, ‘ Yes,’
“ | Can she select the paper containing her name ? ’ I
asked.
“ The answer again was, ‘ Yes.’
“ The medium then took up one of the paper pellets,
and put it down; then took up and put down
a second; and then took up a third and handed it
to me.
“ I was just preparing to undo it, to look for the name,
when the medium reached over as before, and wrote on
a leaf of my note paper—
“ ‘ It is my name. Elizabeth Barker.’
And the moment he had written it, he stretched out
his hand, smiling, and shook hands with me again.
Whether it really was so or not, I will not say, but his
smile seemed the smile of my mother, and the expression
of his face was the old expression of my mother’s face;
and when he shook hands with me, he drew his hand
away in the manner in which my mother had always
drawn away her hand. The tears started into my eyes,
and my flesh seemed to creep on my bones. I felt
stranger than ever. I opened the paper, and it was
my mother’s name : Elizabeth Barker. I asked a
number of questions as before, and received appropriate
answers.
But I had seen enough. I felt no desire to multi¬
ply experiments. So I came away—-sober, sad, and
thoughtful.
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 31, 1869.
EYIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM.
In Plato’s Divine and moral works, subject, “ Theages”
or “ Wisdom,” Socrates tells Theages—“ I have had by
the favour of God, ever since I was born, a genius that
always accompanies and governs me. This genius is a
voice which, whenever it speaks to me, always diverts
me from what I have a mind to do,” and much more to
the same effect. Socrates boldly told the truth, and for
exposing the superstition of the day was killed, but not
until he had demonstrated, on the morning of his exe¬
cution, the immortality of the soul.
Joan of Arc, who led the French successfully against
our soldiers, was burnt to death, not because the English
were beaten, but because she declared that she was in¬
structed by a voice from an unseen intelligence which
she called “ God,” and as her conscience would not
allow her to recant she was burnt, and as the flames
approached her she exclaimed, “ Yes, my voices were
from God! ”
Galileo, who taught that the earth rotated on its
axis and revolved around the sun, only saved his life by
going down on his knees and recanting.
These are sufficient warnings of the state of public
opinion respecting those who have the courage to avow
a knowledge of facts, dissonant with popular prejudices.
Wesley, the founder of a religion bearing his name,
was a witness of the spiritual phenomena called raps,
which occurred in a marked manner in his own family,
one or more of whom were rapping media. All the
details are perfectly authenticated by documents written
and signed upon the spot, and many of the facts will be
found in Southey’s Life of Wesley. Swedenborg, again,
a scientific writer of no small power, had most remark¬
able experiences as a conscious clairvoyant.
In the case of the Seeress of Prevorst many instances
are given, attested by declarations of medical men and
state functionaries, of remarkable phenomena similar to
many I have personally witnessed. Dale Owen’s list of
cases in his Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World
are well worth perusal.
The Indian Government, some years since, caused an
official inquiry to be made into the reality of certain
mesmeric phenomena among the natives, and the result
of the inquiry confirmed the truth of the facts of mes¬
merism. Notwithstanding all these and many other
existing records of unusually well-authenticated cases,
it is surprising how few people in this country have at¬
tempted to inquire into or know anything about the
subject. I know many medical men who, when the
study-door is locked, freely and earnestly discuss these
matters, and tell their own experiences, but at the same
time confess that they dare not open their mouths to
others, fearing the fate of Dr. Elliotson, who lost a
practice of thousands a year for telling the truth.—
Farley.
Agassi/ on Education.—At the close of the exercises of
the Association of Science, which held its convention at
Salem, U.S., recently, a compliment having been paid by
one of the speakers to Mr. George Peabody, as the founder
and patron of the Academy of Science which bears his
name, Professor Agassiz rose and delivered himself of some
remarks on the general subject of scientific education and
its tendencies, which deserve to be repeated in their tenor in
this place. He told the people of Salem that.they scarcely
realised what embryo they were trying to rear in their
academy, nor what was to be the result of its final intel¬
lectual growth. Its influence over the community, he said,
could not fail to be wide. In regard to the plan of in¬
struction which had been adopted, he thought he could de¬
tect in it something which would dispel from the minds of
the community certain obstructions to the truth concerniug
matters in which we are all Interested — our future eternal
life—but of which he said we now scarcely dared to speak,
because what we should have to say might go contrary to
certain established doctrines and to certain long-cherished
convictions with which the community was imbued, holding
them as sacred, when well informed men knew better.
And he further said, what intelligent Spiritualists have long
held, that the teaching which scientific institutions were to
furnish, would tend to bring about anew era in that system
of popular education of which they were all so proud, but
which at present was merely a system of routine teaching,
in comparison to that rational study of Nature which ele¬
mentary education might become. It is a timely admission
and from the foremost of our scientific men.—Banner of Light
The Royal Institution.—The Royal Institution session
began last Tuesday afternoon, when Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S.,
delivered the first of a course of six lectures upon “ Light,”
adapted to a juvenile auditory. The theatre of the Institution
was full to overflowing, so that many were unable to obtain
seats. Among the lectures to be delivered this session, con¬
nected with man and his development, are six by Professor
Humphry, M.D., F.R.S., on “ The Architecture of the Human
Body ; ” Tuesdays January 18th to February 22nd. Two lec¬
tures on “ Plant Life as Contrasted with that of Animals,” by
Dr. Masters, F.L.S.; Tuesdays March 1st and 8th. Four
lectures by Professor Rolleston, M.D., F.R.S., on “ Deductions
from the Comparative Anatomy of the Nervous System,”
Tuesdays March 15th to April 5th. Four lectures on “The
Science of Religion,” by Professor Max Muller, M.A., LL.D.,
Saturdays February 19th to March 12th. Four , lectures on
“ The Principles of Moral and Political Philosophy,” by Pro¬
fessor Blackie, Tuesdays April 26th to May 17th. Among the
lectures delivered during past sessions at the Royal Institution,
there were two in which the subject of Spiritualism was
largely introduced. One of these lectures was by Mr. E. B.
Tylor, on “ The Survival of Savage Thought in Modern Civi¬
lisation,” and the other was by Dr. Carpenter, Vice-President
of the Royal Society, on “ The Unconscious Action of the
Brain.” The president of the Royal Institution is Sir Henry
Holland, Bart., F.R.S.
Ifteprts of JEmings.
[When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this Journal, non-
Spiritualists should understand that spirits out of the body are wise or
foolish, truthful or untruthful, just the same as spirits in the body. More¬
over, they are but individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of
a spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by comparing the state¬
ments of many spirits, it may in time be possible to discover in what points
they agree, and to sift out the unreliable communications. Many spirits
cannot see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some of them
are thus in different states of life, it does not follow that contradictory
messages are therefore untruthful. Spirits are of different religions, conse-
sequentiy their teachings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this journal to report
facts, so we are in no way responsible for the religions, scientific, or any other
teachings given by individual spirits,]
SEANCES AT THE SPIRITUAL LIBRARY.
SHEISra MEDIUMSHIP—ME. CLEGrGr OP YOBK—SOMNAMBULISM—DISTURBING
INPLUBNOES AT OIROLKS—PURGATORY—BODY, SOUL, AND SPIRIT—PRO¬
GRESSION IN THE ANIMAL WORLD — SPIRITUAL COMMUNICATIONS — AN
EARTH-BOUND SPIRIT—EARTHLY IMPEDIMENTS TO DEVELOPMENT—THE
FORMATION OP THE SPIRIT WORLDS—GRINDSTONES—AUDIBLE SPIRIT
VOICES—DEPARTED FRIENDS.'
On Friday evening, December 17th, at eight o’clock, the
ordinary weekly seance was held at the Spiritual Library, 15,
Southampton-row, High Holborn, W.C., under the medium-
ship of Mr. J. J. Morse. Rather more than twenty ladies and
gentlemen were present.
Mr. Mouse, who at times is a seeing medium, suddenly
became fixed and rigid, and said that he saw a rough and
angry sea, with a steamer coming towards him, which all at
once tilted up, and went down. No explanation of the cir¬
cumstance was given, and the medium said that the sight had
made him feel nervous.
A spirit then attempted to obtain control of the medium in
order to speak, but failed, and then by writing mediumship
said that she was Mrs. E. Farnham.
Another spirit then obtained control of the medium, who
with great gravity and deliberation began rubbing his knees
and legs with his hands. He said that when in earth-life he
was troubled with rheumatics, and felt them very badly when
thus coming back through a medium ; the pains would sub¬
side presently, and then he would speak.
Mr. Burns—Why don’t you take a Turkish bath? Accord¬
ing to some people you ought to hare plenty of heat to prepare
one, in your world. (Laughter).
The spirit said that those who thought so had the heat in
their own brains; he knew that many people believed that
there was plenty of heat in the regions fie came from, and as
he himself held the same opinions while on the earth, the
stone thrown at random by Mr. Burns had hit rather fiard.
Still, he always thought that he should not go to the hot regions
himself, because he had been purified by suffering; now he
felt all his pains coming back again, fiecause being in an
earthly body again brought back his old ideas, and the thought
of the spirit acts upon the instrument it uses. It is on enter¬
ing and leaving the medium that the pains are always worst,
but he had been told by old hands at speaking through
mediums, that in time such effects would wear off ; he had
been in attendance, like many other spirits, at previous
stances, anxious to come before public, and this was the first
opportunity he had had of doing so ; not that he got anything
himself for speaking to them, but fie came for the purpose of
doing good to those present. He said that when he first woke
up after passing through the dying process he found himself
neither in heaven, hell, earth, or anywhere else, but passing
through space witfi great velocity, with two spirit gentlemen,
one on each side of him, supporting him by tfie arms. He
was very much startled, but directly afterwards felt “Oh,
I’m all right. It’ll be all right presently,” so waited pa¬
tiently to see what would be the end of it. Soon they came
in sight of a very beautiful island, with the ocean breaking
against its rocks, and taking him to a large house near the
shore, they told fiim that he would have to stop there till his
mind became all right. “ Oh !” said he in reply, “then I
don’t care how long my mind takes to get right.” But when'
left to himself he began to think differently, and to remember
very clearly some awkward little acts in earth-life which he
had committed “ on the quiet,” for nobody took any notice Of
what the “rheumaticky old man” said or did. He found
that these thoughts gave him great pain, and made him very
uncomfortable. Then one of the gentlemen—his teacher and
guardian spirit—asked him to come with him to revisit the
earth once more. He replied that he would rather stop where
he was, “ besides, you know, my mind’s not right yet.” His
teacher told him that that was precisely why it was
necessary for him to return to earth, and added that he could
bring his present residence with him. He laughed, and
said that “ he must be pretty strong to be able to do that,”
but strange to say, he found the assertion true, and that fie
brought his residence with him in his mind.* However, he
returned with a party of spirits, and found that some of tfiem
began to work hard at influencing the minds of individuals
upon earth who harboured bad feelings, and in this way they
in time undid the evil they themselves had committed. But
it is slow and tiresome work—very much against the grain.
Although he did not wish it, he felt that fie must do the
same. He met a friend he had injured, andhad to trace out how
far the injury extended ; it was astonishing how many people,
in addition to the one who directly receives the injury, suffer
from it; a bad act is like a stone dropped into the water, for
it throws out circles in all directions, and very hard and slow
work it is for spirits to undo the evil they have committed.
They cannot feel at ease till it is done. The rheumatics
were so bad he could not stand it any longer, so must leave
the medium. His name was Walter Arthur Clegg.
What was your occupation, and where did you lire ?
Mr. Clegg—He wants to know the occupation of the
rheumaticky old man 1 (Laughter.) Well, I was a carter at
York, and died about nine years ago.
Mr. Mouse then woke up, and complained of feeling pains
all over his body.
The next spirit gave the name of Catherine Plunkett, and
said that she died about five years ago, at Lee, in Kent. Her
narrative is printed on another page.
Tien Sien Tie, the guardian spirit of Mr. Morse, took pos¬
session of the medium while the company were speaking
about the possibility of somnambulic phenomena being ade¬
quate to explain away the spiritual origin of the manifesta¬
tions. Tien then said that by putting leading questions to
somnambulists it is possible to lead them on, and to make
them bring out things which are in the mind of the ques¬
tioner, but that where there is an external intelligence at
work the plan will fail, although w ith a weak, imperfectly de-
* Some German and English metaphysicians have recently raised the
question “ Is there an external world ?” and have tried to prove that what
are supposed to he external phenomena, are merely mental impressions.—
Ed.
veloped medium it might be difficult at times to tell the dif¬
ference between spiritual and somnambulic control.
Mr. Burns—Once I made a journey of twelve miles to a
stance in Yorkshire, thinking upon one subject all the way,
and when 1 reached the circle the medium., a young man, ut¬
tered all my previous thoughts, and then carried on the subject
much further. How do you explain that ?
Tien Sien Tie said that the mind of Mr. Burns might have
been influenced by a spirit, who afterwards gave out the
thoughts through the medium, and then pursued the subject
further. In this case the mind of the medium was probably
negative to the mind of Mr. Burns, and the thoughts of the
latter might to some extent, have spoilt the integrity of the
remarks by the communicating spirit.
Mr. Burns—Once I entered a room where a circle was
sitting, so quietly that those present neither saw nor heard me,
yet at once distinctly felt my presence. How was that ?
Tien Sien Tie said that “ the sphere ” had probably been
formed round the circle by the spirits, and Mr. Burns being
positive to members of the circle, they all felt his influence
when he entered. Had he been negative, probably only one
or two of the greatest sensitives present would have felt his
entrance. In all circles where weak physical manifestations
are obtained, the presence of persons of a sceptical or positive
nature often Overpowers the control of the presiding intelli¬
gence.
Mr. Burns -I hare heard of circles where one of the persons
present could, by his will, cause the table tn move.
Tien Sien Tie said that that could only be where the pre¬
siding spirit had not had sufficient experience in his work,
and because of this want of knowledge the will of the person
in the body acted upon the link formed by the presiding in¬
telligence.
How do you know that you, and the spirits with you, are not
in an intermediate state of life, a/waiting the final judgment?
Tien Sien Tie said that he could see notfiing in his sphere
of life to warrant such an opinion. He saw around him
Christians of all denominations, as well as people of other re¬
ligions, and countries, and planets. He found that, in their
present state of existence, they were all improving in wisdom
and love, and growing in goodness and happiness. There
would be no use in being permitted to increase thus in love
and wisdom were they simply waiting for hell and the judg¬
ment day.
What is the difference between the soul, the spirit, and the
body ?
Tien Sien Tie said that the soul is the garment of tbespirit,
and the spirit cannot lose its soul, which is its outer conscious¬
ness. The persons in the room had each of them a physical
organisation, and permeating the whole of it was a “ life prin¬
ciple,” which continuously draws around it and spiritualises
what it requires from tfie physical nature. At death, the
physical body is no longer required, but the spiritualised par¬
ticles within ascend upwards in a bright golden shower; a
principle of elective affinity runs through these particles, so
that each one goes to its proper place, and a new body is
formed, finer and rarer than fiis hearers could comprehend.
This body is the soul, and it is animated by the spirit of the
Deity.
Is the spirit body composed of carbon, phosphorus, iron, and
such-like substances ?
Tien Sien Tie said that all chemical substances contain
within them an essential life, which is spirit, and is always
subject to sublimation, the lower continually giving birth to
something of a higher order. Those particles containing the
essential life, form the spirit body. The spirit world is a
natural world—as natural as the one on wfiich his hearers
lived.
Bo stones and minerals grow ?
Yes. All things improve and live, and clairvoyant sensitives
are often affected by the action going on in minerals and
stones.
Boes thought of a departed friend reach and influence that
friend in the spirit world ?
Yes.
Can you tell us the nature of animal life ?
Tien Sien Tie said that the development of all forms of life
is progressive. The formation of the brain of animals is not
so complete as in man, and when the change comes the
animal dies, and gives out its as yet unindividualised spirit
which floats out into the ocean of spirit. Men breathe the
unseen spirit life of material essences. The body of the dying
animal helped to give birth to a higher form of vegetable life
which, again, eliminated a higher form of animal life. When
the ultimate of materiality was reached, the spirit gained
power, and became master of matter, so as to be afile to control
it progressively. Step by step the brain was elaborated. The
first men were not individualised spirits, but were animals,
their brain being so small. In the slow course of time, spirit
gained [complete mastery over matter, and man became a
living soul—the breath of life was breathed into him, and he
became a living soul for ever. Self-control only begins when
development has reached a certain point.
A re you spirits now communicating with earth according to
a settled plan arranged among yourselves, or are the communi¬
cations given by individual spirits without any settled system ?
Tien Sien Tie—We are acting by a settled plan known to
very high spirits, but, as in earth life, we often obey laws
without knowing the existence of those laws, or whence they
come.
How far are you from the medium ?
Tien Sien Tie—I am six feet above the roof of the house in
which you meet, and am acting upon the brain of the medium,
who gives forth my thoughts, clothed in his own words. The
spirit then exhorted those present to improve their minds, to
grow in wisdom, and to study nature, the Divine book of the
Deity. Let them take the simplest flower that grows in the
garden and ask themselves “ Am I not a flower ? Have I not
successively developed, step by step, as this flower has done ?
Do not I also contain a spirit, and may I not become a brighter
and a better being than I am now?” He desired them to
think over these things, and when they felt the happiness
which such thoughts would be certain to bring them, they
should spread that happiness among their friends. He con¬
cluded by saying, “Farewell. Peace be with you.”
On Friday, December 24th, the usual weekly seance was
held at the Spiritual Library, but, it being Christmas eve, only
nine visitors were present. Mr. Morse went into the trance
state, and the first spirit, who gave the name of “ Mary
Willett,” delivered an address, which is printed in another
column.
The next one who came was a plain business man, who
seemed dissatisfied with his state, and gave a very poor
account of himself. His life, he Said, had been orthodox
enough, but, “on reaching the other side, the bank dis¬
honoured the note, when it was presented for payment.” He
Dec. 31, 1869
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
was still wandering about this planet, and wanted very much
to get away from it; he had been taken in once, and would
not believe anything in future till he saw it. When other
spirits told him about the “ spheres,” he should put it down
that they were “ gammoning ” him. He died, he ex¬
pected to go to heaven and play a harp eternally, and when
he found he had not to do so, his being the nature of an india-
rubber ball, he bounded back from the wall of facts, into the
valley of ignorance. There were plenty to teach him, who
wanted him to become as a little child, to learn, and to fit
himself for a higher life ; but when a person hss got old in
particular ideas, it takes long to get right again and it was
this artificial nature which he had to work off. On earth he
was in the habit, at present, of looking about for a medium,
who might be either a duke or a beggar, for he had his choice,
and he could partake of all the pleasures of the medium, see
all that he saw, get the spirit portions of the food he ate, and
could enjoy himself generally. All his education and belief
in life had been superficial, and did not appeal to the inner
man; the body and the clothes believed it, but not the soul
within. Now he went to church sometimes, and when he saw
the minister, he felt inclined to sit on him and extinguish him,
knowing that half the congregation would be very likely to
take the same road that he had taken himself, and it made
him feel very nasty towards the ministers. The worst of it
was, that many of the ministers know about Spiritualism, and
attend seances, but when they get back in the pulpit they are
“ mum they get wheat for themselves, and deal out fire and
brimstone to their flocks. To return to himself—Wasn’t he a
beautiful plant out of the garden of theology ? (Laughter.)
The worst of it was, he had not been allowed to use his
reason ; he was not surrounded on earth by the right con¬
ditions, so the wrong flower had been blown. However, he
was getting better, and went among benevolent people,
through whom he was gaining knowledge.
What was your name, address, and occupation ?
That is too hard upon me. I would not have said so much,
if I had known you were going to ask that. I am not going
to tell you.
After some pressing, he yielded a little to the ladies, and
said his name was Michael Clarke ; he had been a baker, but
would not give his address.
Why don't you go to the higher spirits to gain knowledge ?
If you were fond of chemistry, you would not go to a linen-
draper to be taught. It is no use your going to the spirit
world to learn what ought to have been learnt in the body in
this world ; you cannot rise to a certain spiritual level, until
you have worked up to it; you cannot understand the higher
till you apprehend the lower.
Tien Sien Tie, the guardian spirit of the medium, then
came as usual and said—Good evening, friends. Ton have
seen this evening two opposing types of the development of
the mind. Such an exhibition should carry with it a lesson—
a lesson which I will endeavour to point to your understand¬
ings. There are many well-disposed honest minds that would
have welcomed with open heart and hand our sister who con¬
trolled the medium first, but who would have said to our
brother who came next—“ You have a deal to learn. You had
better learn manners before you come here again.” Now,
Considering all the causes that act around individuals upon
this planet, how charitable we ought to be. Our brother was
placed in conditions not suitable for his spiritual faculty, and
he had a superficial mentality ; the germs of spiritual truth
are not developed. He was born of parents who of themselves
had had no education in earthly things, and who by their
occupation strove hard to sustain their existence, so rose not
above the level of their wants. This was the first cause of
the lack of development. The mind of the child therefore is
not developed and enabled to bring itself to earth’s literature ;
it cannot read, its chance of gaining knowledge from that
source is closed. There are other sources than books, but the
social status of the family still interferes. There is the school
for daily instruction, but the social condition of the parent
makes it a necessity that as soon as the child can carry a mes¬
sage or work with its hands, the child must work to sustain
itself. Yes, but we have another chance ; there is the Sabbath-
school. Still carrying with us the social status of the family,
the child is opposed to religious teaching and rebels against
the Sabbath-school; it is repugnant to the mind of the child,
and often more so to the minds of the parents. There are
good folks who go. about, and would instruct these waifs and
strays of society, and make them good and useful. Yes, they
instruct the child in matters beyond its comprehension ; they
try to force the mind of the child into blossom before its time,
so the child feels a repulsion and will not listen. The spiri¬
tual things lie dormant within the mind; it sees nothing be¬
yond its immediate wants and necessities ; and it would say of
the future—“ When the future comes that will be time enough
to attend to it I must attend to the present, else I starve.”
That condition is carried up through many grades of society.
If right conditions are brought to bear upon an organisation,
it is improved and purified, and the mind can improve itself
and ascend to the limits of our sjrstem. But let the mind be
of the lowest development, it will one day be greater than we
at present believe to be possible. You should all love justice
and wisdom for they are the attributes of the Deity. I am
ready to answer any questions.
Sow is it that though the two spirits mere on earth both
surrounded by the samp hard conditions, one is now so much
in advance of the other ?
Because our sister had naturally a higher spiritual nature,
and shook off many of the influences of unfavourable sur¬
roundings.
Is the spirit world objective or subjective ?
The spirit world is a real objective world, because man
physically is the ultimate of all the developments of matter.
Man contains within himself the elemental life of all forms
and substances ; he may be compared to a “ mill ” grinding
down these particles into a spirit body ; when the change
comes, these particles for the most part escape upwards to
form the free spirit body, but a portion of these particles
remains in the earthly form, which is placed in the ground.
Chemical action dissolves the remains, but the refined ma¬
terial particles (not quite so fine as those which composed the
spirit body) then rise from the ground, and they are too re¬
fined to remain in the atmosphere of the earth. Each atom
thus released, is itself an atom of a particular elemental life.
The stream which thus rises from your planets is immense,
for you know how very many bodies are daily placed in the
ground. Floating upwards, all these particles find their level;
they naturally unite according to their elemental life, and
form the strata of an objective world. The flower particles
are liberated, the tree particles are liberated, and they are
prone to take the same forms as before, but their elemental
life is then of a higher grade, and a further development of
the vegetable kingdom takes place. There is nothing but
external progression for the ultimates of matter.
Do grindstones go to the spirit world ? (Laughter).
The grindstone consists of rock-particles, which at last
crumble into dust. By many. conditions extending over a
long period of time, this dust gets into the soil, and rises into
vegetable life. Then at last it is absorbed by man, and aids
to form the spirit world in the way already stated.
The houses in the spirit world are not the spirits of houses
in this one ?
As the refined elements necessary for houses are in the spirit
world, they are used. The houses are built by spirits with
more extended knowledge and better appliances than you
have here. Bemember, all objective things are at first subjec¬
tive. Before a house is built, the idea of it exists in the brain
of the designer.
Will you give us a little more information about how spirits
produce audible voices.
There are many ways. Sometimes they form a tube out of
the emanations from the medium, and in connection with the
medium, and are able to speak through it. Sometimes, in the
atmosphere of the medium, they are able to make themselves
heard, and are quite unconscious how or why they are audible.
It is necessary that the medium should be very passive, that
the emanations may be given off in a steady uninterrupted
flow.
Do spirits ever produce audible voices by sticking lips on the
front of the tube, and lungs and bellows behind, so as to make
a/n automatic voice ?
Tien Sien Tie (with a smile).—No. Never that I know of.
Such a case never came under my observation. And now, my
friends, I must draw my control of the medium to a close.
Ere I meet you again a season of festivity will have come
and gone. In many homes will be marked a vacant chair,
many a half-suppressed sigh will rise as they gaze in the
vacant corner, and they will pass through life with the sad
remembrance that one of the circle is gone. You are Spirit¬
ualists, and you desire good for humanity, so tell them how
to fill, once again, the vacant seat and the vacant corner.
Stop the sigh of sadness, and turn sorrow to beaming joy and
love, by giving them knowledge of the return of their friends.
Good night.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
CLAIRVOYANCE—SPIRIT MAGNETISM—THE DEITY—JESUS OF NAZARETH—
THE DOUBLE—MEDIUMSHIP—MARTYRDOM—THE FUTURE OF THE PHYSICAL
BODY—BODILY DEFORMITIES—UNDEVELOPED SPIRITS—CAPITAL PUNISH¬
MENT—RESPONSIBILITIES OF JUDGES—SPIRIT POETRY—SPIRIT VOICES—
SEEING MEDIUMSHIP—TABLE MOTIONS WITHOUT jCONTACI WITH HUMAN
BEINGS.
On Thursday, December 16th, a private seance took place
at the residence of Mrs. C. Berry, a well-known Spiritualist.
The medium was Mrs. P. Perrin, of 11, Westmoreland-place,
Southampton-street, Camberwell, S.E., and the other members
of the circle were Mr. G. Perrin, Mrs. A. Cooper, Mrs. George
Oliver, Mr. N. F. T. Daw, and the reporter to this journal.
The medium passed into what was supposed to be the trance
state, and described scenes in the life of a gentleman, begin¬
ning with one of bloodshed and battle. The narrative threw
one of the ladies present into a state of intense excitement.
She said that the medium had accurately described scenes in
the past life of her husband and herself at the antipodes;
that she had gone further, and told her what was probably
taking place at present, and could be verified on the arrival of
an early mail from Australia and New Zealand. She had also
told her of the future. The details are necessarily of a private
nature. The lady and the medium had never met each other
in their lives until a few minutes before the stance began.
A spirit, who gave the name of Mrs. Farnham,* then spoke
through the medium, and said that the preceding remarks
were made by the medium herself, whose spiritual powers had
been temporarily developed, so that she had been able to see
into the past, the present, and the future, and had stated
what she saw in her clairvoyant vision—it was not a spiritual
communication. She (Mrs. Farnham) was glad to see that,
the members of the circle sat to accumulate facts and facts
alone, so if what had already been stated proved to be true in
the end, so much the better for the cause of Spiritualism.
She would not speak much longer, for she knew that physical
manifestations were desired. She was ready to- answer any
questions.
Some physical manifestations require dark/ness. Shall we
ever be able to get them in the light ?
The Spirit—By constant sitting and keeping together you
will get much in the light, but not all. Some things I think
you will never get in the light, for great laws stand against it.
They have been laid down from the foundation, and can never
be altered.
Do you, who speak to us, move tables ?
The Spirit said that she could move a table spiritually, but
not physically.
Please explain the difference between the two.
The Spirit said that she could move it gently to answer
questions, but those spirits who had power to carry it from
place to place, did it by physical force.
Horn do you move tables ?
The Spirit said that tables are moved in many ways.
Sometimes spirit hands are placed over the hands of the
members of the circle, and they can draw the table up ; some¬
times they lift it by concentrating force underneath : some¬
times, also, the power falls from above, looking like light, and
lifts the table. It is a power composed of magnetic forces.
Magnetism as we understand it ?
The Spirit—What is your magnetism ?
The force which makes an iron needle, balanced on a pivot,
swing round to the north.
The Spirit—No. It is totally different’from your magnetic
forces. It is a power I cannot explain, and even to us it is
mysterious. It is given us by the great Creator. I see it used
and use it myself, yet cannot explain it any more than you
can.
Have you ever seen God ?
The Spirit—We' are still in ignorance what is the great
“ I AM,” and have never seen Him, as some on earth say we
have, except in surrounding objects, in landscapes bright and
fair, in the hues of the rainbow, and in the emotions of the
bosom. Thus do we behold God, but in no other way.
Have you ever seen Jesus ?
The Spirit—I have never seen Jesus of Nazareth, but have
heard Him spoken of as a great prophet inspired beyond the
ordinary degree ; a prophet is a medium. This medium has
seen Him three times.
Put He worked-miracles ?
The Spirit—We do not acknowledge miracles ; there are
* Mrs. Famham, an American lady, was the authoress of the tale, “The
Ideal Attained,” which was recently re-puhlished in Human Nature.
During the late American war she spent her time in nursing and tending
sick and wounded soldiers,! and she “died," os the]phrase is, very soon
after the suppression of the rehellion.—Ed.
nothing but natural laws. We know that upon earth there
will again be greater men than Jesus of Nazareth, and why
will men keep on saying that he is higher than others ? Why
ignore the prophets before Him, and the martyrs after Him,
who also laid down their lives for the truth ?
Is Jesus God ?
The Spirit—No.
Is He the principal representative of God?
The Spirit—No. God is so grand that He needs no form
like that of man to represent Himself ; He has stamped Him¬
self and His divinity in His laws. God is not the Trinity
which man, for His own purposes, has set Him forth to be.
Do you consider the Bible to be acev/rate history?
The Spirit—Yes, it is true. It is the prophecy of the past,
the present, and the future, but it is not Divine. Take from
it whatever will do you good.
What is the difference between soul and spirit ?
The Spirit—If your spirit or vital spark once left your
earthly body, it would never return, but the soul might go,
carrying some of your brain power with it, and could then
even move a table at a spirit circle ; this is “ the double ” as
known to you Spiritualists. In such cases the body of the
person who thus acts at a distance, is always in a state of
sleep or stupor.
But while I home been awake I have manifested at a circle.
The Spirit—I, as a spirit, cannot take what you say as a
truth. Another may have been using your name, or you must
have been unconscious.
Mrs. Hardinge has often ma/nifested at circles.
The Spirit—Yes. We know Mrs. Hardinge well. She is
never in her normal state when she is lecturing, and while
the spirits are speaking to English audiences through her
bodily organs, she may be moving tables in America.
Is not Theodore Parker one of her guardian spirits ?
The Spirit—Yes, he is almost always with her, and another
of her gnardians is Pierpoint.
In a general conversation that followed the name of Andrew
Jackson Davis was mentioned.
The Spirit said : Andrew Jackson Davis is a great favourite
with the spirits, but all is not truth he tells ; there is some¬
thing of the medium in every communication you receive
from us. Give fifty pieces of linen to fifty work-girls, let the
linen and the thread be exactly the same, yet every girl will
leave her own impression on her work. So with every
medium. While I talk to you now you have my words hut
the mode of language of the medium ; I cannot take away
the identity of the girl.
Where are you yourself now ?
The Spirit—I am in the medium. Her vital spark is here
[pointing to the space between the right shoulder and the ear.]
Her soul is at home with her babe, but in an instant I can call
back the soul or “ double,” and all will be right again.
Does this tire the medium, ?
The Spirit—No. I could talk to you all night, and in the
morning she would think that she had had a good night’s rest.
The conversation again turned upon the Trinity, and the
spirit said that people would do well to imitate the purity,
innocence, and truth of Jesus.
He died upon the cross.
The Spirit said that he did do so, but "martyrs after him
when brought face to face with the pile refused to be saved
from this worse death, yet Jesus asked that the cup might be
passed from him. Joan of Arc never asked for life. The
cross is not so bad as subjection to the thumbscrew and the
torture, and being allowed to recover to be tortured and re¬
tortured. Spirits kno'tfv, and doctors perhaps can bear witness,
that when a certain quantity of blood has left the body, either
on the cross or elsewhere, all pain ceases, and torture may be
defied. In the new Testament times a priesthood ruled the
people ; an Intelligent Mind saw how priestcraft was deluding
its dupes, and tried to persuade the people not to pin their
faith to another man’s elbow, but to serve God freely and
alone. When the priests saw that their craft was being exposed
by the Nazarene, they thought it time to stop him. When in
their power, he would not deny the truth within him—he had
to lie or to die—so, as a man of truth, he died. Still he very
naturally wished to live, and to go on in his noble work till he
had grown grey in the service of his Great Creator.
Will our bodies rise again?
The Spirit—Not your physical frame. Your bones will
never come together again. Your clay body will manure the
earth, and the trumpet will never wake it up again ; the earth
wants what it lent you for 'a time.
The body may go to feed the fishes.
The Spirit—Well, that is not a pleasant thought for those
who eat fish.
Are ignorant and wise people equal after death?
The Spirit—For a time ignorant people will be cramped in
the next world, till they outgrow the narrow minds you give
your children.
Have deformities of the earthly body an injurious effect upon
the spirit body ?
The Spirit—Those who have deformed bodies here, at first
have undeveloped spirit bodies in the spirit world. Then
comes the question, “ Who will suffer most—the giver or the
receiver?” Parents, by their habits, hand down injuries to
their children, and great will be their remorse hereafter. God
has made His laws perfect; and after planting the tree of
humanity, left man with sufficient freedom to perfect himself;
if you do not act up to the laws of reason in bringing forth
children, that is your fault. If you pollute yourselves, you
cannot possibly have good children.
Some low spirits say they come from spheres lower than this
earth. Is it true ? .
The Spirit—They tell you that, because you in the circle
form a sphere of your own, which looks beautiful to such
spirits, because you are higher than they. When very low
spirits quit the body, they go prowling about the earth, and
they are not good. The drunkard would go to his old haunts,
and act and talk as he did before, though these things would
be to the spirit imaginary. When such spirits wish to rise,,
there are plenty to help them.
What do youthink of capital punishment?
The Spirit—Let your criminals live, but let him not go at
large again who has imbued his hands in his brother’s blood.
Let every compassion be about him, but no reproof or chas¬
tisement, and let man, innocent, pure, and noble, and woman,
loving and gentle, hesitate not to call him “ brother,” and he
will repent. Killing him is an awful crime under the name of
justice—it is a most awful crime on the part of the man who-
condemns his brother; yes, ten times more black in the sight
of angels than the act of the wretched criminal. And I will
tell you the reason. The man who did it, must, in a degree,
have been insane, or fired by passion, and not altogether in
his normal state ; but the judge who condemns him, does it in
cold blood; and he is completely without excuse when he
goes above.
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
But lams mah?. the judge act so.
The Spirit—Well, when those laws were made, there were
men who suggested them, arid others who accepted them ; in
that day they should have been rejected. Man made them,
and not God. As for the judge, a man should not accept an
office for the sake of gold, where he will be expected to kill
his brother. If hanging were done away with, murder in
some degree would cease ; the murderer knows that he will be
hanged, and has but an indefinite idea of what will follow ;
if he knew that he must live with a murder on his conscience,
the fear of living would be great.
“ An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth!”
The Spirit—What was the punishment of Cain ?—“ I will
set a mark upon him, iest any man find him and slay him.” “,Eye
for eye, tooth for tooth, life for life,*’is a law which never
came from God. M Thou shalt not murder,”—and hanging a
man is murder vile and gross ; murder in its most horrid form
—premeditated murder.
Other questions and answers followed, and just before de¬
parting, the spirit, in a low sweet voice, sang the following
melody :—
The gaudy day is dying,
The hours of evening flying
Chase household cards away ;
But while soft daylight lingers,
Till pight with gentle fingers
Shall close the weary eye of day—
Lord it is thy hand that guides us,
And with all good provides us,
In this our pilgrim age.
Then be our love unceasing,
And that each day increasing,
Till life’s remote and latest stage.
Then let us, e'er we slumber,
Heaven’s bounties try to number.
Too great for tongue to tell.
For Thou wilt ne’er forsake us,
But in the morning wake us,
Here, or in blest Eternity—
Here, or in blest Eternity.
The sitting then came to an end, the foregoing conversation
having been so much prolonged that there was no time to
wait for physical manifestations, which the spirits were pre¬
pared to give. But at supper afterwards, the table with all
the things on it moved about very freely when requested, and
answered questions in the ordinary way.
On Thursday, December 23rd, the same circle met again.
Mrs. Olliver was absent, but Mrs. Mary Marshall, Mr. and
Mrs. Cogman, and another lady and gentleman were present,
in addition to those named in the foregoing report, making
eleven persons in all. A sitting took place in the dark to
obtain the voices, two light tubes, about 14 inches long, and
IJ inch in aperture, being provided as usual. Each consisted
of a piece of cardboard rolled into a rough tube, and tied with
pieces of cotton at the two ends. John King soon made his
debut, as well as a spirit who gives the name of Ambo. The
voice produced by the latter was as clear as a bell, but shrill
and piercing, amounting almost to a whistle. The conversa¬
tion was of a very jocular nature. John King was asked how
he produced the voice. He said that he formed lips, which
were placed at one end of the tube; that at the other end
were artificial lungs, and behind the lungs a pair of bellows ;
the tube acted as a windpipe. The voice, he said, was not his
own, but one produced entirely automatically, common air
from the room being used for breath in the apparatus. This
statement appeared to be made seriously, but it is difficult to
tell when he means what he says, or the reverse. Katie was
also there, and held a conversation with Mrs. Marshall, warn¬
ing her seriously against a danger which was stated to
threaten her on the following evening. Attempts were made
to produce visible spirit-hands and forms, and three-fourths of
the persons present having more or less the gift of clairvoyant
vision, these forms were seen by them in proportion to the
development of the power in themselves. It is a common
thing at circles for such formations to gradually become
visible to one person after another in this way, according to
their ascertained powers of spiritual vision. Necessarily this
raises the question whether ihe impression is not of a purely
mental character, but a letter written by Mr. C. F. Yarley,
C.E., to the Dialectical Society, and published in the Daily
Telegraph, narrated how, at a circle under Mr. Home’s ine-
diumship, at which several members of the Institution of Cfivil
Engineers were present, those who bad clairvoyant vision saw
a spirit hand forming above a smelling bottle on the table.
Soon afterwards the bottle began to rock about and twist
round upon the smooth table before the eyes of the nine per¬
sons present, none of whom were touching it. At Mrs.
Berry’s seance, which we are now describing, a clerical gentle¬
man present said that hands were formed at the same circle a
fortnight previously, and that one of them manifestly belong¬
ing to a little child, took two or three minutes to pull a very
tight ring off his finger, which ring was afterwards found tied
in the curls of one of the ladies present. In short, it is a com¬
mon occurrence at spirit circles for seers to state they see
hands or spirits about to move certain things, and directly
afterwards the things are moved, to the satisfaction of the
whole company. At the dark seance now under notice, the
writer, and one or two others, saw nothing. Afterwards, at
supper-time, in the light, quite unexpectedly, one of the
supper tables, of oval shape, and averaging, perhaps, four feet
or a little more in diameter, began to move about, making
short runs of about a foot in various directions, with all the
things on it. Two or three times it rose quite off the ground,
and was let down without breaking any of the glass or china.
A small table, with nobody touching it, then began to rock
about, and glided up to the larger table. Somebody asked,
“ Would it like a tart ? ” It then rose a little to slide over the
larger table, pushed its edge under a plate with a tart on it,
and then, with a sudden upward motion, tried to jerk the
plate over. Afterwards it retired from the larger table, and,
with nobody touching it, was raised vertically in the air two
or three times, to the height of about a foot. So much for
Faraday's “ unconscious muscular action” theory.
Eleven persons saw this, and, so far as we know, the full
names and addresses of all of them may be obtained by any¬
body who wishes to thoroughly authenticate the narrative.
Nine of them are certainly ready to thus authenticate the
facts, if any useful purpose should make it worth the trouble.
The remaining one or two may be liable to suffer considerably,
were it publicly known that they consented only to observe
cuch unpopular facts of nature as spiritual phenomena. Plenty
of evidence as to facts like the above has already been given
by other persons before the Dialectical Society.
(general Netos*
A curious case of somnambulism was published in the
Echo newspaper, of last Saturday week. In bitterly cold
weather a girl, walking in her sleep, left her room and wan¬
dered through the streets to the police-station of the L divi¬
sion, where she woke up and was much frightened. She was
then conducted to her home.
A Newspaper Burlesque.—A journal called the Civilian
published for circulation among clerks in the Civil Service,
contains the following exaggerated narrative, drawn from the
unhealthy imagination of the writer thereof, coupled perhaps
with a few highly coloured facts :—“ Scene, a poorly-furnished
room in the East-end of London. By the light of the moon,
which ever and anon breaks from behind a heavy mass of
clouds, we can distinguish some fifteen to twenty people, the
majority of whom are clustered round a large round table.
They meet in silence, and take their accustomed places with¬
out making any remark, or giving more than a furtive glance
of mutual recognition. When they are all seated, they pro¬
ceed to join in a strain of weird, unearthly music, which is
followed by a few moments of solemn and impressive quiet.
We have now time to notice the appearance of our fellow
guests ; the majority are women,—nearly all, we should judge,
of a more or less unhealthy tone of mind and body, their
complexions are sallow, their foreheads low, and their fingers
lank and bony. Of the men, at least some two or three, we
should say, have come like ourselves, from curiosity. The rest
are characterised by much the same peculiarities as the women.
A slight tremulous movement is observable in the hands of some
of those who are seated round the table. One of the women
slowly rises to her feet, and commences to move her arms and
body about, as if she were wrestling with some unseen foe.
Her tortuous and convulsive movements affect her companions
in a remarkable manner; some of them stand up and go
through a series of strange and uncouth gestures. They all
seem as though they were “possessed.” There is a wild,
vacant look about their eyes which strikes the observer with
horror. One begins to chatter in a quick, sharp, inconsequent
manner; another pours forth a torrent of rhetorical gibberish;
a third, a young girl of about seventeen years of age, rushes
into the adjoining room and shrieks as though in the last
agonies of death. The rest troop after her, yelling, whooping,
and blaspheming in a most awful manner, and the noise and
riot is kept up for some ten or fifteen minutes. At last the girl
is exhausted, and lies foaming, breathless, and insensible on
the floor, while the others return to the room they had left. It
is impossible in words to give more than a very faint and in¬
adequate sketch of this extraordinary performance ; the scene
itself beggars description. From Shoreditch to Belgravia! We
have seen witchcraft lurking in the purlieus of the East; let
us see if it has met with any encouragement from people of a
higher order of intelligence and culture. A party of eight,
three ladies and five gentlemen, are seated round the dining¬
room table of a West-end mansion. It is Sunday evening.
Although the gas is lowered, you may distinguish, and pro¬
bably recognise, the features of most of those present. Two
of the ladies are of high rank, one being the wife of a quondam
Cabinet Minister, the other a lady of title. Of the male mem¬
bers of the company, one holds a distinguished position on the
Bench, another is well known as a man of science, a third
is among the most popular of writers of fiction, and the
fourth is a physician of high—we may almost say, the
highest—standing and repute. One other among the guests
still remains to be described; it is the seeress, the witch.
Possessed of more than ordinary beauty and intelligence,
young, handsome, accomplished, and unmarried, she is yet
of that peculiar abnormal constitution of body which would
appear to be the unfailing characteristic of seeresses, witches,
and ‘ mediums ’ in every age and country. She is somnambu¬
listic, hysteiical, subject to ecstatic visions, and the favourite
‘ case ’ of her physician, who has for years been endeavour¬
ing to discover the nature of her complaint. As we enter
the room she is chaunting a mournful ditty, to which an
accompaniment of raps is heard, proceeding apparently from
the table. The song over, some questions are asked of the
spirit whom this incantation is thought to have conjured
up; and answers are clearly spelt out from the. rappings
and creakirigs of the table. The information thus obtained
is not, perhaps, very valuable, nor the language in which
it is conveyed very choice; yet a new poem from Mr.
Tennyson could not be more highly esteemed or more
jealously scrutinised. And this is the nineteenth century,
the most critical and scientific, perhaps, in the whole history
of man. With all our boasted philosophy, and after ages
of persecution, the witch is still a power among us. The
instances we have given are but samples of hundreds that
we might give—of hundreds that are almost daily occurring
withia a radius of ten miles from the Royal Exchange.”
The Dialectical Society.—Seventeen articles, by a
member of the Dialectical Society, on the subject of Spirit¬
ualism, have been published at different times in The Queen
newspaper. There is plenty of internal evidence that the
writer is a skilled medical practitioner, and here is a brief
extract from his last article :—“ That these phenomena are
real—that they are neither delusions nor impostures—has been
ascertained, to the entire conviction of those who have been
testing them and, experimenting upon them for nearly a year.
There are, of course, many great differences of opinion as to
their source, their nature, and the manner in which the visible
and audible effects are produced; but all are satisfied that
they exist, though almost all, if not all (and the writer of this
especially), went into the investigation with entire scepticism,
and confident that they would speedily discover and expose
what they fully believed to be either a delusion or a fraud.
We now come to deal with another class of phenomena, not
physical merely, but which are controlled by intelligence;
not meaningless motions and sounds, but motions and sounds
manifestly directed by some power, having mind, will, know¬
ledge, wit, humour, and, indeed, most of the faculties of the
human mind. It is mainly upon these that the Spiritist faith
is built up. It is to these the Spiritualists point triumphantly
and say, ‘Admitting that nerve force has moved the table, and
made the rappings, how could nerve force answer questions,
make sensible communications, and act in obedience to re¬
quests or commands ?’ We believe there is as sufficient an
answer to this, as to the purely physical phenomena of motion
and sound, without calling in the aid of spirits of the dead.
We believe it will be possible to show that all this may be
more probably produced by the action of the influence of the
minds of one or more of the living persons present, than by
the spiritual hands and minds of the dead. The theory—for,
as yet, it is little more—will involve some difficulties both in
explanation and in maintenance ; but it will, we believe, be
found to involve vastly less of difficulty, of contradiction, of
Pec. 31, .1869.
improbability, we might say even of impossibility, than the
spirit theory of the Spiritualists. To make the explanation
intelligible, it will be necessary to revert to certain phenomena
of that state of artificial somnambulism to which the name of
mesmerism was given; which, under that name, was much
tried, much abused, and much ridiculed some years ago ; but
the genuineness of which, under the more scientific name of
artificial somnambulism, is now generally admitted by physio¬
logists and psychologists. It will then be seen that there is a
very close connection, indeed, between those phenomena and
many of the supposed** spiritual ’ phenomena, if they be not,
as there is great reason to conclude, actually identical.” Oh 1
so medical men now generally acknowledge mesmerism to be
true, but they have changed its name to “ artificial somnam¬
bulism,” and “ mesmerism,” under another name, is to be
called in to explain away Spiritualism, by those who have
hitherto ridiculed mesmerism, and kept it back in every
possible way. However, the admission that mesmerism is
true, and that the physical manifestations of Spiritualism are
real, mark great intellectual progress on the part of the in¬
vestigators. They are agreed that the phenomena are real,
but there is a division of opinion as to their spiritual origin.
The following paragraph about the Dialectical Society is from
Daybrealf.—“These strong-minded men and women when
they confronted the facts of Spiritualism, found themselves in
the presence of principles to which they were utter strangers,
and as incapable of adjudicating upon as the schoolboy or un¬
lettered peasant. Yet, even the members of the Dialectical
Committee are human, beautifully human some of them, hence
these great truths found a response in their inner nature, more
or less, sooner or later. The committee of experiments deve¬
loped mediums and elicited phenomena. Some of the mem¬
bers tried the spirit circle in their own families, and were
astonished to find that the angels of their household were in¬
deed ministering spirits or mediums for consummating com¬
munion with the world of spirits. The whole committee are
now convinced that the phenomena are genuine, and many of
them incline to the spiritual hypothesis, while a fair propor¬
tion are open spiritualists, visiting circles, developing mediums,
reading books, and busy spreading the good news. Indeed,
they are now beginning to reap the odium that so pertinaci¬
ously adheres to the term Spiritualist or any other movement
a step in advance of popular ignorance. This J investigation
has been another triumph for Spiritualism, and also for the
gentlemen engaged in it, in so far as they have candidly and
intelligently opened their minds to the truth.”
Tien Sien Tie.—A statement has been made to us that
the words “ Tien Sien Tie,” forming the name of the Chinese
gentleman in the next world, who has come back to earth to
deliver addresses to the English people through the medium-
ship of Mr. Morse, were recently submitted without comment
to an eminent Chinese scholar. The latter stated that the
words mean “ The Fairy Spirit Ruler,” or, in English phrase¬
ology, “ The Heavenly Spirit Ruler.” We have not tested the
authenticity of this translation as yet, but tell the tale as it
was told to us.
Spiritualism in East London.—A spirit circle is held
twice a week at the house of Mrs. Main, 321, Bethnal-green-
road. On Sunday evenings the sittings begin at seven o’clock,
and on Tuesdays at nine. Among the mediums who some¬
times attend are Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. Frank Herne, Master
Selwood, and Mrs. Fielder. All these are trance mediums,
but Messrs. Heme and Selwood get physical manifestations in
addition. Several incipient mediums are developing at these
meetings. In course of time particulars respecting other East
London circles will be collected, and published in these
pages.
The Philosophy of Spiritualism.—The philosophy of
Spiritualism teaches us these things :—1st. That man, the in¬
habitant of the universe, is endowed with an immortal spirit;
and that all material creation exists only for the development
of that spirit.—2nd. That when this spirit breaks through the
clay, it finds itself in a new phase of existence.—3rd. In
this new phase the spirit works out its further advancement
by deeds of love—by acquiring knowledge, and by imparting
such knowledge to men or spirits less favoured.—4th. This
progression is infinite as knowledge. From one stage, or
phase of progress, the spirit, never losing its identity, passes
to another and higher.—Daraidm. .
Spiritualism in South Wales.—Until about a year
ago, very little about Spiritualism was known in South Wales,
though here and there in the district there were a few spirit
circles held in strict privacy. Practically speaking, the move¬
ment began to spread in Wales about nine months ago, in con¬
sequence of some lectures delivered in the district by Mr. James
Burns, in which he incidentally introduced the subject of
Spiritualism. This attracted the attention of some few per¬
sons in Merthyr, and the result was the formation of three or
four spirit circles. Some of the ordinary manifestations were
soon obtained, then many other circles were started, so that
at the present time a great deal of interest in Spiritualism has
been excited in Merthyr, Aberdare, and Hirwain. Mr. Burns
went to Merthyr to lecture in the early part of this month, and
had a crowded audience in the largest building in the flbwn
for public meetings. In a short time, as the local mediums-
become more fully developed, some of the more striking mani¬
festations will be obtained. The Merthyr district is the most
populous one in ;the whole of Wales. All the agricultura
districts of Wales have long been in course of depopulation
of their agricultural labourers, as shown by the census returns,
and very many of these men get employment in the Merthyr
mines and ironworks, before emigrating to America, con¬
sequently any knowledge gained by working men in
Merthyr, spreads very rapidly among their friends in all parts
of Wales. Some little interest in Spiritualism is felt by a
few persons in Cardiff, as two deputations met Mr. Burns
there, to question him on the subject. Very few people in
Swansea as yet know anything about the reality and the im¬
portance of the movement, but in Llanelly it has begun to gain
ground, and this paper has a small circulation there. We do
not know anything about Spiritualism in Newport. The rest
of the towns in South Wales, other than those mentioned, are
small, and the majority of them being dependent upon the
agricultural districts around them for support, are necessarily
declining in prosperity as the depopulation progresses, and as
the wealth accumulates in fewer hands. The great mines and
ironworks around Merthyr and Aberdare are the chief sources
of prosperity in Wales ; the other sources of strength are the
copper-smelting works at Swansea and Llanelly. Cardiff and
Newport are dependent upon the shipping trade, the coal and
iron from the hill districts of Wales being brought down to
these ports for further transport. The places in which some¬
thing about Spiritualism has been known in Wales for a few
years past, are Llanelly and Hirwain, and there they first be¬
came known through the publications issued by Mr. Bums.
Deo. 31, 1869.
THE SPIRIT UALIST.
CHARGES^ FOR ADVERTISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per
sixth of a column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a
column, or portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.-—Advertisements at the foregoing rates will be
'•‘displayed" so as to occupy the full space paid for, but
advertisements at the following rales will be in closely set
.type.
3. General Advertisements, Half-a-crown per first five
dines or portion of five lines, and Fourpence for every line in
. addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling
per first four lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for
every line in addition.
Ten. words are allowed to the line, and six figures or
initial letters count as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement
.are paid for, twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the
above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertise¬
ment.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the
Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's
Church-yard, London, E.C., or to Mr. J. Burns, 15, j
.Southampton-row, High Holborn, London, W. C.
Cfl CoraspBittonts.
All letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount
.of space available for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by
.letter only, addressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London,
E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in England, together
with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with
the literary work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will
meet with careful consideration.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great
freedom of expression to all the different shades of opinion
to be found among Spiritualists. There will therefore be
very little uniformity in the ideas promulgated in this journal,
more especially in the correspondence columns. Under these
.circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the
right of reply remains. This freedom of thought given to
.others, the Editor claims for himself and those who do not
like the contents of leading articles, can write against them
in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought belter
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a
pale weak mediocrity, by inserting only those contributions
which please everybody. The preceding remarks are not
intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them
here, for none but those letters which are considered worth
publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism
should be sent to the office several days in advance.
Cb iJoir-Sirmtalisfs.
A large amount of information is printed on the last two
pages of this journal, clearly demonstrating that the facts of
Spiritualism, highly improbable as they appear to be, are
real, and deserve serious investigation by all thoughtful
people. In other columns of every number of The Spiri¬
tualist will also be found plenty of additional evidence to
the same effect.
Cb Sitbsmtars.
The first twelve numbers of The Spiritualist will be
forwarded regularly by penny post to subscribers, who remit
four shillings in payment, to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher,
Ave.Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.C.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1869.
THE NOMENCLATURE OF SPIRITUALISM.
When educated people first begin to witness tbe
manifestations at spirit circles, an unfavourable im¬
pression is sometimes produced, by tbe too frequent
misapplication of scientific words having a definite
meaning in English literature, to forces of an unknown
nature. The abuse of the words “ electricity ” and
“magnetism” often grates on the ear, and spiritual
“ ethers,” as well as other incomprehensibilities some¬
times crop up. Electricity is the force which deflects
the needle of the galvanometer, and which causes the
gold-leaves of the electrometer to diverge. Magnetism
is the power which enables a steel magnet to attract
iron. The unknown forces employed by spirits are not
magnetism, and are not electricity, nor has it yet been
demonstrated that they are even analogous thereto. As
the two words just mentioned have a clear, established,
and definite meaning, it is manifest that if they gra¬
dually get thoroughly into use among thousands of
spiritualists, confusion will be the result, and eradica¬
tion of the words will be more difficult than at present.
The first thing to be done is to define the nature of
each force or union of forces employed by the spirits,
producing distinct effects at spirit circles, and then to
find names for each. For instance, sometimes at a par¬
ticular circle, the entrance of one person will stop the
table or voice manifestations; shall we call this force
his “ spiritual atmosphere,” or what ? Again, some
persons by their will alone can make their influence
felt by clairvoyant patients miles away. What name
shall we find for this ? If those who are experienced
in the facts of spiritual manifestations like to enter
into correspondence on this matter, we shall be glad to
make room in this journal for as many as possible of
the letters, provided they be brief. Then, when every
force or union of forces, is clearly defined, and a name
chosen for the same, a dictionary of a few words with
their accepted meanings might be printed along with
the standing matter on the two last pages of the paper,
and adopted for general use from that time forth, in
these pages at all events. What is the meaning of
“ biologise ? ” What is meant by “ psychologise,”
“ mesmerise,” and “ magnetise ? ” Have some of those
words the same meaning? If so, why are not those
which are superfluous abolished? Until we have sen¬
sible names for spiritual forces, each name conveying a
clear, distinct, and unmistakeable idea to the minds of
all persons using the same, research into Spiritualism
will he retarded, and attempts at explanation of pheno¬
mena from public platforms will put the ideas of the
listeners into a muddle. The misuse of the words
“ electricity ” and “ magnetism ” marred many of the
splendid public addresses given by Mrs. Hardinge, not
that the adoption of those particular words was in itself
a great fault, but because it threw into confusion the
ideas of most of listeners, many of the whom could not
know what meaning she intended to convey, or what
definition the words bore in her own mind. Perhaps
also the use of the word “ sceptic,” as applied to non¬
spiritualists is injudicious, because it is so often hurled
as an offensive term from pulpit and platform, at the
heads of thoughtful people, who will not accept the
statements of noisy orators as truth, without coolly and
calmly testing the evidence supporting their assertions.
People who will not accept anything as a fact without
reasonable evidence, make the best Spiritualists, and
those who believe everything which they are told by
spirits in and out of the body, make the worst.
SCENERY IN THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Last Friday evening, at eight o’clock, at a seance
held at the Spiritual Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Holborn, and reported in another column, the following
communication was received through Mr. J. J. Morse,
the trance medium:—
The first spirit who spoke through the medium said :
My friends, it is very seldom that I come to use a
medium, but perhaps I shall be able to do a little good
this evening; I feel strange, almost awed, until I get
calm again. It is now a little over five—no, let me see
—a little over six years since I gave up the natural
body in a little village a few miles out of London; I will
give you the address before I go away. When I re¬
covered consciousness after the change, I found myself
in what you would call a beautiful garden. I was lying
on a bank by the side of a stream: the stream gave
forth a gentle musical sound, and I think it was that
which brought me to consciousness again. I recovered
and felt as if I had awoke from a deep sleep, and had
been dreaming very heavily and was dreaming still.
It was a gentle sloping bank; on the top of the bank
was a broad plain, and above me were flowers distri¬
buted into beds; there was a broad path of dazzling
whiteness that went right across the greensward to a
house beyond. This house was enshrouded with trees.
There was a terrace in front of the house, with creeping
vines, over the balustrade, giving forth a blue and white
flower about half as large as your hand, with fine
leaves, blue at the edges and white at the centre. The
leaf of the vine was nearly round, of a bright green
tint. I had never seen a house like it before ; it was
pure white, and I could see dimly through it shapes
and forms moving about on the other side. I could not
see clearly through it. In front of the house grew an
immense tree; its branches spread out and seemed to
shade the house from the light;. the light was tempered
by the shadow of the tree. On the lawn in front of the
house were little bowers of the branches of a tree, with
flowers much like your rose, but more beautiful; the
leaves were like silk in appearance, about a foot long
and about as broad as the palm of your hand. They
pluck these leaves now and then and write on them;
they will serve the purpose of books, for they dry and
29
become a bright amber colour, but the marks made by
each person who uses the leaves are of different colours,
but I did not understand that then. Before I saw all this
two persons came down and assisted me to rise, and de¬
posited me on a bank of leaves, a peculiar scent from
which invigorated me and made me strong. One of
them began fanning me with the hands round the head
and face, and down my chest to the extremities; a
warm glow seemed to run through me; I soon was able
to stand and look around me clearly, and then I saw
what I have described to you. The two friends then I
recognised to be an aunt and a cousin, who had passed
over to the other side some few years before I did.
They took me into a house and into a beautiful apart¬
ment, where I saw many more that I knew. There
were pictures round the room, which seemed to be
painted upon the walls of the house; some appeared to
be portraits of people I knew, and among them was
my own. Soon I fairly knew where I was. My first
thought was, “ What has become of my child ? ” and the
next was, “ How is this ? This is not what I expected
from my belief in the flesh.” They told me not to be
anxious about my child, and at once I felt it was true
and that I had nothing to be anxious about, though I
did not know why. I could not keep quiet about my
religion. I wanted to know, “ Was this heaven, or
what was it ?” And I told them that I had been taught
of the merits of Jesus. Their answers shocked me at
first. I gave them much trouble and bother to answer
my questions, and it was long before I became recon¬
ciled to my condition. I expected to be in heaven
singing Hosannas to the Lamb. I did not find the
throne of God, or the Lamb, or angels singing, and yet
had anybody said anything against that belief in the
flesh, I should have thought them very very wicked. I
find that there is no hell, and I am very glad that there
is none; I find that all people, no matter what they
are, have good in them which will be brought out soon,
and that knowledge gives me pleasure. We meet at
times for mutual instruction; we have conversational
meetings and ask each other for advice. The patriarch
of the family gives us missions to perform. Some of us
are sent back to the earth to become masters of what
belongs to your world; others in the spirit world study
science; some want to learn the geography of the spirit
universe, or the conditions of spiritual existence. We
come to earth and learn the conditions which govern
you, and then we can advise you. I love to remain
above with kind and tender friends. I must go now for
I cannot control the medium much longer. My name
is Mary Willett, I died giving birth to a child. The
spirit of that child fled before it came to the material
life. I was the wife of a baker, and “ died ” as you call
it, at Orpington, a village just outside of St. Mary’s
Cray, Kent.*
l)o all spirits go where you are 1
There are many who never reach the spirit world
or summer land for years. Many never pass outside
the atmosphere of your earth, but, as the Scriptures
say, “ wander up and down like a roaring lion.” The
“ spirit world ” is a confusing term, for it means “ the
inner life.” The “spheres” are a distinct spiritual
universe.
The spirit, whose control of the medium had been
very weak throughout, then left.
The address of Mrs. John Olive, the trance-medium
mentioned in our last, has been changed, and the new one will
be found among the advertisements on the last page.
Pauperism and Emigration.—At the present time peti¬
tions to Parliament in favour of free emigration have been
displayed for signatures in several public thoroughfares in
London. Every person signing them gives his full address,
and tens of thousands of signatures have thus been given, as
the amount of pauperism in the country is growing so rapidly
that soon the authorities will be unable to cope with it.—A
more stringent Bankruptcy Act, re-establishing, to a large ex¬
tent, imprisonment for debt, will come into force very shortly,
and as many persons know this, they are hastening to get
“ whitewashed ” as soon as possible. This explains the enor¬
mous number of bankrupts recorded in the daily papers during
the past fortnight. Most of these people and their families
will have to go into the poorhouse, while those who become
bankrupt under the new Act will, for the most part, have to
go to prison. Hence the necessity for facilities for emigra¬
tion. Since the publication of our last issue our rulers have
poured a vast number of extra troops into Ireland ; they have
sent several additional men-of-war to guard the coast; they
have also began to fortify the police-stations in some of the
chief Irish towns by lining the window shutters with sheet
iron plates, furnished with loopholes for musket barrels. The
daily newspapers keep as quiet as possible about all these
facts, because they have always hidden from the public those
violations of the fundamental principles of political economy
which cause all these evils, and they do so still.
* Last Monday we went to Orpington to inquire into the accuracy of this
statement. No baker of the name of Willett lives there now or is known to
have lived there within the last thirty years. A respectable baker of the
name of Tillott has been in business there for more than twenty years; he
was much surprised at the nature of the inquiries, having never heard of the
strange subject of Spiritualism before, and he stated that his brother’s wife
died at Orpington about six years ago in childbirth, but her name was
Harriett. It is more difficult to signal proper names through some me¬
diums, than ideas and words which can be placed in the thought of the
medium, so this may be a case where a part of the message was spoilt in
transmission, just as telegraphic messages from India have often been spoilt,
and in a few cases have ruined great English commercial firms in conse¬
quence. Or, it may be, that a Mary Tillett died at Orpington, whose hus¬
band resided elsewhere. The records in the office of the local registrar will
throw light on the subject, and further inquiries shall be made and pub¬
lished, since the whole value of the communications made through the
mediumship of Mr. Morse, depends upon their truthfulness.—Ed.
30
THE SPIRITUALIST.
SPIRIT VERSES.
Three or four years ago Mr. D. D. Home lectured at Willis’s Rooms,
London, on Spiritualism, and gave the following verses, which had been
dictated to him, March 25,1851, by a spirit who gave the name of “Robert
Southey.” The verses refer to Southey’s temporary loss of reason while in
earth life.
Night overtook me e’er my race was run,
And mind—which is the chariot of the soul.
Whose wheels revolve in radiance like the sun
And utter glorious music as they roll
To the eternal goal—
With sudden shock stood still. She heard the boom
Of thunders. Many cataracts seemed to pour
From the invisible mountains; through the gloom
Slowed the great waters; then I knew no more
But this—that thought was o'er.
EXTRACT FROM “THE MOURNING BRIDE.”
Almeria.
It was a fancy’d noise; for all is hushed,
Leonora.
It bore the accent of a human voice.
Almeria.
It was thy fear, or else some transient wind
Whistling through hollows of this vaulted aisle:
We’ll listen 
Leonora.
Hark!
Almeria.
without having actually seen any manifestations. All that
Spiritualists should ask for is a fair hearing, and after that
fair hearing has been accorded I think that some people
who now set them down to be knaves and fools,” will
ultimately confess themselves dreadfully mistaken.
Dec. 14th, 1869. A Country Journalist.
P.S.—That remarkable account of the cure of Leon Favre,
Consul-General of France, which appeared in the Spiritual
Magazine, ought to have been condensed and then printed on
a separate slip and forwarded to every newspaper editor in
England. Such testimony as is given by the Count in favour
of Spiritualism should be circulated far and wide.
[Several editors of standard London newspapers do know that Spiritual¬
ism is true, but are afraid to say so. Did one of them print the truth, the
pulpit and the public would say that it was an untruthful “infidel” paper,
and its closest competitor would write articles to the effect that the editor
of its rival had gone mad, and put his lunacy in print. Consequently the
circulation of the honest journal would be injured. This all arises from the
low state of education in Great Britain, for the general public prefer pre¬
conceived notions, however foolish, to investigation after truth; therefore,
they are continually paying penalties for the sin of ignorance. Some edi¬
tors, also, who know the facts of the case, may not desire to speak of them,
just as most of the London daily papers purposely suppress facts which
political-economists know to deeply injure the nation, though they benefit
the private material interests of a few. What does our correspondent do in
his own journal ? We know several country newspapers which could ruin
themselves in three weeks by speaking the truth about Spiritualism.—Ed.]
SOCIETY.
No, all is hushed, and still as death.—’Tis dreadful!
How reverend is the face of this tall pile;
Whose ancient pillars rear their marble heads,
To bear aloft its arched and ponderous roof,
By its own weight made steadfast and immoveable—
Looking tranquility! It strikes an awe
And terror on my aching sight: the tombs
And monumental caves of death look cold.
And shoot a chillness to my trembling heart.
Give me thy hand, and let me hear thy voice:
Nay, quickly speak to me, and let me hear
Thy voice—my own affrights me with its echoes.
Congreve.
NIGHT.
Oh! sweet and beautiful is night, when the silver moon is high,
And countless stars, like clustering gems, hang sparkling in the sky;
When the balmy breath of the summer breeze, comes whispering down the
glen,
And one fond voice alone is heard—Oh, night is lovely then!
But when that voice in feeble moans of sickness and of pain,
But mocks the anxious ear that strives to catch its sounds in vain,
When silently we watch the bed by the taper’s flickering light,
And all we love is fading fast—how terrible is night!
Ingoldshy.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers].
THE BEST WAY TO SPREAD SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—I bail with satisfaction the publication of a periodical
like The Spiritualist, and I trust that its bi-monthly issue
will be continued.
I presume that it is the desire of all true Spiritualists to
spread a knowledge of the things they themselves understand,
but (excuse me for saying so), I fancy that most of them do
not take the best means to extend their faith, and others are
very uncharitable if scepticism is strongly exhibited.
Allow me to make a remark or two on these points. In the
first place, I do not think that Spiritualism will rapidly grow
until a great opposing power—the metropolitan and provincial
press of this country—has been won over to admit its miracles.
Ten newspaper editors can do more to extend a knowledge of
spiritual truths than ten thousand less influential people.
Nothing succeeds now-a-days unless the press has smiled
upon it. A new entertainment, a new book, a new pill, with¬
out tbe aid of the press, seldom takes. There are hundreds of
thousands in this country who place implicit reliance on their
weekly or daily newspaper, and accept its dictum almost for
gospel. I would advise Spiritualists on all occasions to en¬
deavour to secure the support of “ the fourth estate.” But, it
may be asked, how is this support to be obtained. I would
reply—in this manner. Whenever a trustworthy and good
medium, like Mr. Home, visits the provinces, let a special in¬
vitation—if necessary, a personally-solicited one—be given to
the local editors to attend at the seances, and let some mutual
friend make it his duty to prevail on the editor (not the mere
reporter) to be present. I was reading the interesting account
of the recent seances at the house of Mr. Beattie, at Glifton,
and I thought what an oversight it was not to have invited
the conductors of all the Bristol papers to be present. They
would have narrated their experiences to the world, and must
have confessed, in doing so, their inability to comprehend or
explain away the phenomena, and the result would have been
that a discussion would have cropped up in which thousands
would have been interested. I think I am speaking the truth
when I say that nine out of every ten people you meet, and
who judge Mr. Home from the reports which appeared of him
in the Home v. Lyon case, set him down to be a “ humbug,”
and all Spiritualists, as a rule, are classed by unbelievers
in the same interesting category. We should endeavour,
I think, to remove this incorrect impression, not because
we are individually injured by it, but because it is
an obstacle to the advancement of our beautiful science. There
is a great disposition on the part of many to convert medical
men, but I think it is a sheer waste of precious time to dally
too much with these gentlemen. They always have such
grand theories—such hair-splitting and confusing explanations
of what they have observed, and they usually only make
matters worse. Besides an “ M.D.”if he does confess that the
physical and mental phenomena of Spiritualism arise from an
unseen intelligence, has but a very small influence over public
opinion, and is generally afraid to utter forth the conclusions
he has been compelled to arrive at. The conversion of a pro¬
fessional literary man, however, is a different thing. He sees
in broad daylight inert matter move without visible help—he
receives strange communications which only the so-called dead
could communicate, and fairly non-plussed he goes straight
away and publishes to the world those things, confessing his
inability to account for them, but declaring them to be
nevertheless facts. Suppose that Tyndall, Lubbock, Huxley,
and Darwin (with Professor Pepper thrown in), were all ready
to admit that the facts of Spiritualism are facts, that would
be of far less importance than if the editors of the Saturday
Review, the Spectator, the Pall Mall Gazette, and the Times
were to depose to the same thing.
Spiritualists should not be hard on those who are sceptical.
It requires a great amount of credibility to accept many of
the statements which appear in the spiritual publications
Mr. Charles Dickens, in one of his tales, narrates how
Mr. Chops, the dwarf, one of the attractions of Magsman’s
show, came into a fortune of twelve thousand five hundred
Sounds, owing to a successful speculation in a lottery ticket.
[e therefore had no further occasion to send round the saucer
to collect halfpence, but he took a house at Pall-mall, and
“went into society.” His experience of the materiality of
society, as narrated below, is forcible and valuable in the
extreme:—
“ One night when we had played the last company out,
which was a shy company through its raining heavens hard, I
was takin’ a pipe in the one-pair-back along with the young
man with the toes, which I had,taken on for a month (though
he never drawed, except on paper), and I heard a kickin’ at
the street door. ‘ Halloa ! ’ I says to the young man, ‘ what’s
up ? ’ He rubs his eyebrows with his toes, and he says, ‘ I
can’t imagine, Mr. Magsman’—which he never could imagine
nothin’, and was monotonous company.
“ The noise not leavin’ off, I laid down my pipe, and I took
up a candle, and I went down and opened the door. I looked
out into the street, but nothin’ could I see, and nothin’ was I
aware of, until I turned round quick, because some creetur run
between my legs into the passage. There was Mr. Chops !
“ 1 Magsman,’ he says, ‘ take me on the hold terms, and
you’ve got me ; if it’s done, say done 1 ’
“ I was all of a maze, but I said, ‘ Done, sir.’
“ 1 Done to your done, and double done ! ’ says he, ‘ Have
you got a bit of supper in the house ? ’
“ Bearin’ in mind them sparklin’ warieties of foreign drains
as we’d guzzled away at in Pall-mall, I was ashamed to offer
him cold sassages and gin-and-water ; but he took ’em both,
and took ’em free ; havin’ a chair for his table, and sittin’
down at it on a stool, like hold times—I all of a maze all the
while.
“ It was arter he had made a clean sweep of the sassages
(beef, and to the best of my calculations two pound and a
quarter), that the wisdom as was in that little man began to
come out of him like prespiration.
“ ‘ Magsman,’ he says, ‘ look upon me ! You see afore you
one as has both gone into society, and come out.’
110, you are out of it, Mr. Chops ? How did you get out,
sir ? ’
“ ‘ Sold out 1’ says he. You never saw the like of the wis¬
dom as his Ed expressed when he made use of them two
words.
“ ‘ My friend Magsman, I’ll impart to you a discovery I’ve
made. It’s wallable ; it’s cost twelve thousand five hundred
pound ; it may do you good in life. The secret of this matter
is, that it ain’t so much that a person goes into society, as that
society goes into a person.’
“Not exactly keeping up with his meanin’, I shook my
head, put on a deep look, and said, ‘You’re right there, Mr.
Chops.’
“ ‘ Magsman,’ he says, twichin me by the leg, ‘ Society has
gone into me, to the tune of every penny of my property.’
“ I felt that I went pale, and though not nat’rally a bold
speaker, I couldn’t hardly say, ‘ Where’s Normandy ? ’
“ ‘ Bolted. With the plate,’ said Mr. Chops.
“ ‘ And t’other one ? ’—meaning him as formerly wore the
bishop’s mitre.
“ ‘ Bolted. With the jewels,’ said Mr. Chops.
“ I sat down and looked at him, and he stood up and looked
at me.
“ | Magsman,’ he says, and he seemed to myself to get wiser
as he got hoarser, 1 Society, taking in the lump, is all dwarfs.
At the court of Saint James’s they was all a-doin’ my hold
bisness—all a-goin’ three times round the cairawan in the
hold court-suits and properties. Elsewheres, they was most
of ’em ringin’ their little bells out of make-believes. Every-
wheres the sarser was a-goin’ round. Magsman, the sarser is
the uniwersel institution ! ’ ”
The two Ghosts.—Sir Walter Scott used to tell, with
much zest, a story of a man who tried to frighten his friend
by encountering him at midnight on a lonely spot which was
supposed to be the resort of a ghostly visitant. He took his
seat I on the haunted stone, wrapped in a long white sheet.
Presently, to his horror, the real ghost appeared, and sat down
beside him with the ominous ejaculation, “ You are a ghost
and I am a ghost; let us come closer and closer together.’’
And closer and closer the ghost pressed, till the sham ghost,
overcome with terror, fainted away.
The Welsh Easting Girl.—After being watched for
eight days by nurses from Guy’s Hospital, the Welsh fasting
girl died, and the jury at the inquest have returned a verdict
equivalent to that of “ manslaughter ” against the parents.
The members of the first committee who watched the child
are strongly divided in opinion as to the guilt of the parents,
who, for the most part, have been condemned by the general
public and the newspapers. Professional mesmerists, who are
few in number, and free from the ignorance of medical men
about many abnormal conditions of the body, think the facts
to be in favour of the innocence of the parents, though pro¬
bably they have too little influence to secure for the father
and mother the benefit of the doubt when the case comes on
for trial.
Dec. 31, 1869.
iScoft Notices.
Purpose and Passion, by Keningale Eobert Cook,
B.A. London: Virtue and Co.—This book is of in¬
terest chiefly to those who have a taste for classical
poetry. Some very prettily-written descriptions of
flowers, sunlight, and scenery are scattered here and
there in the poems, and a few specimens may be quoted.
Here, for instance, are a few selections from some
verses on “ Enthusiasm,” whose praises are thus sung
by the writer:—
Come all sweet loves in clusters round my head,
Come scarce seen hyacinths of the forest dells,
Come singing softly how ye filled and fed
From out free skies your wealth of dripping bells.
Calm me ye teachings of the world-old hills,
Whose ways lead up to where my maiden stands,
Pointing down vistas that great hope fulfils—
The brightest stardrop made of God’s fair hands.
She is the happiest maiden in the world,
Though beaten down a thousand times a day
By winds and storm that round her feet are curled,
By weight of mist that spheres the rose with grey.
The next verse of the same poem shows some of the
defects of the author’s style:—
As earth-born monster, sorely maimed and spent,
Cleaves close unto the nursing-mother’s breast,
And, nostril-fed by breaths thus nurture-blent,
Gains greater strength the more he is opprest—
The following are the opening verses of another
poem, entitled “ The World before Man ”:—
A sky of swollen mists exhaled
From seething marsh and boundless green ;
A Titan crowd of stems and reeds,
Wide lakes and burning plains between.
Mad riot and luxuriant growth,
Festoonery upon each tree ;
Gross life of verdure sweeping down
By calm grey rivers to the sea.
The panther’s roar is on the air,
And full of song the jungle-wood;
The blue snake winds his coils, along,
And seeks the singing bird for food.
The heron by the loamy marge
Of sheltered shallows, marks the smooth
Bright silver fishes flash along,—
Taught keenness by her hunger’s tooth.
The following lines again, from “ The Eomance of
Best,” tell in very beautiful language how the poet and
his friend were wooed on a summer’s day, to leave the
house for the open air :—
Long converse had we in the window niche,
While winds impatient in the ivy leaves,
Said “ Come, 0 come to us,” and whispered low
Their tales of couches with the heaven for roof,
Tapping the lattice in their ecstacies ;
Till I, in envy of their joyous hearts,
Longed to drink in the air, and be a boy,
Taught by the breezes of the hill-side school.
We wandered out by sheep-paths toward the moor,
Staying our feet, where all things seemed to join
With summer to make glad.
From tbe song of “ Fairyland,” and from tbe lines
“ To a Dying King,” other quotations possessing beauty
and force might be made, but here are some verses of a
different description:—
The ripple of music flows ;
Who knows, who knows ?
The kisses blossom like the rose
Only the happy summer knows.
Sunlights, rose lights, white lights,
In the sweep of their fingers are music to us ;
Here and there idle thus,
Hither and thither across the [lattice see floating, how
marvellous.
Most of the classical poems in tbe book are elaborately
finished works of art. They appeal not to tbe feelings,
but they show considerable—sometimes too much—
knowledge on tbe part of tbe writer of the capabilities
of tbe English language, and are adapted to please the
conventional taste of tbe few, and not tbe natural taste
of tbe many. Literature which meets a demand, caused
by temporary and artificial conditions, will soon vanish
beneath the effacing fingers of father Time. In our
opinion Mr. Cook has been most successful in those
poems wherein he has been most simple and most
natural, as in some of the verses which have here been
quoted. These specimens show for themselves that the
author has some of the true spirit of poetry in him.
The book is neatly bound, and altogether is creditable
to the author, printers, and publishers.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
I. F. Y.—The lecturer deserves all you say, but we have no space
to spare for strings of complimentary remarks. Some practical
statistical information about Spiritualism in your town, with par¬
ticulars as to the number of mediums, and what kind of manifes¬
tations they get would he useful.
J. M.—Clearly “ coincidence.” One part of your friend’s story is
certainly inaccurate; who can say on what particular day a tree
dies, the process being so slow ?
Norwich.—Your alphabet received. Shall have something to say
about it at a future time.
Isle op Wight.—Too late for this issue.
Dec. 31, 1869,
THE SPIRITUALIST
31
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
As this Journal will necessarily often come
under the observation of those who are not
Spiritualists, it has been thought judicious to
reprint regularly on this and the next page,
the following condensed evidence that spiri¬
tualism deserves serious investigation. The
phenomena witnessed in spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM: DESERVES INVES^
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Bobert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E.,
F:R.G.S., M.B.I.:—
“ I, Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows
• “I have been a student of‘electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer hy profession for twenty-one_ years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and communications,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
if possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in_ every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and_ having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.
“The subject of course offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and I have
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to an extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Europe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“ Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me¬
diums whose cases I have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty.
“ C. F. Vabley.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Bussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemhurg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq.,Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham ; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Draysdn, R.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villaS, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. 0. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; Wfiliam
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kihnorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfield, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the hook, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
The following is an extract from another
affidavit, made in the suit of Lyon v. Home:—
“ I, James Manby Gully, of The Priory, Great Malvern,
in the County of Worcester, doctor of medicine, make
oath and say as follows:—
“I have known the above-named defendant, Daniel
Dunglass Home, for seven years and upwards, last past,
and have during that period been in the habit of attend¬
ing him professionally, and also of receiving him in my
house as a personal friend, and I have never had the
smallest reason to doubt his character as a man of
honour and proper moral feeling.
“ I have during the past seven years witnessed both
in my own house, and elsewhere, in the presence of the
said Mr. Home many curious occurrences, which I am
unable to explain, in the way of singular phenomena,
such as displacement of objects without physical con¬
tact, &c., and from my personal and careful investiga¬
tions (which Mr. Home himself ever urges) I am positive
that it is not in consequence of any trick or device that
such phenomena occur. I have even been witness to
singular phenomena when the said Mr. Home was not in
the same room, and also when he has been asleep. I
have never known the said Mr. Home receive money for
what is termed ‘a seance' but I have known him re¬
peatedly refuse ofiers of as much as twenty guineas for
a single seance. “J. M. Gully, MD.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
'some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subj ect. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism,, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in Savour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
The Spiritual Magazine for October, 1869, gives
the following names of friends of Spiritualism
who have now and then contributed to its pages:—
“Viscount Adare; John Ashbumer, M.D., Translator
of Beichenbach, author of Philosophy of Animal Mag¬
netism and Spiritualism; T. B. Barkas, author of Outlines
of Ten Years' Investigation into the Phenomena of Modern
Spiritualism; George Barth; Bichard Beamish, F.B.S.,
author of The Life of Brunei; Bev. S. E. Bengough,
M.A.; Edward L. Blanchard; Edward Brotherton; Cap¬
tain Bichard F. Burton (the African traveller;) William
Carpenter, author of Political Letters, The English Bible;
Captain Edward Henry Chawner; Henry T. Child,
M.D. (Philadelphia, IT.S.A.); Benjamin Coleman, author
of Spiritualism in America; Bobert Collyer, M.D., F.C.S.;
Christopher Cook; Bobert Cooper, author of Spiritual
Experiences; Mrs. De Morgan, author of From Matter to
Spirit; Jacob Dixon, L.B.C.P., author of Clairvoyance,
Hygienic, and Medical; Hugh Doherty, M.D', author of
Organic Philosophy; Captain Drayson, B.A; Judge
Edmonds (New York); Captain H. A Fawcett, B.N.;
John M. Gully, M.D.; Professor W. D. Gunning (Boston,
U.S.A.); Samuel Carter Hall, F.S.A.; Emma Hardinge;
George Harris, M.A., F.S.A., President of the Manches¬
ter Anthropological Society;. W. E. Hickson, late editor
of the Westminster Foreign Quarterly Review; Bev. A.
W. Hobson, M.A.; Baron C.DirckinckHolmfeld; Daniel
Dunglass Home; Bev. J. Page Hopps, editor of The
Truthseeker; Mary Howitt; William Howitt; Henry D.
Jencken, M.B.I., F.G.S.; John Jones, author of Man:
Physical, Apparitional, and Spiritual; Bev. William
Ker, M.A.: Seymour Kirkup (Florence); Andrew Leigh¬
ton ; Bobert Leighton; Kenneth B. P. Mackenzie, F.S.A.;
Bev. William Mountford (Boston, U.S.A.); A. E. New¬
ton (Boston, TJ.S.AJ author of The Ministry of Angels
Realised; Mary S. Gove Nichols; J. H. Powell: Baron
Reichenbach, author of Researches on the Dynamics of
Magnetism; Elihu Rich, author of several articles in the
Encyclopsedia Metropolitana; J. Lockhart Robertson,'
M.R.C.P.: Mary 0. Hume Bothery; Bev. W .Hume
Rothery, M.A.; Epes Sargent, author of The Plcmchette;
Thomas Shorter; Rev) W. B. Tomlinson, M.A.; Crom¬
well F. Varley, F.B.G.S.; 0. Staniland Wake, author of
Chapters on Man; Alfred B. Wallace; A. M. H. Watts;
William White, author of Emanuel Swedenborg: His
Life and Writings; W. M. Wilkinson, author of Spirit
Drawings; James J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D., author of
The Human Body, and its Connection with Man; Bev. F.
B. Young.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be ehosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given,, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager,
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.’
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“ The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“I hope his is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1, 1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New Amen-ica estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
All these facts, together with those which
follow, prove that Spiritualism deserves serious
investigation. Not a few learned men have pri¬
vately been examining the phenomena in order to
“ explode the imposture,” but these extinguishers
soon catch fire themselves. In short, in the
minds of most of the English public, Spiritualism
has to pass through the following five stages:—
1. The manifestations do not take place.
2. Spiritualism is a gross imposture.
3. It is a delusion.
4. It is the work of the Devil.
5. It is a great blessing, and we always said so.
Experience shows that the feebler the intellect,
and the lower the standard of energy and educa¬
tion, the sooner does the investigator break down
at one of the first four out of the above five steps
in the ladder of progress.
MR. HOME’S AFFIDAVIT.
In the Chancery suit of Lyon v. Home, for the
recovery of certain monies given by Mrs. Lyon
to Mr. Home against the advice of her lawyer
and her friends, Mr. Home made an affidavit, from
which the following is an extract:—
“ I, Daniel Dunglass Home, of 22, Sloane-street, in
the County of Middlesex, one of the above-named de¬
fendants, make oath and say as follows:—
“ I was bom in Scotland on the 20th of March, 1838,
and from my childhood have been subject to the occa¬
sional happening of singular physical phenomena in my
presence, which are most certainly not produced by me
or by any other person in connection with me. I have
no control over them whatever: they occur irregularly,
and even when I am asleep. Sometimes I am many
months, and once I have been a year without them.
They will not happen when I wish, and my will has
nothing to do with them. I cannot account for them
further than by supposing them to be effected by intelli¬
gent beings or spirits. Similar phenomena occur to
many other persons.... These phenomena occurring in
my presence have been witnessed by thousands of
intelligent and respectable persons, including men of
business, science, and literature, under circumstances
which would have rendered, even if I desired it, all
trickery impossible. They have been witnessed repeat¬
edly and in their own private apartments, when any
contrivance of mine must have been detected, by their
Majesties the Emperor and the Empress of the French,
their Majesties the Emperor, Empress and late Empress
Dowager of Bussia, their Imperial Highnesses the Grand
Duke and Duchess Constantine of Bussia and the mem¬
bers of their august family, their Majesties the King of
Prussia, the late King of Bavaria, the present and late
King of Wurtemberg, the Queen of Holland, and the
members of the Royal Family of Holland; and many
of these august personages have honoured, and I be¬
lieve still honour, me with their esteem and goodwill, as
I hate resided in some of their palaces as a gentleman
and their guest, and not as a paid or professional per¬
son. They have had ample opportunities, which they
have used, of investigating these phenomena, and of
inquiring into my character. I have resided in America,
England, France, Italy, Germany, and Russia, and in
every country I have been received as a guest and
friend by persons in the highest position in society, who
were quite competent to discover and expose, as they
ought to have done, anything like contrivance on my
part to produce these phenomena. I do not seek, and
never have sought, the acquaintance of any of these
exalted personages. They have sought me, and I have
thus had a certain notoriety thrust upon me. I do not
take money, and never have taken it, although it has
been repeatedly offered me for or in respect of these
phenomena, or the communications which appear to be
made by them. I am not in the habit of receiving those
who are strangers to me, and I never force the subject
of Spiritualism on any one’s attention... . Some of the
phenomena in question are noble and elevated, others
appear to be grotesque and undignified. For this I am
not responsible, any more than I am for the many
grotesque and undignified things which are. undoubtedly
permitted to exist in the material world. I solemnly
swear that I do not produce the phenomena aforesaid,
or in any way whatever add in producing them,” &c.
“ I have been subjected to much persecution through¬
out my life, because of my conscientious belief as to the
meaning and great purpose of spiritual phenomena
taken as a whole. That belief I have not, like the
plaintiff, foresworn. I have always courted the strictest
investigation, although I have not condescended to
notice all the attacks and anonymous slanders that have
been circulated respecting me. The book shown to me
at the time of swearing this affidavit, marked H 8, con¬
tains a correct list of upwards of 1,300 letters, with the
writers’ names, which I still retain (after having de¬
stroyed about 10,000), written to me by persons of every
rank and class, including persons of the highest social,
political, literary, and scientific position, who have in¬
vestigated these phenomena, and corresponded with me
about them. After the fullest opportunities of examina¬
tion, they have formed different opinions as to their
origin and meaning; but I believe that all are
thoroughly satisfied of my entire honesty in the matter;
and lately, while the plaintiff’s base and unfounded
charges of fraud and imposition have been hanging
over me, and during the months of January and
February, 1868, these phenomena have been thoroughly
tested by another scientific man, named Mr. Hawkins
Simpson, the inventor of electrical apparatus, including
one for printing at a distance by the telegraph—a
drawing and description of which were, as I am in¬
formed and believe, given in the Engineer newspaper of
the 15th November, 1867.”
Omitting the remainder of Mr. Home’s affidavit,
the following evidence given by him before the
Dialectical Society, is of interest:—
“He had seen a pencil lifted by a spirit hand write on
paper in the presence of the Emperor Napoleon. This
took place in a large room, the Salon Louis Quinze. The
Empress was also present. The hand, after writing,
went to the Emperor, who kissed it; it then went to the
Empress; she withdrew from the touch, and the hand
followed her. The Emperor said, ‘Do not be fright¬
ened, kiss it! ’ She then kissed it, and it shortly after¬
wards disappeared. The writing was an autograph
of the Emperor Napoleon I. The Emperor of Bussia
had also seen and handled spirit hands, which after¬
wards seemed to melt away into thin air.”
The Emperor Napoleon has been at a great
many of Mr. Home’s seances, and Mr. Home was
asked by members of the Dialectical Society t®
state other things which had been observed on
those occasions. Mr. Home said that he did not
feel at liberty to state any more than the Emperor
was in the habit of telling himself.
WHAT IS THE USE OF SPIRITUALISM ?
Strange to say there are people who can ask
what is the use of communication with friends
and relatives, who have passed the great barrier
of the grave. One use of Spiritualism is, that all
Spiritualists who lead moderately good lives, are
found to gradually lose the fear of death. Spirits
through the agency of suitable media have much
power in the healing of diseases, and the removal
of deformities, though such power is far from
absolute. The following is a narrative, published
in Daybreak, of some of the powers exercised
through Mr. Newton, the best healing medium in
the United States; he is expected to visit England
in the course of the year 1870. The following ex¬
ample from a very boundless field of choice, is
enough for the present on the subject of the uses
of Spiritualism:—
‘Friday, May 22, of the present year (1868) will for
ever remain one of the most memorable days of my life.
It was on that day, when the sun was shining brightly
and bathing the world with its light and heat, that I
arrived at Newport, Rhode Island, and first came under
the healing powers of Dr. J. A. Newton. I had heard
of him through The Spiritual Magazine, Mr. William
Howitt, and Mr. Coleman, and was assured that if I
placed myself in his hands I should be speedily and
radically cured of the neuralgic affection in my head,
for which I had been suffering for eleven years. It was
not until I had become a little more familiar with some
of the facts and phenomena of modem Spiritualism
that I felt a quiet faith in the power of Dr. Newton to
remove my disease. Having once attained to that state
of mind, and becoming satisfied that it was my duty to
cross the Atlantic in search of health, I made arrange¬
ments for doing so, and left Liverpool for New York on
Saturday, May 9, arriving at the latter place on Tuesday
evening, the 19th. * * * * The moment Dr. New¬
ton and I met, I found in his face and simple kindly
manner a human image of the outside sunshine, and
but few words had been spoken when I was convinced
that the errand upon which I had come would be ful¬
filled. I was about to give him the history in detail of
my affliction when he stopped me by saying, ‘That
after I had been cured he would be very glad to listen
to anything I might wish to say, but that the cure itself
was the first matter to be attended to.’ He then poured
a large quantity of very hot water upon my head while
I was leaning it over a basin into which the water fell.
After my head had been dried with a coarse towel, I
was made to sit upon a moveable seat, similar to a
music-stool, the doctor standing behind me, and placing
my head against his chest with his hands crossed upon
my forehead. He then moved my head in various
directions until all at once a clicking noise was heard at
the top of my spine. The doctor immediately cried out,
‘ That noise is the sign that you will be cured; the dis¬
turbance of the nerve current has been removed.’ He
then faced me, and lifting both his hands towards
heaven, he looked me hard in the face, saying, ‘ Look at
me. In the name of God our Heavenly Father, and of
the Lord Jesus Christ the Great Healer, I bid this
disease depart from this dear suffering brother and
never more afflict him. It is gone—it is gone—it is
gone for ever, my brother; you are cured; rise up on
your feet and be cured.’ At that instant I felt a strong
current of new life flowing into and through every part
of my body, and I was conscious that I had entered
upon an altogether new phase of existence. From that
day to the present hour, July 13, I have been entirely
free from my pain, and have felt as well, I should think,
as it is possible for any human being to feel. Physically
speaking, I am a new creature; old things have passed
away and all things have become new. Of course it is
not for me to say absolutely that the cure will be per¬
manent, but, if I may judge from my present expe¬
rience, I see no reason why it should not be so.
"Wonderful as my case is, it is only one of thousands, so
far as Dr. Newton is concerned. He has cured almost
every form of disease, and removed almost every kind
of suffering. In fact, he appears to have done every¬
thing but raise the dead. And yet even he does not
cure all cases, and this failure enables him to keep alive
the consciousness that it is not he who cures, but God
who works in and through him He tells me that he
has cured something .like a quarter of a million of
people. * * * * Most of his cures are done without
fee or reward. In my own case he steadily refused to
take a single dollar, and I saw him act in like manner
towards several others. During my stay I witnessed
several instances of his healing power; some of them
being so manifest as to defy all attempts at explaining
them away. On the very morning that my own cure
was effected, I witnessed his cure of a paralytic who for
three years had been unable to walk without the aid of
crutches, and even then, only in a partial degree. Thiar
woman was brought by her parents to Newport, and, in
less than five minutes from the time when’ she came
under Dr. Newton’s hands, she got up from the couch
on which she had been laid, and walked away up the
street and back again, a full mile, and afterwards
walked and ran and jumped and danced, as so many
signs that her cure was a complete one. I also saw him
cure a young man who had a withered hand. Indeed, I
might have seen day by day, and hour by hour, ex¬
amples of this healing power had I chosen to have done
so. Every now and again, there are trains from Boston
and Providence freighted with the lame, the halt, the
blind, and the diseased, sometimes to the number of
500 or 600. These come to Newport, and a large majo¬
rity of them are sent away perfectly cured. In one part
of Dr. Newton’s house there is a room of considerable
size, full of crutches, sticks, spectacles, eye-shades,
bandages, and other memorials of disease and sickness
which have been left behind by patients as so many
signs and trophies of their cure.
* * * * * *
“ Frederick Rowland Young,
“ Minister of the Free Christian Church, Swindon."
There are very many healing mediums in the
United States, who can do good only in certain
diseases, or whose powers are so feeble that suc¬
cessful results may with more probability of accu¬
racy be put down to the imagination of the
patient.
A great use of Spiritualism is that it demon¬
strates the immortality of the soul. But why
ask, “ Of what use is Spiritualism ? ” for here the
thing is in our midst as much a part of nature as
the trees, the clouds, and the flowers, and as it
cannot be abolished there is no alternative but to
subject it to investigation, or to look [on in igno¬
rance.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
32
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 31, 1869.
Kobody shall enter it, and that there shall he no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy ■weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or siz individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an im-
oovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
aerld feeling against them is a weakening influence.
g. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes," one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of medimnship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a j
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle. It usually takes several years for any
medium to attain full power, and it is not an
•uncommon although not an everyday thing, for
chairs and other articles to move about in the
presence of a good well-developed physical medium
without anybody touching the articles at all. This
fact effectually disposes of Faraday’s “unconscious
muscular action ” theory. Some have suggested
that the phenomena are all mental, since mental
conditions influence their production, and that
those present all believe they see and hear things
which they do not in reality see and hear. The
answer is that there is sometimes such a noise
with improperly powerful manifestations that the
sounds are heard all over the house by persons
not in the room; the furniture sometimes gets
broken by movements of too violent a character,
and the broken portions remain as evidence that
the phenomena were not of a mental character.
The upholsterers’ bills which result also serve to
convince that the occurrences are facts. The
higher spirits seem to have little power over
common matter, and the highest communications
are not usually obtained through physical mani¬
festations.
There are in England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. When any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-half in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece of music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can cany
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
'Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
Every human being is surrounded by an atmo¬
sphere which to the spirits is luminous and mate¬
rial, and this atmosphere is largely used by the
spirits in the production of the physical manifes¬
tations. Baron Beichenbach, while he knew
nothing of Spiritualism, discovered by experiment
the presence of unknown forces emanating from
human bodies, and published the results in his
Researches on Animal Magnetism. All the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism draw temporarily upon the
vital powers of those composing the circle, but
the medium is the chief source of energy.
A still atmosphere and subdued light in the
room are favourable conditions for the physical
manifestations.
SPIRITUALISM AND MEN OP SCIENCE
Sir J. Emerson Tennent once invited Faraday
to a seance at which Mr. Home was to be the
medium. Faraday wrote and asked for a pro¬
gramme of the manifestations, and as nobody
knows beforehand what will take place at a circle
any more than the details of an expected star-
shower can be given in advance, it was not pos¬
sible to comply with his demand. Faraday also
required an answer to the following questions,
among others, before attending:—
“■Would he [Mr. Home] be glad if their [the manifesta¬
tion's] delusive character were established and exposed,
and would he gladly help to expose it, or would he be
annoyed and personally offended? [The italics in this
sentence are not in the original.]
“ Does he consider the effects natural or supernatural ?
If natural, what are the laws which govern them? or
does he think that they are not subject to laws? If
supernatural, does he suppose them to be miracles, or
the work of spirits? If the work of spirits, would an
insult to the spirits be considered as an insult to
himself? ”
Mr. Home took no notice of the above insults,
and, it is believed, never wrote Faraday in the
first instance, or took any notice of him whatever.
He never even saw his letters.
Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., in a note dated May
8, 1868, commenting upon Faraday’s letter just
mentioned, wrote:—
“I hold myself in readiness to witness and investigate,
in the spirit of the foregoing letter [of Faraday’s], such
phenomena as Mr Home may wish to reveal to me
during the month of June.”
A few days previously Mr. Home had written
in the Pall Mall Gazette:—
“ It will give me pleasure to meet Professor Tyndall,
and any two gentlemen he shall designate. On my side
I shall have at least two gentlemen whose names and
position place them above the suspicion of aiding or
abetting a fraud. I will meet Professor Tyndall and
these gentlemen when and where they please, and
under such circumstances as they may decide on. I
must only crave their patience if nothing should occur
at the first, or even the second, siance."
From that day to this Dr. Tyndall has not
accepted the above invitation.
A demand for a programme where no programme
can be given, and the writing of supercilious
letters in reply to civil invitations, amounts prac¬
tically to a refusal to observe faots. Dr. Tyndall,
and men who act like him, are recommended to
bear in mind the following words of Galileo :—
“ Oh, my dear Kepler, how I wish that we could have
our hearty laugh together. Here, at Padua, is the prin¬
cipal professor of philosophy, whom I have repeatedly
and urgently requested to look at the moon and planets
through my glass, which he pertinaciously refuses to do.
"Why are you not here ? What shouts of laughter we
should have at this glorious folly; to hear the Professor
of Philosophy at Pisa, labouring before the Grand Duke
with logical arguments, as if with magical incantations
to charm the planets out of the sky!"
A little society known as the Dialectical Society,
is now investigating Spiritualism. It numbers
among its members many shrewd and intelligent
men, belonging chiefly to the legal and medical
professions. Spiritualists watch its proceedings
with a moderate amount of interest; nothing that
any man or body of men may say or do can alter
the established phenomena and laws of nature.
THE LITERATURE OF SMRITUALISM.
The literature of Spiritualism now consists of
several hundreds of volumes, good, bad, and indif¬
ferent, and almost entirely of American origin.
Among the best volumes on the subject are Mrs
De Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit (Longmans)
with a preface by Professor De Morgan, President
of the Mathematical Society of London; The
Planchette, by Epes Sargent; Spiritualism (2 vols.),
by Judge Edmonds and G. T. Dexter, of New
York; a History of Spiritualism, by Emma Hard-
inge; and The Autobiography of Andrew Jackson
Davis. An interesting book, consisting simply of
narrations of facts witnessed at remarkable seances,
is Incidents of My Life (Longmans), by D. D.
Home. The Saul of Things, by Denton, is a curious
book indirectly connected with Spiritualism, and
worth reading. Those unacquainted with Spiri¬
tualism are recommended to read these books in
the order in which they have just been mentioned.
The only large lending library of Spiritual books
in Great Britain is that belonging to Mr. J. Bums,
15, Southampton-row, High Holborn, London,
W.C. The English periodicals on the subject
are, The Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, Day¬
break, and The Spiritualist.
ADVICE TO INQUIRERS.
Those who know no intelligent Spiritualists,
and nothing about Spiritualism, yet who want to
investigate, are recommended to begin by reading
the first two books mentioned in the preceding
paragraph. Then they should call upon the chief
publisher of Spiritual books in London, Mr. J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom (where they
are sure to be treated with attention and courtesy),
and ask for the names and addresses of say four
good professional or non-professional mediums,
accessible to the public, and “ recognised by Spiri¬
tualists as reliable for powerful physical manifes¬
tations.” There are plenty of mediums or of people
who fancy themselves mediums, who can rarely show
anything satisfactory, and with whom an inquirer
might waste much time. He should then get say
two sittings by daylight in his own house with
each of the four mediums, because the power
varies in strength at times with every medium;
at the end of the eight sittings he is sure to be
thoroughly interested in Spiritualism, and to have
thrown overboard the imposture theory, which is
the clumsiest and most superficial one of all.
Many of the public have vague ideas that electri¬
city can do all kinds of unaccountable things, but
A GENUINE MEDIUM NEVER HAS ANY HESITATION
IN SITTING WITH A CIRCLE IN A HOUSE AND AMONG
FURNITURE WHICH HE OR SHE HAS NEVER SEEN IN
his or her life before. Even with a good
medium it is best, if time be valuable, not to
investigate at crowded public circles, because,
assuming imposture to be at work, there is no
telling who may not be aiding, among the
numerous spectators. Besides, where so many
people want to ask questions of the spirits, the
investigator has not time to put many himself.
Investigators are recommended to be thus careful
in the selection of mediums, because as public
attention is gradually more rivetted upon Spiri¬
tualism, impostors are sure to spring up, and even
to advertise in Spiritual periodicals, for the editors
manifestly cannot investigate the claims of every
professing medium. At present (November, 1869)
there is very little imposture mixed up with the
Spiritual movement in Great Britain, and there are
only four or five paid mediums in all London.
Good paid mediums deserve high praise rather
than that censure which is thrown upon them even
by Spiritualists; they find house-room; they are
ready to receive strangers at stated times when
private circles could not sit for the convenience of
inquirers; the sittings exhaust their vitality like a
hard days’ work, and they have to put up with
much abuse when uneducated roughs unaccus¬
tomed to investigation persecute them by attend¬
ing. The inquirer should mention to the medium,
civilly and kindly, his doubts respecting the
phenomena he may witness; the invisible beings
around will at once, on the spot, do their best to
remove those doubts, or an explanation will be
obtained from the medium. When there is real
foundation for suspicion, the best plan is to go
often to the medium, accompanied by witnesses,
detect the imposture, and prosecute the medium
for obtaining money under false pretences.
Genuine manifestations are not under the control
of the medium, so that a paid medium who does
not get manifestations, is under a great temptation
to try to make them. This fact makes it difficult
for Spiritualists to speak absolutely as to the relia¬
bility of any paid mediums, however genuine the
majority of the manifestations may be which occur
in their presence. After getting thoroughly inte¬
rested in Spiritual phenomena, the inquirer should
take his friends to see them, and afterwards get up
a private circle in his own house. Manifestations
will most likely not be obtained at the first sitting,
but after very few or very many sittings they will
come; gradually the great barrier of the grave
which now separates friends will be broken down,
and after the experience of a year or two the
dread of the beautiful natural process, called
“ death,” will be destroyed, as it is destroyed in
the minds of all experienced Spiritualists, except
those who during life have done harm to their
fellow-creatures. Very high spirits and their
homes are perfectly invisible to very low spirits;
this, coupled with the fact that there is no more •
uniformity in the next world than there is here,
accounts for the endless contradictions about spirit
life given in Spiritual communications.
An investigator of a logical and scientific turn of
mind may possibly have to closely follow up the
subject for soine weeks before gaining the absolute
knowledge that the manifestations come from
spirits. Unlike Mr. Home and a few other excep¬
tional individuals, most mediums are developed
for one or two special purposes only. Thus, vio¬
lent physical manifestations, inexplicable by any
of the recognised laws of matter, may be seen in
the presence of one medium, but mental tests and
questions may bring forth a majority of inaccurate
and unreliable answers. Where good mental tests
are obtainable through a medium, the physical
manifestations may be altogether absent.
There are so few public or semi-public spirit
circles at work in London, and the pressure for
admission is so great where the manifestations are
good, that the best plan for novices is usually to
try to get manifestations at home among their own
friends.
JOSEPH BARKER’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
Now ready, neatly bound in cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Teachings oe experience; or,
Lessons I have Learned on my Way through
Life.
London: James Beveeidge, 9, 10, 11, Fullwood’s-rents,
Holbom, W.C.
HUMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Recent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures; Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. JAMES Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holbom, London, W.C.
THE PROGRESSIYE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Sonthampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Reading-Room supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Room for the special use of Ladies and Subscriber’s;
Private Rooms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Blanchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
I Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“Home for Spiritualism" and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C.
The spiritual magazine, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT, the Chief
Weekly Newspaper on Spiritualism in the United
States, may be ordered through Mr. James Burns, 15,
gouthampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
MR. J. L. OLIYE, Professor of Modem
Spiritual Science, 1, Gibson-place, Warrington-
crescent, Maida Yale, W. Mr. Olive is prepared to afford
information relative to Spiritualism, the Development of
Mediumistic power, &c., with facilities for investigation
of Phenomena. Reliable advice based on large medical
experience, and aided by beneficent Spirit Intelligences,
may also be obtained for the relief of ailments of Body
or Mind. Consultation Fee, One Shilling.
TO LIFE POLICY-HOLDERS. — The
recent disclosures in the Chancery Court indis¬
putably prove that neither the antiquity of a life office
nor the magnitude of its income, affords to the public
any security that the premiums they have paid for the
purpose of securing a snm of money to their families’
may not be frittered away in costly amalgamations, of
jeopardised by fire, marine, or accidental risks.
In order to remove this insecurity the BRITISH IM¬
PERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION was esta¬
blished on the principle substantially adopted by Her
Majesty’s Government for small policies, and carried out
through the medium of the Post-office.
The Life Funds of the British Imperial Corporation
are placed beyond the control of the Directors, being in¬
vested in the Government Funds (for the sole purpose
of meeting policy claims) in the names of trustees, who
act independent of the Directors, and solely on behalf of
the policy-holders.
The system of investing Insurers’ net premiums in
Consolidated three per cent. Annuities in Trustees’
names for the sole purpose of meeting Policy Claims,
combined with the creation of a number of Separate
Trusts, presents entirely new elements of security to
Insurers.
Any section of the community who are dissatisfied
with the ordinary plan of entrusting their premiums to
the care of the Directors of a life office may, without
cost or risk, constitute themselves into a separate sec¬
tion of the British Imperial Corporation, and appoint
their own trustees to control the life insurance funds
contributed by them.
Chief Offices for London:
20, COCKSPUR-STREET, PALL-MALL.
TpEMALE
MEDICAL
Vice-Patrons:
SOCIETY,.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Right’Honotirable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G,
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgato-street, KG
Honorary Secretary:
[James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary :
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers :
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ^
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to ladies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drift; d into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practiti, new still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have already availed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to he crossed London and County Bank.
'VTO. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
_Ln ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that the facts of Spiritualism are true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
Society by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and'should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first,
and should be ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
the possession of the early friends of the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 3s. each.
London; E. W. Ailen, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; or J,
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
(Contents.
The Testimony of a Spirit  25
Testimony of a Non-Spiritualist  25
Evidences of Spiritualism ...  26
Reports of Meetings :—Stances at the Spiritual
Library.—Seeing Mediumship—Mr Clegg of York
—Somnambulism—^Disturbing Influences at Cir¬
cles—Purgatory—Body, Soul, and Spirit—^Progres¬
sion in the Animal World—Spiritual Communica¬
tions—An Earth-bound Spirit—Earthly Impedi¬
ments to Development—The Formation of the
Spirit Worlds—Grindstones—Audible Spirit Voices
—Departed Friends  26.
Private Siances.—Clairvoyance—Spirit Magnetism—
The Deity—Jesus of Nazareth—The Double—Me¬
diumship—Martyrdom—The Future of the Physi¬
cal Body — Bodily Deformities — Undeveloped
Spirits—Capital Punishment—Responsibilities of
Judges—Spirit Poetry—Spirit Voices—Seeing Me¬
diumship—Table Motions without Contact with
Human Beings 27
General News:—A Newspaper Burlesque—The
Dialectical Society—Tien SienTie—Spiritualism in
East London—The Philosophy of Spiritualism—
Spiritualism in South Wales 28
Leaders:—The Nomenclature of Spiritualism—
Scenery in the Spirit World 29
Poetry :—Spirit Verses—Extract from the “ Mourn¬
ing Bride”—Night  30
Correspondence:—The best way to spread Spiri¬
tualism  30
Society ~.      30
Book Notices:—^Purpose and Passion ... .... 30
Answers to Correspondents  30
Paragraphs :—Agassiz on Education, 26—The Royal
Institution, 26—Pauperism and Emigration, 29—•
The Two Ghosts, 30—The Welsh Fasting Girl, 30.
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St George the Martyr, London, and published by E.
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
