AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 119.—(Yol. Y.—No. 23.) LONDON: DECEMBER 4, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents,
BBITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Foreign Notes   ...    ...265
Arsenic discharged from the System by Mesmerism     265
Friendly Union among Spiritualists. By the Baroness Adelma Yay ... 268
Disturbanees'by Spirits at Markethill, Ireland  269
Mrs. Bullock’s Soiree .;. ...   ...   269
Private Seances:—Seance at Dr. Speer’s—Direct Spirit Music—Spirit
Lights—Pearls and Pieces of Coral brdught by Spirits—Seances with
Mr. Williams—A Materialised Spirit Floating in the Air—Seance at
Miss Ponder’s—Fine Spirit Baps—Conditions influencing Physical
Manifestations—Seance at Dalston—Mrs. Bassett’s Mediumshio—
Seance at Mr. Davis’s—Flowers and Scents brought by Spirits—
Materialised Spirit Forms—Powerful Physical Manifestations—
Seance at Mr. Martheze’s—Mr. Williams in Brighton—Seance at Mr.
Hinde’s—Mrs. Everitt in Darlington—Seance at Mr. F. Everitt’s—
Mrs. Everitt in Bishop Auckland—A Table-Cloth projected upwards
by Materialised Spirit Bands...  269
Correspondence:—The Confession of a Naughty but Troubled Spiritual¬
ist-Forewarnings of Death—Mr. Gerald Massey’s Lecture at
Greenwich — The Cause of the Phenomena of Spiritualism —
Spiritualism Unveiled—The Cooks town Disturbances ...   ... 273
Answers to Correspondents ... ...   ...  276
Paragraphs Spiritualism in Belfast, 275;—Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cookes Entertaiment, 275; Trance Lecture at Goswell Hall, 276;
The Difficulties of Inquirers, 276; A Voice from India, 276;
Spiritualism in Swansea;.. •   276
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 $ 26 Viet, cap. 89)
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members;
Yrastees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
William Berry, Esq., John Brown, Esq., Courtenay Clarke, Esq., Arthur
lago, Esq., Lord Frederick H. Kerr, M. E. Marsden, E-s i., A • • Martin,
Esq.,, M.A., F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq.,
Major J. C. Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
‘ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
“ A.” Death only.
£
1000
500
250
100
1000
500
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
£ s. d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 • 6 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
110
0 11 6
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
Paymt
within
Two Yrs
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
‘ B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
0 0
0 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
2 2 0
13 0
12 6
0 12 6
12 6
0 12 6
AGENT—MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
BERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road. Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT YEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
MRS. J. W. JACKSON
WILL deliver a SERIES OF THREE LECTURES, at
the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square. W., on Wednesday the 9th December, Wednesday 16th
December, and Wednesday 23rd December, on the respective subjects of
WIT AND HUMOUR, SYMPATHY, AND THE INSPIRA¬
TION OP MEN OF GENIUS.
Tickets of Admission to the course, £1 Is. 0d., to be obtained at j!l,
Green-street, previous to the commencement of the lectures.
Each Lecture to commence at Three o'clock.
‘ INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
Alexander Calder, Esq., The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.; Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &e., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
. from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 4, 1874.
THE LIVERPOOL PSVCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lamont, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. Gh Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the diseoyery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to he practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc-
1 tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercoui^e, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
^ALSTON ASSOCIATION OE ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s, hal^yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.-
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
or Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimptpn, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
hooks on kindred subjects in stock. •
Recently published, in Crown Svo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c.- London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere &' Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown Svo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
t.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid fo r on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. . Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Spiritualism and reform. “ The Banner of Light ”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription-in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Taree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown Svo
Price 21s:
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412,' cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown Svo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown Svo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig*
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. B
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. Svo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
A discussion will take place at above address as follows:—
Wednesday, Hoy. Uth.—“Atheism, its influence on Society.” Opened by
Mr. Cain.
November, 18<5.—“The Theological Devil.” Opened by Mr. Freehold.
November, 25tt.—“ Readings from the Poets, &c., &e.”
December, %nd.—“Astrology—Is it true?” Opened by Mr. T. W.
Shearing.
December, 9<A—“Protestantism and Prostitution.” Opened by Mr. G.
F. Tilby.
Charles Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD- STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
mWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
JL and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of- Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-coinmunion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
rilHE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial ipaper covers, 152 pp., Svo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the .path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their, divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode..
The mathematical discovery increases' the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools. .
“PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.”
THIS is so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, as follows:—For No. 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, 10s.; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. Cd.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4. All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.   
HENRY B. B U S H,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0. ■
14, HIGH-8TREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
jl
VOtUjVIE FIVE. J^UJVIBE^ TWENTY-TH^EE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4th, 1874.
CJxe Spntualist JltbD'spapr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings pfer inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Ookrespondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the ^Friday’s issue should reach the office not' later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '■'•The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always he informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then he ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H; Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberfy-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
rjjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Ojjlces—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
FOREIGN NOTES.
The Revue Spirite advertises a French translation of
Mr. Wm. Crookes’s Notes of an Enquiry into the
Phenomena called Spiritual.
The Messager oi the loth Nov. gives the result of
the means of cure brought to M. Stassin at a spirit
circle at Brussels, as related in the article, Spiritualism
in Foreign Countries, in No. 108 of The Spiritualist.
M. Stassin writes : “ Having suffered for four years
from a nervous malady and from internal inflammation,
I have made use of all known remedies without effect;
whereas now, after two months’ treatment by means of
Spiritualism, I find myself almost entirely cured.”
M. Augustin Padilla, member of the Mexican Con¬
gress, and President and founder of the Spiritist Society
at Guadalaxara, and M. Puginier, of Bordeaux, are
said to have acquired photographic mediumship from
sitting with M. Buguet.
We have received from Melbourne several well-
written tracts on Spiritualism by Rev. J. Tyerman,
being chiefly reprints of lectures delivered at the Poly¬
technic Hall, where, as well as at the Masonic Hall,
Spiritualistic services are held every Sunday evening,
admission free. One of these tracts treats of the
doctrine of reincarnation, and gives well-considered
arguments for the author’s rejection of that doctrine.
Hell, The Devil, and Orthodoxy are among the subjects
of other tracts.
Mr. Tyerman also sends us A Guide to Spiritualism,
a volume‘of 144 pages, containing chapters on per¬
sonal experiences, the testimony of eminent witnesses,
the literature of the movement, theories, reasons, and
teachings. It is written clearly and forcibly, and in a
liberal spirit; it forms, by virtue of ' these qualities,
and a considerable amount of information from good
sources, an excellent guide for novices. The “ religious
difficulty” part of the question, in particular, is well
handled.
ARSENIC DISCHARGED FROM THE SYSTEM BY
MESMERISM.
A year or two ago we republished from one of the
back numbers of The Zoist, the chief incidents relating
to the cure of a lady suffering from a complication of
diseases, her renovation being due to successful treat¬
ment with mesmerism, by Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, who
gave almost daily personal attention to the case for
months. At the outset, Mrs. Bird, who resided near
Exeter, suffered from epileptic and other fits, neuralgia,
delirium, tumours, vomiting, and a coating containing
arsenic extending over a portion of the interior of the
stomach. It was not known that the coating was'
there, till she revealed it by clairvoyance; while under
mesmeric influence she foretold that it would be
loosened and vomited, also that it would be found
266
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 4, 1874.
to contain arsenic; likewise, all through the treatment
she by prevision foretold the course of the disease and
the time of her fits, as will be seen on reference to the
extended diary published by Mr. Luxmoore. The
ejection of arsenic caused much contention at the time
in the West of England, and as the circumstances are
of considerable interest in connection with the science
of mesmerism, we quote the closing portion of Mr.
Luxmoore’s article. It was published at the time that
Dr. Elliotson edited The Zoist:—
Much has been said respecting the substance which
Mrs. Bird ejected from her stomach, and of course the
antimesmerists in the neighbourhood cannot be induced
to believe one word about her having vomited any sub¬
stance containing arsenic. Some report that we assert
she vomited pure arsenic ; others insinuate that the
substance which I say she vomited did not come from
her stomach, but was placed in her mouth, and from
thence ejected merely for the purpose of deception;
and this they considered proved when it was discovered
that Mrs. Bird had caused arsenic to be purchased some,
little time before she vomited the gritty substance. I
was aware of this months before they said a word about
it; Mr. Parker knew it at the same time it was procured ;
and who, will it be supposed, was our informant ?
Why, Mrs. Bird herself! The fact is, the arsenic was
never in her possession, but was brought by the chemist
of whom she purchased it for the purpose of his using
it in her garden, mixed with salt, to destroy slugs.
The evening proving wet, he came over the next
morning and buried it in the earth. During the night
it was in Mrs. Bird’s house; a person at the time stay¬
ing with her had it locJced away and kept the key, so
that Mrs. Bird did not know where it was placed; and
had she, there were no means of her getting at it.
As I am one of those foolish people who condescend
to believe what they see, my opinion on the subject
would not have been altered if Mrs. Bird had kept any
quantity of arsenic in her possession. I assert (and I
flatter myself that at least those who know me, and whose
opinion I value, will not doubt my word) that on two
occasions a gritty substance, subsequently found to
contain arsenic, was in my presence ejected from Mrs.
Bird’s stomach. As to her having concealed it in her
mouth, that is quite out of the question, for she could
not, during the time I was with her before it was
ejected, have spoken plainly had there been anything
in her mouth. Besides which, how was she to get it
into the state in which it is ? for anything less, like
arsenic can scarcely be conceived. In one point of
view it is, perhaps, unfortunate that Mrs. Bird should
have purchased arsenic at this particular time, as it
enables uncandid people to insinuate that the said
arsenic has been used for the purposes of deception.
But, leaving out of view the circumstance of both Mr.
Parker and myself knowing all about her having pro¬
cured the article, Mrs. Bird’s openly sending for arsenic
is, I think, a clear proof that no trick was intended,
and strongly confirms my statement that she, on
arousing, recollects nothing that has taken place during
her sleep-waking. An impostor would not, I should
say, do what would lead to certain detection. Added
to this, the watery rash, garlic eructations, and pain
in the calves of the legs, are indications of the presence
of arsenic in the system. All these she experienced
and complained of to Mr. Parker, long before mesmerism
was even named in this neighbourhood.
Once more; must not the system, from some cause,
have been much paralysed to allow of very good sal
volatile being taken with only two parts out of three
water? and I have, at the time she prescribed it for
herself, often seen her take it of that strength. I hope
I shall be excused this digression, as I feel, on Mrs.
Bird’s account, strongly on the subject, she having been
branded as an impostor by those who can know nothing
of her case.
My friend Mr. Janson'has examined the ejected sub¬
stance under a powerful microscope, and is satisfied it
is not a mechanical mixture.
Mr. Herapath, the eminent chemist, has published the
following letter in the Western Times :—-
To the Editor of the Western. Times.
Bristol, Dec. 2nd, 1846.
Sir,—My attention has been called to a controversy which
has, for some time, been carried on in your city, upon the
reality of certain exhibitions and statements in relation to
mesmerism, and I have been solicited by the exhibitor on one
side, and opponent# on the other, to express an opinion upon
the possibility of a large quantity of arsenic (enough to kill 20
men) remaining in a living stomach for many years, and then
of having been thrown up during mesmeric clairvoyance. Of
course in the absence of more definite information I could, in
reply, merely state that no such case had ever occurred in my
experience, or within the course of my reading. Since then,
Mr. Parker, surgeon, of Exeter, the exhibitor and advocate of
mesmerism, has called upon me with the matter said to be
ejected, and having expressed a wish to have all the facts
enquired into, I obtained from him a small portion of each of
the two packets, one of which he said had been caught and
identified by a gentleman who was present at tho time of
ejection, and the other which had not been so identified. I
have submitted those to chemical enquiry, and I find them to
be nearly alike in appearance and chemical composition. They
are pulverulent, and slightly agglomerated, the colour whitish
—or rather white, with a shade of brown. The microscope
show's the structure to be crystalline, and capable of depolar¬
ising light; they contain one-twentieth part of their weight of
arsenious acid, combined with lime as arsenite of lime; the re¬
mainder is crystalline carbonate of lime, with a little organic
matter of animal origin. I did not weigh what I saw in Mr.
Parker’s possession, nor have I any means of knowingthe entire
weight of what was said to beejected—whatlreceived was half a
grain of the identified, and four-tenths of a grain of the other,
and I should judge them to be a tenth part of what I saw. If I
am right in this, the total quantity of arsenious acid in it would
be under half a grain—a quantity certainly not enough to kill
an adult human being, and especially as it is partly neutralized
by lime, which, to a certain extent, destroys its poisonous
qualities. The smallest quantity of uncombined arsenious acid
which is recorded as destroying life from its action on the
stomach is six grains, and that was in the case of a child.
Such a compound as that I refer to might be formed if
“ arsenical solution,” arsenite of potassa and lime water, were
mixed together in a neutral solution containing animal
matter; ” but I cannot understand how it could remain in a
human stomach for years, knowing as I do that the contents
of almost every stomach are acid, from the presence of free
hydrochloric acid and biphosphate of lime, both of which
would constantly tend to dissolve and decompose it.
I have neither the time nor the inclination to be drawn
into a controversy of such a length as this appears to be, and
I would respectfully recommend tbe belligerents to abandon
the mere expression of opinion, and to resort to the applica¬
tion of practical tests to prove or disprove the possession of the
powers claimed—thus stramjers with diseases not apparent
might surely be subjected to the clairvoyant by disinterested
persons. If she judges rightly in a majority of cases, a favour¬
able opinion would follow, and in the Exeter Infirmary
patients about to submit to surgical operations could be mes¬
merised—if only two or three of them underwent the operations
without feeling pain more would be done to establish mesmerism
than by writing hundreds of columns in newspapers.—I am,
sir, your obedient servant, William Hebapath,
It will be observed that Mr. Herapath considers both
Dec. 4, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
267
the specimens given to him by Mr. Parker “ nearljT
alike in appearance and chemical composition.” Dr.
William Gregory, to whose report I shall hereafter
refer, coincides in this opinion. I therefore consider it
proved that the substance ejected in my presence, and
what was before vomited, are essentially identical in
their contents. With regard to Mr. Herapath’s asser¬
tion that he cannot understand how it could remain in
the human stomach so many years, &c., it must be
taken with the due consideration that, although a most
eminent chemist, be is not, I believe, a medical man ;
and also that the question was put to him, as to arsenic
enough to kill twenty men. I should before have stated
that the entire quantity of gritty substance ejected by
Mrs. Bird is about one drachm. It has been stated
that Mrs. Bird took but a single half ounce of liquor
arsenicalis, which would contain rather more than two
grains of arsenic. This is not the case, as Mr. Parker
well knows from statements received when he in 1834
became her sole medical attendant. The liquor arse¬
nicalis was sometimes procured by her late husband,
and sometimes by a servant. Mr. Bird, being in a
public office, was in the habit of purchasing things at
different chemists who frequented the office in which
he was engaged. I mention this, as a druggist in
Exeter has stated that only once did he make up a
prescription for Mrs. Bird containing arsenic. Her
then medical attendant, from whom Mrs. Bird received
the greatest kindness and attention while under his
care, frequently himself brought medicines in his
pocket for her; but whether that containing liquor
arsenicalis formed any part of them, we have no means
of ascertaining.
I now with great pleasure come to the analysis and
opinion of Dr. William Gregory, Professor of Chemistry
in the University of Edinburgh ; but before doing so,
I confess my utter want of language adequately to
express my sense of the obligation we are under to
him for the unremitted attention he has paid, and
trouble he has taken, to determine the contents of the
substance submitted to him, and also for allowing us to
publish so full a report of his labours and opinions.
Dr. Gregory, it will be recollected, is not only a chemist,
but also an eminent physician, and the translator of all
Liebig’s works on chemistry known in this country.
Dr. Gregory's Analysis, extracted from a letter addressed to
Mr. Parker.
297 milligrammes of the powder, about 4’5 grains, were
boiled ten times in succession, each time with about 80
grammes of distilled water, and the solutions filtered, united,
and evaporated to dryness in the vapour bath. The liquid
when very concentrated became covered with a film, which is
the case with a solution of arsenite of lime. A little organic
matter, of a brown colour, separated towards the end of the
evaporation, but when dry the residue was nearly white, the
organic matter being masked by the arsenite of lime- It
weighed, after being heated for a longtime at 212°, 45*5 milli¬
grammes. This dried mass had all the characters of a similar
one obtained by boiling arsenite of lime with water, and drying
up the solution. In both cases the film appeared, and if any
crystallisation existed in the dry mass, it was very confused in
both.
The mass was dissolved in boiling water and filtered from
a little organic matter which had become insoluble, or at least
was not dissolved by this smaller quantity of boiling water.
The solution in both cases was slightly alkaline to very delicate
test paper, indicating the presence of basic arsenite of lime. It
gave a yellow precipitate with nitrate of silver. In short, the
solution was a nearly pure solution of arsenite of lime. Iq
order to have a control for the quantity of arsenic present, I
acidulated the liquid with hydrochloric acid, and precipitated
the arsenic by a current of sulphuretted hydrogen gas. The
sulphuret of arsenic was formed very abundantly, and of a
perfectly pure yellow colour. After standing in a warm place
till all the smell of sulphuretted hydrogen was gone, the liquid
was thrown on a filter, and the sulphuret of arsenic well
washed. It was then dissolved in ammonia, the solution
dried up, and the residue, sulphuret of arsenic, with a trace of
organic matter, after being heated to 212° for half an hour,
that is till it ceased to lose weight, weighed 30-0 milligrammes,
equivalent to 24T milligrammes of arsenious acid, or to 44'9
milligrammes of basic arsenite of lime.
The matter dissolved from the powder by boiling water
therefore consisted of—
Basic arsenite of lime   44 9 milligrammes.
Organic matter and loss   0-0 ,,
45-5
And it contained 24T milligrammes, or about 0,372 of a grain
grain) of arsenious acid.
That portion of the powder which had not been dissolved
by the boiling water contained the carbonate of lime, coloured
by organic matter. It was dissolved, as well as what remained
on the filter through which the boiling solutions had been
filtered, in dilute hydrochloric acid ; the solution neutralised
by ammonia, (which was added in slight excess, but caused
no precipitate, indicating the entire absence of phosphate of
lime), and precipitated by oxalate of ammonia. The precipi¬
tate was collected on a filter, well washed and dried. After
being heated to 212°, till its weight became quite constant, is
weighed 340 milligrammes, equivalent to 233 milligrammes of
carbonate of lime. I should have said that the greater part
of the organic matter remained undissolved when the original
carbonate was acted on by hydrochloric acid, but its quantity
was so small, and it adhered so tenaciously to the filter, that
it was absolutely impossible to make a determination directly
of its weight. It gave out when heated on platinum a smell
of burnt animal matter, and no doubt contained a little albu¬
minous or gelatinous matter.
The result of the whole analysis, therefore, is as follows:
Carbonate of lime  233 milligrammes, or 3,989 grains,
Basic arsenite of lime ... 44-9 „ 0.372 „
Organic matter and loss.. 19T „ 0T38 ,,
297 0 „ 4-500 „
Or in 100 parts—
Carbonate of lime    78*45
Basic arsenite of lime   i  15*11
Organic matter and loss  *... 6*44
10000
The proportion of arsenious acid m 100 parts is therefore 8'll.
Before analysing the powder, I again examined various
portions of it under the microscope, and in many instances I
perceived some irregular fragments, having a decided appear¬
ance of crystallisation; but the mass of powder is amorphous,
under the weak power which I employed. The crystallised
portions have not in any degree the aspect of the powder of
arsenious acid; they much more resemble grains of carbonate
of lime ; and the observations of Mr. Herapath, made with a
higher power, show, I have no doubt correctly, that the mass
of the powder is crystalline carbonate of lime.
Prom all these observations, joined to those in my former
letters, I am decidedly of opinion that the arsenious acid
present in the powder is entirely in the state of arsenite of
lime, and that it consequently has not been introduced into
the stomach or into the powder in the form of the powder of
arsenious acid.
Considering that your patient took the arsenic in the form
of the liquor arsenicalis, and was at the time in the habit of
taking ime water, (a very unchemical prescription, by the
way), it is quite easy to see how arsenite of lime should be
formed in the stomach along with carbonate, and once formed,
its great insolubility would not only account for its being
found there after so long a time, but would also explain how
so considerable an amount of arsenic should remain in the
stomach without producing dangerous or even fatal effects.
At the same time it is quite possible that a very small portion
might occasionally be dissolved, and produce some of the
toxicological effects of arsenic as long as it remained. We
must bear in mind, too, that the arsenite of lime, besides its
own insolubility, was further protected by the presence of
carbonate of lime in large excess, and of agglutinating organic
matter, which must have defended it from solvent action.
That it must have been agglutinated is obvious, otherwise it
could not have remained in the stomach ; and there pan, I
568
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 4, 1874,
think, be no doubt that, from the very peculiarly morbid
state of the stomach and digestive powers, the solvent energy
in this case was reduced to a minimum, and that1, when the
patient’s health began to improve, and her stomach to assume
in a greater degree its normal powers, the agglutinating
matter was absorbed, and the insoluble mass, thus disinte¬
grated and more exposed to solvent action than before, may
have excited vomiting, and thus caused its own rejection.
The physical appearance and chemical character as well as
the composition of the powder, indicate very clearly that it has
been the result of slow action, the organic matter being equally
diffused in every part. It is out of the question to suppose that
the powder could have been formed artificially by mix¬
ing arsenious acid with carbonate of lime ; for the arsenious
acid has certainly not been introduced as a powder. I should
say it has been precipitated in the stomach by degrees, carry¬
ing with it some organic matter, as all precipitates do in
animal fluids; and I look on the characters of this powder as
demonstrative evidence that it has been formed by a slow pro¬
cess-in the stomach.
From what I have already said, you will perceive that I
do not see any reason why such a powder, enveloped no doubt
in organic matter, should not have remained in the stomach
for any length of time, as long as it formed a coherent mass,
and that without destroying life. The arsenite of lime is so
insoluble in water, and above all in cold alkaline solutions,
that I should not hesitate to take a considerable dose of it. I
should think a very large quantity would be required to de¬
stroy an animal, and the experiment might be made; always
remembering that when enveloped in a large excess of car¬
bonate of lime, and agglutinated by organic matter, it is still
more insoluble than when pure. - I do not therefore entertain
a doubt, that 60 grains, of this powder, containing thOG grains
of basic arsenite of lime, equivalent to 4,86 grains of arsenious
acid, might, under the circumstances, remain for any length
of time in the stomach without producing fatal effects;
although the patient might suffer in some degree from its
presence. It is not certain that 4 or 5 grains of arsenious acid
would prove fatal even if pure and uncombined, although it
might probably do so. But it is probable that there was
originally much more of the powder, and that it has gradually
yielded to the solvent actions to which it has been exposed.
The symptoms observed, more particularly the vomiting and
garlic eructations occurring after the use of salt, would seem
to indicate that some portion, no doubt a very minute portion,
of arsenic has been in some way dissolved, possibly by free
hydrochloric acid, and has then acted on the system from
time to time ; and it is probable that, had no marked change
taken place in the health of the patient, the same slow process
of solution might have continued for an indefinite time. A
sudden increase in the action of the absorbents has apparently
hastened the termination of the process, and disintegrated the
offending mass or concretion, so that the residue of it has been
ejected from the stomach.
The question having been specifically put to me, whether
the gritty powder had the appearance of mixture recently
made with a view to imposture, I have no hesitation in saying,
that it does not appear to me to possess in any degree the
characters of such a mixture. The crystalline carbonate of
lime, I think, must have been, slowly formed in a solution
containing organic matter, and the uniform diffusion of the
organic matter in the powder leads to the same conclusion. It
seems to me exceedingly improbable that an impostor should
have thought of converting the arsenious acid into arsenite
of lime; and had the powder been a mixture of the kind sug¬
gested, the arsenious acid in all probability would have ap¬
peared in it uncombined, and in the form of white grains, of
which there is in fact no appearance.
Even supposing an impostor to have known the mode of
formation and the chemical characters of arsenite of lime, I
consider it in the highest degree improbable that he should
have been able to form such a powder as that which I have
examined.- I am sure that to imitate it would be a very diffi¬
cult task for the most dexterous chemist.
(Signed) William Geeooet.
.Mrs. Bird has for years had an insurmountable dis¬
like to salt (first engendered by the unpleasant eructa¬
tions previously alluded to), and consequently she never
takes any with her food; hence it is more than probable
that she has less hydrochloric acid in her stomach than
is foitnd in that of most other persons, and this would
account for the arsenite of lime being so little acted on.
by the gastric juice. J. C. Ltjxmookb.
Bose Mount, Alphington, Devon.
It is impossible for us to publish this case without ex¬
pressing our admiration of Mr. Luxmoore’s indefatigable kind¬
ness to the afflicted lady. He resides nearly four miles from
her house, is a private gentleman, and a county magistrate,
and his arduous exertions were prompted solely by benevo¬
lence and the love of scientific truth.—Editob or Zoist.
FRIENDLY UNION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.*
BY THE BABONESS ADELMA VAT.
I cannot tell you with what disgust I read Mr.
Howitt’s articles in the Spiritual Magazine against our
society, which consists only of most honourable,
religious Christians ; he attacks therefore each one of us.
I have already had my pen in hand with the intention
to write to that gentleman, and I would have told him:
“Sir, I also am a Christian ; I believe in God, and in
our Lord Jesus, and try to follow His first command¬
ment of love to God and to our neighbour. Charity
is, I believe, a true Christian’s first virtue. Jesus never
condemned ; but in the moment of greatest affliction
healed the ear of the soldier who came to seize Him ;
and when the disciples told Him,f we saw some who
healed the sick, but not in Thy name,’ He answered,
f Let them alone; they who are not against Me are for
Me.’ I, though a foreigner, soon found out that the
National Association spoke first as our Lord Jesus
spoke. | Let them all come to Me ; the afflicted ones,
the Christians, the heathens, let them all come, and in
the bosom of a society consisting of honourable men
and women, speak out their wants, their thoughts, and
their experiences. We will hear and love them all,
and not only the orthodox Christians.’ ”
So speaks this Society, and we thinking people of
different creeds are most thankful to the British National
Association for her true Christian feeling; and for us,
who cannot find such a platform for speaking out on
the Continent, we shall gather round her and tell all
our opinions and experiences, so that we may learn the
truth by collecting and comparing the experiences of
all. And, Mr. Howitt, we shall not be a house of
fools, nor of heathens, nor of swindlers; but we will
be one in the wish of doing good and seeking the truth
after the example of Jesus. We shall have no feeling
of hatred, such as you show, against those who are not
orthodox Christians. Jesus knew no orthodoxy; he
did not despise reincarnationalists; he did not even
despise the outcast women nor the murderer on the
cross; but it is as true that Jesus was badly treated
for this liberalism and love. And so we, members of
the British National Association, a society which de¬
serves the name of the National Society of Christian,
love and justice, we will cast out nobody, no fool nor
erring one; such as these are spirits,, and require
especial care and love, and above all, a home wherein to
rest their aching hearts and find relief.
If you think well to give publicity to this outburst
of my indignant heart against the coarse attacks of
Mr. Howitt, who calls himself a Christian, then pray
do so, and give my name with it.
Obdees for the proposed illustrated Spiritual periodical
are coining in in an unbroken stream; our friends are requested
to put all their energy into the undertaking. Particulars will
be published next week.
* Extracted from a letter by the Baroness von Vay to Miss Kislingbury.
Dec. 4, 1874.
269
THE SPIRITUALIST.
DISTURBANCES BY SPIRITS AT MARKETHILL,
IRELAND.
The Markethill correspondent of the Belfast News
Letter, in a letter to that journal, written on Monday,
last week, says :—
“Another ghost story, well authenticated, similar in
all respects to that which has made Cookstown notorious,
has gained currency in the quiet little village of Market¬
hill and its vicinity. Many of the inhabitants feel
not a little alarmed, and firmly believe that the effects
which they have seen could only be produced by a
supernatural agency. The scene of these, as many
suppose, Satanic manifestations, is the house of a man
named Sharpe, in the townland of Drumnama'ther,
within two and a half miles of Markethill, on the
Tandragee-road. Mr. Sharpe and his family, who
are weavers, and occupy a small bit of land adjoining
their dwelling, are well liked in the neighbourhood,
and have always lived on the most cordial terms with
their relatives and friends. No member of the family
ever studied the art of performing by sleight of hand,
nor has any one else in that whole neighbourhood, so
far as can be ascertained. . The heartless destruction of
the property of these innocent people and the great
annoyance to which they have been subjected seems
altogether inexplicable. The Markethill police have
frequently visited the house in which the depredations
have been committed, but the agents in the work of
destruction hold them in utter contempt. Several
beds, numbering seven, I believe, have been burned.
Bed clothes, wearing apparel of all kinds, and webs of
cloth have been cut in a zigzag way as with a sharp
knife. Stones have been thrown and windows broken.
Noises are constantly heard in the house as of a person
jumping on the floor. Eor some three or four months
past these and similar performances might have been
witnessed daily, and still go on. The. family have
retired from the house at night, but come to it during
the day. A constable who has frequently visited it
told me that a man, who alleged he was from Poyntz-
pass, came to the neighbourhood and made inquiries
about the ghost in Sharpe’s, and intimated that if he
got a trifle he would banish it.”
MRS. BULLOCK’S SOIREE.
On Thursday evening, last week, the soiree for Mrs. Bullock’s
benefit took place at the Goswell-hall, Goswell-road, London.
The chair was taken at eight o’clock by Mr. Barber.
The Chairman said that he was glad to see so many friends
meeting to do honour to Mrs. Bullock, for if one person more
than another deserved to receive honour, it was herself. For
months past she had given her services on Sunday evenings
without fee or reward. He felt sure they would all agree with
him that she was justly entitled to their heartiest sympathy
and support.
Messrs.Wallace and Son, Miss Eagar, Miss Keeves, Mr.Owen,
Mr. Cogman, and others, then spoke respecting the public
labours of Mrs. Bullock, and declared their friendship for her
as a sister Spiritualist. Several songs, recitations, and inspira¬
tional poems were given in the course of the evening.
Mrs. Bullock, in the trance state, responded to the remarks
as follows:—It is indeed with the deepest feelings of humility
on our part that we stand before you to-night, to thank you for
the love and sympathy you have shown towards our beloved
medium. It is for this purpose you have met this evening,
and it is for this purpose that we desire this meeting to be
made a lasting blessing to each individual. It is not our inten¬
tion on this occasion to speak of the various vicissitudes
through which our medium has had to pass, suffice it
to say that notwithstanding all her trials and troubles,
she has had the greatest, the richest blessing that any
medium could indeed be rewarded with, viz., that of the peace
of her own conscience, the consolation within her own breast
that she has not lived for self, but for the good of others. For
this purpose she stands before you to-night, even to tell you
that it is our intention to use her as best we can to further
the cause of Spiritualism, and furthermore to teach mankind
how to live so that they may best enjoy life, not only in this
world, but in the next. We tell you, friends, that Spiritualism
brings peace, comfort, and consolation, to every troubled
breast; there is no pang of sorrow, or of pain, which some
kind spirit friend is not ready to alleviate and remove. Inves¬
tigate Spiritualism, friends, and you will find it to be to you a
door of sweet communion with loved ones, not dead, but gone
before. “ We do not wish to speak further of this matter on this
occasion ; we simply wish to thank you, beloved friends, for
that amount of tender sympathy and love which you have
shown towards our medium, even by your loving presence,
loving looks, and loving words—even by the care you have
bestowed upon her, even by each one doing his best. Each
has given his mite, each has done his duty, and He who does
not permit the birds to perish without His knowledge,
will not allow the kindness you have shown towards our
medium to fall to the ground unnoticed; it shall be to
you as seeds sown in your own breasts, springing up
and bringing forth fruit even for eternity. We feel our¬
selves unable to express our gratitude and thankfulness; we
leave it to your own souls to reap each one his own reward.
G-od bless and prosper the. work which we have undertaken
to do through this our beloved instrument; and whilst we say
this, we also say, God bless the humble efforts of each one of
you; unite always in a grand and harmonious circle; then, as
on this occasion, angels will hover o’er ye, bringing glad
tidings of peace and joy. Friends, adieu! May the angels
indeed bless you evermore. Amen.
After a few words from Mrs. Bullock in her normal condi¬
tion, and a few further remarks by the chairman, the soiree,
which was in every sense of the word a success, was brought
to a satisfactory termination.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
SEANCE AT EE. SPEEE’S—DIEECT SPIEIT MUSIC—SPIEIT
LIGHTS—PEAELS AND PIECES OP COEAL BEOUGHT BX
SPIEITS. '
Last Sunday night a seance was held at the residence
of Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edinburgh),
Douglas House, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood,
London, N.W. The medium was the gentleman
through whom the Spirit Teachings, occasionally pub¬
lished in The Spiritualist, are given, and the witnesses
present were Dr. Speer, Mrs. Speer, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
The first part of the seance was held in darkness for
physical manifestations. Soon after its commencement
some direct spirit music was heard, there being at the
time no musical instrument of mortal make in the room;
delicate sounds, known to the regular sitters as the
“ fairy bells,” broke the dead stillness which otherwise
pervaded the room, and the music bore some resem¬
blance to that which is given by a glass harmonica, or
musical glasses. These beautiful effects were produced
by a spirit of the name of Kabbila, who says that he
was an old Arabian philosopher. Another spirit,
Grocyn, then gave, a few musical notes, like deep
violin sounds, almost double bass: Dr. Speer stated
that at previous seances trumpet-like sounds were pro¬
duced. There are instances on record of beautiful
music having been heard above the beds of the dying;
and the spirits state that the phenomenon is allied to
that which they are now developing at these seances.
Scented breezes then swept gently round the circle;
’first came a strong perfume of gardinia, next of ver¬
bena, and lastly a little musk. There was a gardinia
in the room at the time, and at these seances the spirits
habitually extract the scents from any flowers that may
be near. The medium says that he has known them to
270
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 4, 1874.
extract the natural odour from a flower, and to charge
it with another, making a rose, for instance, to smell
like a violet, but the flower then quickly withers and
dies. Sometimes they put the foreign scent upon one
part of the flower only; that part then turns brown
and withers. When the medium is not well, the spirits
apply a remedial process, one effect of which is that
the scents of various flowers exude from the crown of
his head, near the hack, from a space of about the area
of a crown piece. Last Sunday night his head could
he seen to be quite wet with scent at the part just
mentioned; if the weather is bad, if he meets with
unsympathetic people, or if he attends a public meeting
where the influences are mixed, scent now always
begins to ooze from his head.
Paint spirit lights, visible to normal eyesight, floated
about the room. The medium, by clairvoyance, saw a
rose-coloured light or cloud about Mrs. Speer, a bluish
haze around Dr. Speer, and a golden cloud around Mr.
Harrison. When the. sitters were not mentally passive,
but became argumentative, these luminous clouds con¬
tracted, and appeared to be disturbed by interior waves.
Eaps were plentiful, and noises came from the chair
of Dr. Speer.
The spirits are constantly bringing small pearls,,
pieces of coral, and stones of various kinds to the
medium; they drop near him one or two at a time, at
all parts of the day, for instance, a few generally fall
on the table during dinner. Sometimes he sees hands
carrying them ; the fingers point downwards ; the stone
or pearl is suspended a few inches below the points of
the fingers, and is connected with them by a luminous
streak ; the fingers open, and the stone drops. One night
he woke up to see a luminous hand above him, and a
stone glowing like a luminous pea, suspended below
the fingers. The hand opened, and a precious stone
dropped on his chin. He struck a light to examine it,
and found it to be of a brown colour exteriorly, but in¬
teriorly flashing with iridescent hues.
Towards the close of the seance a light was struck,
and Imperator, the chief guardian spirit of the
then entranced medium, delivered an address, on the
management of spirit circles. Mr. Harrison took the
remarks down in shorthand, and they will shortly be
published.
SEANCES WITH ME. WILLIAMS—A MATERIALISED SPIRIT ELOATING
IN THE AIR.
Last Saturday a private seance took place at the
rooms of Mr. C. E. Williams, 69, Lamb’s-conduit-
street, Holborn, London, W.C., at which Mr. Charles
Blackburn, of Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester,
attended with a friend whom he wished to convert to
Spiritualism ; the other witness present was Mr. "W. H.
Harrison, of Chaucer-road, Herne-hill, London, S.E.
Mr. Blackburn’s friend searched the room, then held
one of the hands of Mr. Williams, who sat on one side
of him, and both the hands of Mr. Harrison, who sat
on the other side of him. Mr. Blackburn held the
other hand of Mr. Williams. Under these conditions
musical instruments flew about the darkened room like
bats, played tunes on the heads of each of the sitters in
turn, and materialised spirit-hands fingered theheadsand
hands of all the sitters very freely; a spirit-hand
seized the hand of the inquirer and pulled it up
towards the ceiling, even when he rose from his seat
and stood on tiptoe as high as he could reach.
Last Monday morning the same sitters had another
private seance. Mr. Blackburn’s friend searched the
room most thoroughly, and gazed keenly up the chimney
without discovering anything suspicious. He shifted
and examined the cabinet, and opened and examined
the two little cupboards. Then he tied Mr. Williams
in his own way to the seat in the cabinet with cord,
nobody else interfering in the matter. Afterwards he
sat at the table outside the cabinet, held both the
hands of Messrs. Blackburn and Harrison, after which
the light was extinguished. The musical instruments
flew about as before, hands pulled each sitter in suc¬
cession as high as he could reach when on tiptoe.
John King and Peter talked, though not very much,
and soon John King, robed in white drapery, appeared
with his phosphorescent lamp. He floated several
times steadily up to the ceiling from different parts of
the room, and knocked against and illuminated the
ceiling to make clear that he was really there ; he also
floated over the head of Mr. Blackburn’s friend. The
latter at last said that he “gave in,” and could not
account for the phenomena in any other way than as
explained by Spiritualists. He expressed regret that
certain eminent philosophers did not examine and
certify the facts, under the mistaken impression that
the voice of authority can make the public accept a
new truth before the time of that truth has come.
SEANCE AT MISS PONDER’S—EINE SPIRIT RAPS—CONDITIONS IN¬
FLUENCING PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Last Friday a seance was held at the house of Miss
Ponder, 11, Hayter Yillas, Brixton-rise, London, S.W.,
and the sitters present were Miss Ponder, Miss E. D.
Ponder, Mrs. Budd, Mr. Earl Bird, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison. The medium was Dr. Monck, of Bristol.
He had held two sittings earlier in the day, so at first
had not much power, but rumbling noises and muffled
raps came from the table. Later in the evening, and
after a break in the seance, the power was stronger, so
much so, that the loud raps obtained might have been
heard outside the house. The telescopic dining table
was opened so as * to make a crack three inches wide,
down which the table-cloth drooped ; spirit-hands
several times raised the drooping cloth from, below, and
elevated it several inches above the level of the table.
While the hands and arms of everybody, including
those of the medium, were in full view, Miss E. D.
Ponder was startled two or three times by something
coming from below the table and grasping her wrist;
it was probably a spirit-hand, but it disappeared too
rapidly for a clear view of it to be obtained. An
accordion was tied tightly with string, then enclosed in
a pillow-case, the mouth of which was also closely tied
up by means of half a dozen double knots. While it
was in the hands of the entranced medium, who was
shaking violently, Mr. Harrison played on one of the
keys through the pillow-case, and a musical note re¬
sulted ; he felt warm air issuing from the orifice.
Dr. Monck thinks that his breath is used in some way,
to produce musical sounds with a tied accordion. He
also feels a strong pull at his lungs, when spirit-fingers
raise table-cloths from below.
He shakes and shivers for a minute when the spirits
draw power from him; then there is a pause of a few
minutes, as if the spirits were preparing to do some¬
thing with the power; then, at the moment of pro¬
ducing a manifestation—say raising the cloth—his
head is drawn down towards the rising cloth, and his
hands tremble over it; the spirits draw power at
Dec. 4,1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
271
the moment from the head and hands. After solid
objects have been much moved, the muscles of his
arms ache, showing that power has been drawn from
those portions of his organism.
SEANCE AT DALSTON—HKS. BASSETT’S MEDIUHSHIP.
On Thursday, last week, there was a semi-private
seance at the rooms of the Dalston Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
London, E. Among the observers present were the
president, Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. A. Corner, the
Misses Corner, Mrs. Edward Corner (Florence Cook),
Mrs. M. T. Ward, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, Mr. Wm.
Braham, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr., Mrs., and Master Cook,
Mr. T. Blyton, and Mr. Wm. H. Harrison. Mrs.
Bassett was the medium. Yoice manifestations were
obtained, also a few raps and spirit lights. The spirit
James Lombard, maintained an interesting conversa¬
tion for about an hour, and Charles Dalman said* a few
words. A notice of the seance was published yesterday
in the Hackney Guardian, the local organ of the Con¬
servatives.
SEANCE AT MB. DAVIS’S—FLOWERS AND SCENTS BROUGHT BY
SPIRITS—MATERIALISED SPIRIT FORMS—POWERFUL
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
We have received the following letter :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—On Sunday evening I attended a seance at the house
of Mr. Davis, Underwood-street, City-road, and was strongly
requested by the controlling spirit to send to The Spiritualist
a report of what I had seen and heard.
There were present sixteen persons, all, with two exceptions,
being mediums of more or less development. With such a
concentration of power, manifestations of great variety and
perfection were easily produced. After the usual preliminary
arrangement by the guides of the individuals composing the
circle, we all joined hands at some distance from the table,
and the light was extinguished. Immediately raps began on
the table, at first faint, then very loud ; and some answers to
questions were thus given. Next scent was scattered profusely
round the circle—so profusely that it seemed literally to rain
scent for a few seconds. Then flowers were brought, snow*-
drops and violets, and thrown into our bosoms and laps fresh
and of delicate odours ; those I brought away have retained
their fragrance to the present time.
Next a hand, large and as real as any human hand, though
cold, was laid upon mine, but I was not allowed to grasp it;
and presently one was laid on my head while another took
hold of my foot. Meanwhile musical instruments were brought
into play. A child spirit (Mrs. Davis’s little son), by means
of a mouth-organ shaped some words of communication with
his parents. Some simple airs were played on an accordion by
another spirit, who, the sitters informed me, was Mozart; I
fear, however, there must be some doubt on that point, a re¬
quest of mine for one or two bars of any one of his melodies
being declined. A tambourine was next vigorously beaten,
carried all round the room and up to the ceiling, and tapped
on the heads of the company. The front of the piano was re¬
moved and the strings strummed with invisible hands. Fresh
sounds continued to be heard, until at last there was a united
chorus, with plenty of power if not much harmony, of ten or
a dozen instruments, most of them floating about the room,
with loud knocks and thumps on the table and elsewhere, to¬
gether making a din almost deafening. This subsiding, a
noise as of the tearing of paper was heard; then hands were felt
by all present to be busy with their heads and hair; presently,
as directed, a light was struck, and a ludicrous scene resulted,
for all the heads of the sixteen sitters appeared in curl papers
—the masculine portion of the assembly having been
honoured with the largest share of attention in thi^ direc¬
tion. The laughter having ceased, and the heads having
been restored to something like their normal condition,
we again relapsed into darkness. Spirit lights were next
introduced, which floated about for some time in graceful
curves.
Finally a crowded tapping of heads by materialised hands,
accompanied by another tremendous chorus of the combined
instruments, terminated the dark seance.
The light was now turned on, and the company were
arranged in concentric arcs facing one of the corners of the
room. Across this corner was drawn a curtain, reaching from
a height of about eight feet to the floor, and leaving an open
space between the top and the ceiling. A single chair was the
only object left in the recess thus formed. Two of the
mediums, Messrs. Eglington and Haxby, now retired (empty-
handed) behind the curtain, and a vigorous singing of hymns
was commenced by the sitters outside. After some little time
a dark hand was exhibited above the curtain, and was pre¬
sently protruded at the sides. The singing was resumed, and
soon a turbaned head with a dark complexioned face and black
beard, slowly made its appearance over the top, remaining in
view about a minute. The singing being continued the head
presently again appeared, slowly mounting to the ceiling, and
surmounting a form materialised to the waist. The figure
remained visible for a short time, bowing gravely to the com¬
pany, and then disappeared. I should here say that the
“ Pasha,” as he is termed, was addressed and welcomed by
the habitues of the circle as an acquaintance.
By direction of the guide, singing was now resumed more
lustily than ever. After a lapse of perhaps ten minutes one
side of the curtain was gently pushed forward, and the “ Turk ”
in full form and habiliments slowly emerged and stood before
the company, a space of only about two feet intervening
between him and the nearest sitter on that side. After allow¬
ing a good view of himself he retired, and presently emerged
in a similar manner on the other side, remained in full view
a short time, and then withdrew.
This closed the materialisation seance, which was satisfac¬
tory in the highest degree.
Several minor incidents of more or less interest connected
with the evening might be mentioned, as, for instance—on
entering the circle I was volubly accosted in an unknown
tongue through one of the mediums by an African spirit;
another, through a second medium, informed me that he had
met me at another circle; my head was patted by the hands
of spirits professing to be near and dear friends. I was pro¬
mised some good tests on a future occasion ; and a personal
description was given to another gentleman of a spirit present
whom he recognised as his wife.
The manifestations were under the superintendence of a
spirit named Joe Landon, formerly an American clown—a
jovial spirit, and much interested in his work. It is devoutly
to be hoped that the power possessed by this circle may be
eventually utilised for the public good. Albert Snow.
North End, Hampstead, Nov. 23rd, 1874.
SEANCE AT MR. MARTHEZE’S—MR. WILLIAMS IN BRIGHTON.
The Sussex Daily Hews of Nov. 25th, says :—
A contributor writes to say that Mr. Williams, a well-known
spirit medium, paid a visit to Brighton on Sunday, and gave a
seance at the residence of Mr. J. N. Tiedmann Martheze,
Palmeira-square, on the evening of that day. Some sixteen or
seventeen ladies and gentleman constituted the circle, which
included the members of the host’s family, Captain and Mrs.
Weatherley, Captain Sandeman, Mr. and Mrs. H. Collen, Mr.
Curtis, Mr. John Bray, Mr. W. Gill, &c. During the first
sitting the whole of the company were touched by so-called
spirit-hands, and the hands of several of them were lifted up
as high as they could reach, even though they stood upon a
short pair of steps that were moved up to the circle, and
eventually lifted over their heads on to the table. A watch,
ring, and pocket-book, were also taken from the pockets of
Mr. Martheze, and conveyed to other persons in the circle;
and the voices of “John King” and “Peter” were likewise
heard, and were identical with the voices of those soi-disant
spirits as they present themselves at Mr. Herne’s seances. At
the second sitting Mr. Williams, who is a young man of some
four or five and twenty, was bound in a chair in a part of the
room over which a curtain was drawn, and what purported to
be a materialisation of “ John King” appeared with his lamp,
a luminous substance of about the size of a turkey egg, of a
bluish-green colour, which diminishes in brightness as it is
taken from the spot where the medium is sitting. With the
aid of this light several glimpses of the face of “ John King ”
were caught, at one time fully a yard from the chair where the
medium was sitting, and both Mr. Martheze and a lady aver
that they were touched with the lamp. On the light being lit
Mr. Williams was found apparently in a state of unconscious¬
ness, and bound to the chair much in the same condition as
I he was when the gas was put out,
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 4, 1874.
SEANCE AT ME. HINDE’S—MBS. EVEEITT IN DABLINGTON.
Mr. T. P. Hinde writes to us, Nov. 18th :—
Last Sunday evening, a seance was held at my house,
Cobden-street, Darlington. Ten ladies and eight gentlemen
were present; three of the visitors were members of the
Society of Friends, and two of them strangers to spiritualistic
phenomena.
The seance was opened with a hymn, then spirit friends, by
raps, requested the following scriptural passages to be read :—
Ezekiel, 3rd chap., 8th verse ; and 11th chap., 1st verse ; also
Acts, 2nd chap., 1st verse, concluding with mental prayer;
this was most appropriate for the occasion, Quaker friends
being present.
The lights were extinguished. It was found, after singing
one or two hymns, that the conditions were not quite so
favourable as could have been wished, the spirit lights being
very few and small. The perfumes were most profusely
bestowed upon the circle, so much so, that we who had sat
before with Mrs. Everitt, remarked how abundantly they were
given to us. The direct spirit voice was very satisfactorily
evidenced to all present by the rapid motion and effectual
manner the sound was conveyed, coupled with the extraordi¬
nary wit and logical correctness of'the remarks. Unfortu¬
nately, want of power was apparent throughout the seance,
and John Watt; the spirit, soon brought the proceedings to a
close.
We then adjourned to the drawing-room for a little refresh¬
ment, and, as we thought, for the remainder of the evening;
but not so our invisible friends ; we were scarcely comfortably
seated round a bright, cheerful fire, when the impression came
so strongly upon our dear friend Mrs. Everitt to have a further
seance (this time composed of the family only, six in number),
that Mr. Everitt at once endorsed the same, and without any
delay we returned to the seance room.
The lights were hardly extinguished, when three very heavy
blows were dealt upon the table ; some rolls of paper were up
to the ceiling, and then beating the sitters and chandelier in
rapid succession. A most striking phenomenon then occurred;
small child-like fingers patted my forehead and hair; the
spirit proved himself by the direct voice to be a little boy of
mine, who has been in spirit life about three years. Larger
hands touched and pulled the hair of Mr. Everitt and Mrs.
G. E. Hinde, at times rather too strong to be pleasant. In one
instance a shawl was dragged most vigorously from the
shoulders of Mrs. G. E. Hinde. About this time our dear
mother (who entered spirit life last year) was announced as
near me, and through Znippy, entered into conversation with
the family present, communicating directions and informa¬
tion important to each member of the same.
At this stage our attention was suddenly directed to a noise
near myself on the floor; it sent a thrill through my whole
frame, as well as that of my brother, sister, and wife present;
it was the well-remembered sound of mother’s rocking chair,
with the creaking of her boots bending to the motion of the
chair. This is one of the most wonderful imitations I have
ever had the good fortune to record in my life’s experience ;
it was sufficient in itself to bid any one to halt and examine
into the truthfulness of this grand philosophy for themselves.
Suddenly we noticed the chair had become vacated, the foot
had ceased creaking, and the sound of the rockers gradually
died away, until all was again silent. Mother had gone on to
continue her mission of love and usefulness to others most
demanding her presence in their midst.
Here John Watt came with his kind and faithful counsel
and advice for our future mutual welfare, bringing to a close one
of the most remarkable and profitable seances ever witnessed
through Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship. This opinion was fully
borne out by Mr. T. Everitt, who stated that, for the variety of
phenomena in rapid succession, he had never known a more
satisfactory seance in all his experience.
SEANOE AT ME. E. EVEEITT’S—MBS. EVEEITT IN BISHOP AUCK¬
LAND—A TABLE-CLOTH PBOJECTED UPWABDS BY MATEBIALISED
SPIBIT HANDS.
An anonymous letter published in the Durham
Chronicle says :—
On Tuesday, November 3rd, I received an invitation from
Mrs. F. Everitt, of Bishop Auckland, to attend a seance at
their house the same evening. Knowing that her sister-in-law,
Mrs. Thos. Everitt, was the medium, and having heard of her,
I gladly availed myself of the opportunity. I attended at
eight o’clock, and found myself in the company of nine ladies
and gentlemen, all of whom, with the exception of Mr. Thomas
Everitt, his wife, and another lady, were known to me. We sat
round a large mahogany dining table, measuring about six
feet by four, which was covered by an ordinary table-cloth.
Proceedings were commenced by the singing of one of Ira
Sankey’s hymns, during which I could hear the time being
kept by distinct though not loud raps upon the table. After
the hymn we were asked by raps to read certain portions of
the Bible, which was done, after which we sang again, being
accompanied as before. I must here state what should have been
stated before, that Mrs. Everitt is not a paid medium, but is
the wife of a gentleman of independent means, and she cannot
therefore be suspected of trickery for the sake of obtaining
money. After the second hymn, Mr. Thos. Everitt, after stating
that the conditions would be improved by lively conversation,
asked the spirits if they would lift the table-cover, and being
answered in the affirmative, the table was opened in the
middle about three inches and the cloth pressed down, the
opening thus forming a small trough. After a little while
the cover in this trough was seen to rise in different places
as if lifted by the fingers of some one underneath. We
all then in turn placed our hands in the opening, and
all were touched by fingers apparently as solid as our
own. Up to this time we had been sitting in the light
of two gas burners, but now the spirits asked for dark¬
ness and the lights were turned out. Another hymn
was commenced but was not finished, for the room
suddenly seemed full of a beautiful perfume. While we were
talking about this another delicious perfume struck our senses
in cool waves, as if the atmosphere of the room were put in
motion, laden with the aroma of flowers. I remember four
distinct kinds of perfume, but cannot think of any scent
they resembled. After this a number of beautiful lights
appeared in various parts of the room. These are called
spirit lights, and what was peculiar about them was, that
though some of them were very brilliant, they had no rays as
ordinary lights have. Mr. Eyeritt explained that the spirits
produced these lights by opening our atmosphere and giving
us glimpses of theirs. While we were talking about the
lights I was startled by a strange voice saying, “ Good
evening, how are you all ? ” This I was told was Znippy, a
spirit who always attends seances held by Mrs. T. Everitt.
The voice seemed to belong to a person who was both witty
and wise, for he kept up a lively and instructive ^conversation
for over half-an-hour. On Monday night, I sat again, when,
in addition to the lights And the spirit voice, the table was
lifted off the floor without human contact. A large musical
box, weighing about fifty-six pounds, was put on the table
and while it jplayed some lively airs, the table danced an
accompaniment, though no one touched it with the exception
of the medium, who rested the tips of her fingers upon the
table-cloth. After the seance, I tried to ascertain the weight
of the table, and found that with the box upon it, I could just
manage to lift one end. One of the sitters, Mr. James Faucett,
described a spirit who, he said, was present, so accurately,
that a young gentleman, a representative of one of the Auck¬
land papers, admitted the description exactly tallied with his
remembrance of his grandmother.
^otrespmtlience.
[Gnat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE CONFESSION OF A NAUGHTY BUT TBOUBLED
SPIRITUALIST.
Sib,—I almost deeply repent my letter in your last, for it
contains expressions of anger on my part, which bear evident
marks of lost self-control and temper; these memories come
back to me with reproach, when I look at the kind letter I
have just received from my friend in Yienna. I overheard
the voice of sincere and warm regard in the midst of the roar¬
ing of fanatical scepticism. But we poor deluded ones are
often severely put to the test in the matter of patience, and I
believe I shall draw up many a recollection of a fellow-
sufferer by the following little picture: There is a loving,
really genuine friend; with quivering lips, moist eyes, he
entreats you—“ Oh, dear friend, give up that damnable non¬
sense ! Come back to the high road of common sense, and
(this now is the secret meaning) return to the holy temple of
sweet materialism, and (perhaps) the tender arms of the
grandmother of his majesty 1 ” We, overcome with emotion,
throw ourselves sobbing on his breast; but in meantime
clench our fist to give the impudent fellow a mark of affection
between his ribs. I must also apologise for some harsh terms
THE SPIEITUALIST.
273
Dec. 4, 1874.
towards my countrymen here, although the provocations must
in part explain my fault. A letter from a distinguished
Spiritualist of high rank, just come to hand contains these
lines: “Against the ruling systematic persiflage (abuse) in
Germany against Spiritualism, every word is too much !” A
further very hitting remark may be quoted at a future time,
when the position of the different creeds towards the facts of
Spiritualism shall be brought to light. My allusion to the
noise of excited animals must not be taken as the outcome of
my present ill-temper; it is only a repetition of an idea
which often crosses my mind. Every new discovery, especially
when it upsets long established habits of thought—con¬
sequently material comforts—causes agitation among mankind.
It is like the entrance of a stranger into a farm-yard. The
dogs bark, and the whole lot joins in a chorus of alarm, and
even Master Grunt, in his remote corner, comes in with his
short but decisive remarks. Who does not remember the
vulgar, “ Get yer off!“ of that brute, when the innocent white
dove alights peacefully to pick a grain too near the selfish
monster ?
When the producers of this chorus perceive that the stranger
is on good terms with the governor then the noise sub¬
sides, the dogs wag their tails and creep back, and Master
Grunt tries a soft sweet air. The only real grudge I feel
towards my friends is, that nobody asked me once, whether
the story of my conversation with my learned friend in Vienna
was quite true. They eagerly circulated the paper to enjoy the
fun, but avoid being disturbed by inviting me for a little
closer examination. A young gentleman whom I rather liked,
refused even my offer to enlighten him with the other side of
the view, I thinking him kindly disposed towards me. “ No,”
he says, “ I don’t take any interest in the matter !” That was
one for me. Never mind. When I now crave pardon for my
past naughtiness, I take advantage of the friendly reply and ask
for a little forbearance in advance, should I now and then
slip once more. To show my real earnestness, I now solemnly
declare:—I totally renounce my former belief in the facts of
Spiritualism. I am converted, and not any more a believer,
therefore, forgive dear friends, when I replied to your insulting
allusions as to idiots, fools, and fanatics, with similar unkind
language. I give in now, and discard any further belief in
these facts (I bow after tremendous applause) for they are true
and established. Chbistian Eeimees.
2, Ducie Avenue. Oxford-road, Nov. 23.
FOEEWAKNINGS OP DEATH.
Sir,—The following case, for the truth of which I can
answer, may be interesting to psychologists in connection
with the one narrated by Mr. Dunphy’s friend.
The lady who has been the subject of this strange visitation
is nearly related to some of my own most intimate friends.
They are well-informed and intelligent people, and the lady
herself is a cheerful practical person, actively benevolent, and
far removed from anything like superstition or morbid fancies.
Many years ago, when going upstairs, she suddenly saw a
figure going before her. It was grey, and so undefined in
outline, that she could not tell whether it were a man or
a woman. It disappeared suddenly as it came. The next day
a near relation died.
This figure has appeared, at intervals, seven times. Each
appearance has been followed almost immediately by the death
of a relation, a friend, or some person belonging to the house.
Its form became more distinct after the first time, and she
used to speak of it as the little grey man. The last and
seventh time of its appearance she had been left in the house,
one servant having gone home ill, and the other having
accompanied the invalid, whose illness was not supposed to be
dangerous. The lady, requiring some beer for a friend, went
to the cellar to draw it, but soon returned in great agitation,
saying that she knew that (the servant) would die, for
she had seen the little grey man. He came before her as she
stood by the beer-barrel. The servant died next day.
If the explanation offered in a letter to The Spiritualist of
November 20th be thought to meet the case of Mr. Dunphy’s
friend, it certainly cannot throw any light upon this. The
occurrence of the vision, or whatever it was, as many as
seven times, each time being the precursor of a death in the
family, places the connexion of the two events (the apparition
and the death) beyond coincidence, and, I think, beyond the
region of delusion or imagination. Even if it were thought
that the anxiety and excited feelings of the seer in the case of
the illness or death of those who were dear to her had brought
her mind into a morbidly painful state, this could not be true
in the last instance, when it was not a relation who died, and
when the death was unexpected.
I am very far from believing that every apparition is to be
referred to the presence or agency of spirits, but it seems to
me that it Lis better to wait till a few more facts bearing
upon the question can be collected and compared, than to
hazard explanations, which may be only changing words. In
the case of Mr. Dunphy’s friend, and this one I have given,
both ladies were, from the fact of their seeing, mediums and
sensitives; but what are mediums and sensitives ? C. D.
ME. GEEALD MASSEY’S EECTTTEE AT GEEENWICH.
Sir,-1—In The Spiritualist for November 6th, 1874, is an
account of Mr. Gerald Massey’s lecture, in which he is said to
have brought forward as an argument against the Bible, that
God is therein stated to have “ ordered the wholesale slaughter
of men, women, and helpless children.” iThis objection, which
1 suppose refers to the supposed command of God to extermi¬
nate the Midianites (recorded in Numbers xxxi.) is at least
1,600 years old, and has been copied by one author from
another even down to the present day. But when we refei; to
the Bible itself, even as translated in our version, we find the
objection collapses at once. The pnly commands of destruc¬
tion given by Jehovah on this occasion, are found in Numbers
xxv. 17, and xxxi. 2, which read, “ Yex the Midianites, and
smite them,” and “ Avenge the children of Israel on the
Midianites.” In the 15th and 17th verses of the latter
chapter we read, “ And Moses (not Jehovah) said unto them,
Have ye saved all the women alive ? Now therefore kill
every male among the little ones,” &c. So even according to
the authorised version of the Bible the slaughter of the
women and children rests solely with Moses; it is not said
that God commanded him to do so ; Moses was not infallible
in his actions; he once slew an Egyptian without the com¬
mand of God, why should he not have also slain others here,
without God being charged with the crime ? I suppose the
next objection to the Bible will be, that because it is related in
2 Kings vi. 29, that a woman at the seige of Samaria ate her
own son, that therefore God commanded her to do so! This
shows the importance of never trusting matters which come to
us second-hand, but always referring to the original version.
However, this is not all; I have shown that God did not com¬
mand these butcheries; I will now show that they were never
committed at all, and that the whole rests on a wrong trans¬
lation. According to our version, the Jews destroyed all
the males, all the boys, all the married women, and kept for
themselves the virgins ; yet, notwithstanding this utter de¬
struction of the Midianites as a nation, we read in verses 25,
26, 40, and 47, that a certain number of the men captured
were “ the Lord’s tribute,” and were given to “ the Levites
who kept the charge of the tabernacle of the Lord,” a phrase
clearly showing that these captives were given to the Levites
to assist them in their official duties ; added to this, we find
that in the time of the judges, the Midianites were a powerful
people ; how then could the tribe have been exterminated on
this occasion ? It may be said that this apparent contradiction
sho,ws that the Bible is untrustworthy. But it does not,
for the simple reason that no forger or impostor would have
been such a fool as to perpetrate such a blunder in a work
which he wished to palm off on his countrymen as divine. It
merely shows the passage is wrongly translated. In Bellamy’s
translation of the Jewish scriptures, made from the Hebrew
text of the synagogue copies only, we find (Numbers xxv.
1—5) that the Israelites contracted matrimonial alliances
with the Midianitish women, and began to worship idols, the
punishment of idolatry being, as they well knew, death.
Upon this, “ Moses said to the judges of Israel, Slay ye every
one his men, that were married before Baal-peor.” This was
therefore a judicial execution of the guilty according to
the Divine law. And if it is said that such a punishment was
barbarous, I answer that barbarous punishments are necessary
for a barbarous people. In chapter xxxi. v. 7, we read, “ Then
they warred against Midian, according as Jehovah commanded
Moses ; and they slew every male.” Not “ all the males,” as
it is wrongly translated in our common version, but “ every
male,” who opposed them in the field. In verses 9, 10, we
read in our version, “ And the children of Israel took all the
women of Midian captives, and their little ones, and took the
spoil of all their cattle, and all their flocks, and all their
goods ; and they burnt all their cities wherein they dwelt,
and all their goodly castles with fire.” To this it has been
objected that as Midian was divided into five kingdoms, which
were very powerful and populous, it was impossible for 12,000
274
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 4, 1874.
men to take all the women captives ; and, moreover, if they
had, the nation would have become extinct, which it did not;
beside which, it is unlikely that they could have burnt all their
cities, and unjust if they did so, as they would contain many
persons with whom they had no enmity. But the true reading
is, “ Moreover the children of Israel arrested the women of
Midian, even their licentious ones; also they took of all their
cattle, and of all their flocks, and of all their substance ; more¬
over, in all their cities wherein they dwelt, there even all their
palaces they consumed with fire.” Thus we see that they did
not capture all the women, for the word all is not in the
Hebrew, as is signified in our version by its being printed in
italics: the ‘‘ women, even the licentious- ones,” were those
who had married the Israelites, and so become one with the
nation, and subject to their laws, and yet had persuaded
their husbands to join them in the licentious worship of
Baal-peor. Neither did they burn all their cities, but only
the palaces of the kings whom they had slain in battle, as an
example.
We now come to the most important charge, viz., the mas¬
sacre of the children. But even our common version shows
the absurdity of the ordinary translation. In it we read
(verses 15 to 18) “ And Moses said unto them, Have ye saved
all the women alive ? Behold these caused the children of
Israel to commit trespass; &c.—now, therefore, kill every
male among the little ones, &c.” The word “ therefore" shows
the relation between the two clauses; but what connection
could there be between the sin of the Midianitish women, and
the slaying of the little ones ? This alone proves that the
passage must be wrongly translated. The true reading is,
” Now, therefore, slay ye every male of the family (or every
male among the licentious, for the words will bear both mean¬
ings), and every woman acquainted with man by lying with him,
but any of the family of the women who have not known the bed
of a male, preserve ye with you.” This, with the context, gives
a true and very different meaning to the passage. In chap, xxv.,
ver. 5, we find that the Israelites who had become idolaters
were judicially executed. Nevertheless, there must have been
many who were with their idolatrous wives in Midian. These
were captured in or after the battle, and the judicial sentence
was impartially pronounced on them and on their wives, who
by marriage had become incorporated with the nation, and
therefore subject to the laws thereof. Yerse 17, therefore,
refers to these; the men being those of the Israelites against
whom the judicial sentence had been pronounced, chap, xxvi.,
ver. 5, but had hitherto escaped through their absence, and
the women were their equally guilty wives. The next verse
(18) contains the command to incorporate with the nations
the captive unmarried women, which was certainly a great
advantage to them. It may be asked, What right had the
Israelites to attack the Midianites at all ? The answer is that
the latter endeavoured to destroy their religion, and so their
existence as a nation, and they were justly punished by the
Nemesis of God, who out of pure love to his children, never,
allows a crime to go unrequited.
I may here refute one more stale objection. In verse 35 we
read “ And 32,000 persons in all, of women that had not known
man by lying with him.” It has been objected that Midian
could not hold a sufficient number of inhabitants to allow of
such a proportion of virgins. But the true version is “ Also the
persons of men with the women, &c.—all the souls 32,000.”
Thus the 32,000 captives consisted not only of virgins, but of
men with their wives and children. I trust that for the
future, whatever objections may be raised against the Bible,
the objectors will take the trouble to refer to the original
Hebrew or Greek, as the case may be, and not quote stale ob¬
jections at second hand, based only upon wrong translations.
With regard to the ” little ones,” the Septuagint has no such
reading ; it says “ Kill all the males among all that are
perfect,” that is of mature age.
E. W- Bebridoe, M.B. (London).
4, Highbury New Park, N., Nov. 17th, 1874.
THE CAUSE OF THE PHENOMENA OE SPIRITUALISM.
Sib,—If Dr. Gully will refer to my letter in the Spiritual
Magazine of last June, he will see that I am very much of his
own opinion as to what the aim of Spiritualists as enquirers
should be, for I say “ Had the primary object of your society
been investigation, with a more scientific aim and purpose, I
should gladly have joined it; but as the intention is clearly to
propagatei a religious belief, I must decline the honour of a
seat in your council chamber.” That I was right in my ob¬
jection I think is fully admitted, since I am now told that
“ the Association has, I think, at last steered quite clear of the
theological rock, on which it was' in danger of coming to
grief, but it has been hard work. Its basis is now chiefly that
of a union for the advancement of Spiritualism entirely un¬
fettered.” In a scientific society religion should be excluded,
if possible, except in a negative sense, for that cannot be helped;
geology and astronomy could not but be in opposition to the
Bible account, and how Mr. Howitt can take to Spiritualism and
hold on still to the Christian creed, is his own affair, with his
horrible conception of the action of bad spirits in our midst.
But the gift of logical consistency is very rare, particularly
when facts run counter to faith ; of course I need not say that
the belief in a life to come has neither a moral nor a religious
bearing ; true spirituality has a very different source.
Dr. Gully must know that when I say that Spiritualism is
popular enough, I mean in a scientific point of view, just as
I might say in respect to any other science or class of facts.
Where the desire for popularity prevails truth will suffer, and
fiction and fancy are likely to take the place of fact and care¬
ful induction. I have believed in the facts from the first, but
I think there are great and-profound reasons for not ascribing
the cause or agency to the spirits of the dead. Anyhow,
Spiritualists ought to be very kind and gentle in their superior
spirituality towards scientific unbelievers in the spirit hypo¬
thesis, like the late Professor De Morgan, we will say. Con¬
sidering that men of science thought that they might rejoice
that science had at last conquered, and, as it were, exorcised,
the, superstition concerning spirits, not only in respect to
demoniacs, but in regard to every department of science, can
it be wondered that such men are incredulous, and, as it were,
taken aback by the reaction, by the retrograde movement, as
it must seem to them. Of course, whatever the facts are they
will be accepted, and must throw great light on the nature and
science of man ; but even to a believer in spirits, it ought to
be very difficult to believe that a stout woman could pass
through solid walls, and fresh flowers fall from the ceiling,
and material bodies flash into existence, and be gone again as
by magic into thin air, “ and leave not a wrack behind ;” but
accepting all the facts, I think that it is not shown how the
theory of spirits accounts for the phenomena, at least for all
of them. I believe the cause to be very different, and of a
deeper significance, notwithstanding appearances, but I will
not intrude further on your valuable space. Dr. Gully is an
able and sensible man, but an enthusiast in regard to the
novel phenomena in question, as he has been all his life in
respect to the water cure as an all-efficient system of medical
treatment. Henby G. Atkinson.
SPIRITUALISM UNVEILED.
Sir,-1—A little work has just been published, entitled
Spiritualism Unveiled, and shown to be the Work of Demons,
by Miles Grant. The title is not modest; one might as well
attempt to “ unveil” the universe as to unveil Spiritualism.
Spiritualism is of the universe, one with it, for it is as closely
intertwined with it as the spirit of man is with his body. Mr.
Grant professes to show Spiritualism “ to be the work of
demons.” It is strange that one who undertakes so much
should require to be reminded that the word “ demon ” in its
correct rendering means a “ good spirit;” of course his inten¬
tion is clear, and he should have used the word “ devils.” He
is quite right. Devils are not idle, less likely than ever to be
so, now that their stronghold is being attacked. They may
be found wherever they are sought, and it needs no deep
research into the lower portions of spiritualistic phenomena
and literature, to come across abundant proof of their pre¬
sence. Spiritualism being of the universe universal, must
necessarily partake of the elements thereof. The spirit in
which the investigation is carried on will usually—I might
surely say invariably—determine the sphere of spirit power
that will present itself. Let any one go to a seance in a cavil¬
ling spirit, determined to prove that it is all from the devil, or
all deception, he will have his desire. Untruths of every de¬
scription will await him, puzzling and distressing him. It is
far better for all such persons to avoid the subject entirely.
They will gain no good, but may do great harm. Their wisest
course would be to suppress an indignation which leads them
to such rash conclusions, and to such unfair and sweeping
assertions as I find in this little book, and all others of the
same class.
Let the authors watch, wait, and, above all, pray; then, if
they trust in a God over all—even over the devil himself—let
them be sure that the fierce struggle between good and evil
now going on notably in Spiritualism, will end surely in the
TM SPIRITUALIST.
275
Dec. 4, 1874.
subjugation of evil, and the reign of good. But let them
beware lest, in their ignorance, they may be fighting against
God Himself.
Many others, besides Miles Grant, have “unveiled”
Spiritualism, and having fought through the evil, have
reached untold good. Is the testimony of such men as
William Howitt, S. C. Hall, Gerald Massey, Dr. Sexton, Pro¬
fessor De Morgan—such women as Mrs. de Morgan, Mrs.
Howitt, and her gifted daughter, Mrs. Watt, and thousands of
other equally earnest, truthful, and truth-seeking Christians,
to be rejected ?
Must the fiat sent forth by Miles Grant, Spurgeon, &c., be
accepted against their testimony ? The former speak of that
which {they know; the latter, of that which they surmise
merely, for it is evident that these one-sided conclusions are,
without exception, the result of imperfect investigation—nay,
in some cases, of opinion only. The latter is, of course, worth¬
less. It would occupy too much space, or it would be the
simplest thing imaginable to confront all the so-called proofs
of the diabolical origin of Spiritualism given in this book, with
equal proofs of its pure and holy source. There is, however,
but one remark that T wish to notice. Every creed on the face
of the earth has its corresponding spiritual sphere, and conse¬
quently its mediums for communicating such creeds to those
on earth; therefore it shows an entire ignorance of the sub¬
ject to fix upon any set belief, and say dogmatically, “ So-and-
so is the belief of the Spiritualist.” On tbe last page of this
book I find these words:—“ Spiritualism denies that Jesus is
the Son of God, as taught in the Scriptures.” From personal
experience, I deny this statement as entirely false. For four¬
teen years I have been a writing medium, and have received
hundreds of pages of spirit teachings. Through long seasons
of solitude and illness, I was helped and taught by my
guardian spirits. God knows how earnestly I prayed for His
help, for entire deliverance from every form of evil; I prayed
even that I might lose the use of my right hand rather than
that it should be the instrument for self-deception in writing
these wonderful messages. The hand did not lose its power,
the messages increased in beauty, the teachings were heavenly
and comforting, full of exhortations to trust fully in God the
Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ. Explanations were given
of His Divinity, and, above all, was I taught to live in prayer.
If, then, Miles Grant is correct, prayer is useless, God the
Father, the Hearer and Answerer pf prayer, is a myth, and
thousands of earnest Spiritualists should join in the cry, “ My
God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me ? ” F. J. T.
St. Leonard’s-on-Sea.
THE COOKSTOWH DISTURBANCES.
To the Editor of the" Belfast News Letter.'''
Sir,—In your impression of Wednesday last there appeared
a lengthened report of a ghost story from Cookstown, which
seems rather inexplicable ; bqt perhaps the following may
help to be the means of unravelling the mystery.
Some years ago, in the neighbourhood of Kilkeel, an occur¬
rence of a similar kind perplexed the inhabitants for many
months. In a house there a series of depredations was com¬
mitted exactly like those which are at present being perpe¬
trated on Mr. Allen, of Cookstown. The windows were
smashed among their hands, and as in the present case, the
broken glass was generally found outside, and a stone with
which it appeared to have been broken inside. Clothes were
destroyed, cows’ tails and pigs’ ears were cut off, and no clue
whatever could be got to explain the matter. Often the
minister would go and remain for a time with the afflicted
family, and just among their hands a pane of glass would be
smashed, or some like deed dons. The police were resorted to,
as if their presence would frighten whatever demon haunted
the scene. But all was no use. For months a guard was
kept about the house night and day ; but the unseen agent of
the infernal regions (as many thought it to be) was able to
prosecute his work of destruction without detection. Every
morning when tbe police arrived in town the inquiring inhabi¬
tants were furnished with some additional turn of the ghost
story. Some blamed the evil one, and others thought it
might be the work of some ill-disposed neighbour. Few, how¬
ever, were of the latter opinion, as it was utterly impossible
that any neighbour could have done it without being taken by
the police. However, tbe ghost was at last discovered, and
he whom Burns styles “ Old Clootie,” was set scot free. It
appeared that there lived in the house a young girl—a niece of
the proprietor—and that she was in love with her cousin, who
preferred some neighbour, and was not accustomed to stop at
home with her. Either in revenge for this indignity, or in
some mania, she became the agent of the above depredations,
and she carried on the work so cunningly as to defy detection
for months. However, one of the policemen at length caught
her in the act of breaking a window, and she was taken
prisoner, and afterwards confessed the whole thing. She
broke the glass with a hammer, or something else, and then
deposited a stone inside in order to shroud it in mystery. In
short, she acted the part of a supernatural agent for a time
quite as cleverly as that which your reporter represents to be at
present in Cookstown. H. J.
Cloverbill, Belturbet, 20th Nov., 1874.
[The ascribed cause seems disproportionate to the effect. What were
the names and addresses of the people concerned ?—Ed. of S.]
Miss Anna Blackwell has returned to Calais.
Dr. Sexton is about to assume tbe editorship of the
Spiritual Magazine.
Spiritualism in Belfast.—The Belfast Evening Tele¬
graph oi last Saturday has a leading article attacking The
Spiritualist; the editor of the Belfast Evening Telegraph
writes in all innocence and simplicity, in utter ignorance of
science and of psychology. He should remember that when,
at the closing meeting of the British Association, Dr. J. H.
Gladstone, F.R.S., seconded a vote of thanks to the Belfast
press, he said in effect that the scientific men had often
“ laughed at its mistakes,” but that, on the whole, the editors
had recorded educational subjects pretty well, so far as their
knowledge extended. The reporters of the Belfast Evening
Telegraph listened to this speech, and we hope the editor had
the independence not to withhold the notes of his own staff
from the public.
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s Entertainment.—•
Last night a change was made in the programme at the
Egyptian Hall drawing-room, and for the second part of the
entertainment was substituted what is described as a new
“indescribable phenomena” seance, the object of which is to
represent the manifestations which Miss Fay, the lady who
lately exhibited them at the Hanover-square Rooms, ascribed
to spiritual influences. Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke attain
precisely the same results, while utterly denying any aid from
spirit power. All the manifestations they produce they state
are entirely the result of their own contrivances; or, as Mr.
Maskelyne terms it, “ trickery.” Whatever the trickery may
be, the feats which were accomplished were of the most extra¬
ordinary nature. The process adopted by the performers is
precisely similar to that of Miss Fay. Instead of a young
lady, however, a gentleman, Mr, Cooke, is the principal actor
in the seance. This gentleman was seated inside a screen
composed of three sides, with a curtain in front forming the
fourth, and which was placed upon a small platform on legs
about a foot in height. In the presence, and with the assis¬
tance of two gentlemen from the audience, who stated that
they had performed a similar duty at Miss Fay’s seances, Mr.
Cooke was bound hand and foot with strips of stout calico, the
knots being subsequently sewn with a needle and thread. In
that apparently helpless condition he was seated on a camp-
stool, and the screen and the curtain were drawn, one end of
the cord which bound his feet remaining in the hands of a
gentleman on the stage. Immediately a tambourine, placed
on his knees, was thrown up out of the top of the screen, and
a bell rang. The curtain being drawn up, Mr. Cooke was
found without a knot unfastened, and apparently without
having moved a limb. Further tests were applied, and a
wooden case or box was placed over him, completely covering
him, with the exception of the head, for which a small lunette
aperture was left in the top of the box. The, case having been
fastened by screws to the back of the screen, Mr. Cooke
managed to drink a glass of water placed quite out of his reach
while the curtain was drawn. To complete the test, a strong
net was thrown over his head and round the case, and made
fast in every possible way. The curtain was again drawn, and
upon its rising, Mr. Cooke was discovered to have extricated
himself from everything, and was sitting upon the case which
was still covered by the net. The screen, in which all this
took place was constantly inspected at the back by one of the
audience, while its top, front, and sides, were visible to all.
There seemed to be no way by which any confederate could
render any assistance to the man inside, who, if appearances
went for anything, was utterly helpless, and the renewed
assurance by Mr. Maskelyne that it was all done by a trick
sent the audience home more than ever puzzled to know how
it could be accomplished.—Daily News.
276
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 4, 1874.
The Rev. Dr. F. Q-. Lee, of All Saints’, Lambeth, has in
the press a volume of facts, records, and traditions, •which he
has collected relating to dreams, omen$, miraculous occur¬
rences, apparitions, wraiths, warnings, second sight, witch¬
craft, and necromancy, which will be published by Messrs.
H. S. King and Co., under the title of “ Glimpses of the
Supernatural.”
The Peterborough Advertiser of November 28th, republished
from The Spiritualist a report of one of Mr. Williams’
Saturday evening seances', it also contains a letter by Mr. J.
T. Marbley on Literary Ladies. Mr. Markley says that much
good is done to the cause of Spiritualism in his neighbour¬
hood, by sending copies of The Spiritualist to editors of local
newspapers.
Trance Lecture at Go swell Hall.—On Sunday-
evening last, Mrs. Bullock in the trance state, addressed a
large and attentive audience on subjects chosen by themselves.
The first subject was—“What is truth?” She advised
them not to look for truth in creeds, systems, or religions,
though they contained some amount of truth, but to look
within their own souls; if truth was there, shine out it must,
because of its nature. The second subject was—“ Christianity
ancient and modern,” the|third subject was—“The signs, of
the times,” and the last one “ Righteousness, temperance, and
a judgment to come.” At the close some questions were
answered by the speaker.
The Dieeictjlties op Inq,uirePvS.—A gentleman writes
to us from the provinces :—Last spring I became a writing
medium, but the communications were chiefly untrue, so I hope
this proves that “ like does not attract like ” always. One day,
last July, they wrote “ On the 11th August the Prince of Wales
will be fired at, at Ascot, by a man named T , in the Inland
Revenue Office. He will miss fire. Send this to The
Spiritualist; it will make a great sensation, and you will
achieve great renown as a medium, &c.” Of course I did
nothing of the kind. Other communications were of the
same nature, but strange to say, many were expressive of
love and affection for me, with sound advice ; when I com¬
plained of the deception they had practised, they said they
had done it for my own good, to make me less credulous.
A Yoice prom India.—Observers sometimes see truth
more clearly than the actors, so the following extracts from a
letter written to Mr. T. Everitt by Mr. James Mylne, of Beheea,
Bengal, will be of interest:—You may tell John Watt that his
message bears valuable internal evidence that it is correct. I
have duties here for a couple of years or so, and after that I
might leave for England. I get the Spiritualist and the
. Medium, also the Banner of Light, and am thus able to watch
the progress of the movement. I consider the National
Association a very necessary institution, and cannot under¬
stand why Mr. Howitt and a few others are against it: I will
willingly subscribe £10, £20, or £30 a year, if necessary, for
its support. If The Spiritualist had asked for public financial
support or assistance sooner, doubtless the public would have
responded ; it is a grand paper, and deserves every encourage¬
ment the movement can give it.
Spiritualism: in Swansea.—Afewdays ago an interesting
lecture on Spiritualism was delivered by one of the Swansea
Unitarian ministers, the Rev. Mr. Smith, in the theatre of
the Royal Institution in that town, to a large and respectable
audience of ladies and gentlemen, presided over by Mr. F. A.
Yeo, mayor of the borough, on The Philsophy of Spiritualism.
The rev. gentleman narrated the experiences of some of the
most eminent Spiritualists, such as the late,Judge Edmonds,
of America, and Lord Dunraven. He also quoted largely from
the writings of Mr. William Crookes and several others who
have been devoting a part of their time to searching out
psychological truth, and he spoke of the error of disputing a
fact merely because it could not be understood, or because
they had not devoted any of their time to its observance. He
showed the power of the magnet over an iron needle, and
pointed out how a little bit of magnetised iron will tempora¬
rily overcome the force of gravity of the world. He answered
the oft-repeated question, “ What use is it ?” by saying that,
like all other wonderful things in nature, when rightly ob¬
served, it led men up to nature’s God. He concluded by
saying that Spiritualism was one of the signs of a future state.
At the close of the lecture, the mayor tendered a vote of
thanks, and highly commended Mr. Smith for his boldness in
speaking out on a subject which seemed to give rise to so
much opposition; he (the mayor) would give Spiritualism his
attention. Other speakers highly commended the lecturer,
and there was no dissenting voice,
London Society, edited by Mrs. Ross-Church, is pro¬
gressing. This month’s number contains an engraving of a
materialised spirit, carrying a paraffine |lamp of the most
approved Birmingham make.'
All the readers of these pages know what good the late
Mr. J. W. Jackson did to the cause of Spritualism and Mes¬
merism, and it is pleasing to see, by an advertisement in
another column, that Mrs. Jackson is about to deliver a series
of lectures at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Several letters, not containing late news, have come to hand too
late for publication in this week, in consequence of their not
, reaching the office in the course of Monday, as so frequently
requested.
J. J. Morse, Philadelphia.—A week after you left, thirty copies of
The Spiritualist, containing the report of the proceedings at your
soiree were posted to you at the temporary address of Mr. Peebles
in New York.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
ZVeaswra’.—Herbert N. Mozlet, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. jSec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa)
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
THIS Society will hold its next monthly social meeting
at the above address on Monday next, December 7th, at 7.30, p.m.,
when it is hoped that members and friends will be present in numbers ;
a very interesting meeting may be expected.
Ladies and Gentlemen well known to Spiritualistic friends will take a
part in the evening s entertainment, which will consist of Music, Recitation
Songs, &c.
Charles Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
<P10ATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Vy Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year’s Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived, and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8Jd. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.'
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la CatMdrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
KEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Alien, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
« SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
Now ready, price Sixpence,
The day of Pentecost and its phenomena.
A Sermon-Lecture by Frederic Rowland Young, Minister of the
Free Christian Church, New Swindon, and formerly Editor of the
Christian Spiritualist. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &e., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 61. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra,
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
N ewcastle-ou-Tyne.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
Dec. 4, 1874.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIKVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business ASairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, .One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover-square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, (will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Riissell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDLER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-roid, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CUR AT I YE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational speaker,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course :—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
BR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as abqve. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefitted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Seances every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute-road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and. Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table cTIIote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-strbet, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
PENTON TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
26, PENTON-STREET, N.
EVERITT & SON desire the attention of their friends and the public
generally to the new and varied stock of Autumn and winter goods they
have just received.
Strong durable hard wearing overcoats from 35s.
Strong winter trousers from 14s 6d.
We have a large stock of fancy materials suitable for every article of
Gentlemen’s attire.
Our £2 2s. woaded black cloth frock coats and £1 black doe trousers
which have given such great satisfaction for the last twenty-five years, are
Still noted for good quality and durability.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Oalder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Filz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C.
Ramsay, <M rs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-cdmmon, S.W.
Speer, S. T.,- M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B. A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Blaskheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice.D.D, 44,Netherwdod-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendo Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road' North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.?
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street. '
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c.,17, Trafalgar-road,'01dKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-eommon.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, VietOria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. G., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald,-Mrs. M, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E. *
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs;; 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence.) ■
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tern.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emil a de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Grata
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg..
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs ’Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell; 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell*
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
Mi Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Mons. Buguet, Paris.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 4, 1814.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM; DESERVES
INVESTIGATION, f
Spiritualism: deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
1 has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of .thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual. phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. G-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles | Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan.Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Sillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Sillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.O-S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;,
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky, volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1; That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingfr otn
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee,, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im-
posture.',     
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on' the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of-'each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the1 same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or vmbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should, be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion,' let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment. is .understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
Bpeak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter.you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given,' set to work on the plan proposed, andfrom this time an intelligent
system of commumcation is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. * Next ask, “ Who is the medium ?,” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirit^' out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences, of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, BINGSGATE STBEET, HOLBOBN, LONDON, W.C."
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Beform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application. — ■
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “ PIONEEB OF PBOGBESS ” LIBEABY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVEBY THUESDAY MOENING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Eecord of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Eev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATOBS AND ENQUIBEBS into Spiritualism may obtain
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local
seances, mediums, lecturers, &e.
AH communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
■PSYCHOPATHY or, THE TRUE HEALING ART.
JL By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 204, Marylebone-ioad, London
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blobd—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm-
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office, of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Nervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure of. Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the. Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process h without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of. the Aura
to Water, &e.—Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Bemarks.
London: J. Burns, 15,' Southampton-row, W.C.
Beady by January 1st, 1875.1 Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Boob. A new
work on
SPIRITUALISM, SCIENCE, AND CHRISTIANITY;
showing their Harmony and Beiationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of-the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession,. Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of. Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both,to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. 6d,; td. Subscribers,'2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.J *
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to.GEORGE FARMER, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holbprn, London, W. C.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and ■well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59, of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4|d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at, a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E:C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at1 the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Kents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.C. ,
