A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREff Of THE $CJEJMCE /ND ETHICf OF fPIflTU/UfM.
No.' 28.—Vol. I.
LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1871.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
During the past month Mr. Sergeant Oox has made
two attempts to call together at his house some of the
gentlemen most interested in the formation of the
Psychological Society, but in consequence of their
various engagements, chiefly out of town, a suitable
day has yet to be selected for the purpose. In the
mean time Mr. Sergeant Cox has drawn up the follow¬
ing proposed plan of a Psychological Society, not
necessarily as the plan which will be ultimately
adopted, but in order that some definite scheme may
lie before the preliminary meeting, for consideration.
Intending members wonld do well to send in sugges¬
tions at once to the Quarterly Journal of Science
Office. A good plan would be for the founders of
the society to examine the rules which established
scientific bodies have found to work well, in order
that benefit may be derived from their experience.
The following is Mr. Sergeant Cox’s preliminary plan:—
“ THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OE GREAT BRITAIN,
“ For the Promotion by Disquisition, Discussion, and Experi¬
mental Research, of the Science of Psychology.
“ The investigations of- the society to be strictly limited to
its proper province-^-1. The Laws of Being; 2. The Laws of
Life; 3. The Structure and Operations of the Mind; 4. The
Phenomena called Psychic ; 5. The Soul, its existence in the
present and in the future.
“ These subjects to be treated entirely as questions of
science, to be determined by facts, excluding disputed theolo¬
gical doctrines and authority as being inadmissible in a strictly
scientific inquiry.
“ Plan of the Society.
“ The society to consist of an indefinite number of members.
“Members to be of three classes-—1. Ordinary members re¬
sident in London; 2. Provincial members, residing more than
twenty miles from the metropolis; 3. Corresponding and
honorary members-.'
' “ The subscription of ordinary; members to be twb guineas
per annum; of provincial members, one guinea per annum.,
“ The-subscription,to entitle the members to attend all the
meetings of the society, and tp ‘ receivb & copy of all its publi-
•c'ations. ^ ; .'P '.■■.> i.'tv
“The society to bfe governed by a^presidenir,' four iioe-pfe-*
sidents; .and ;a "council of' twelve ordinary members, to be
elected by ballot at the general ’annual meeting. -
“ The officers of the society to be a .treasurer and an hono¬
rary secretary.
“ The meetings of the society to be held fortnightly from
the month of October to the month of June inclusive, or
otherwise, as the council may determine, and on such days
and times as the council may, with due notice, appoint from
time to time.
“ A convenient room for such meetings to be provided by
the council.
“ The chair to be taken at eight o’clock precisely by the
president, if present; in his absence by one of the vice-presi¬
dents in order of standing; in their absence, by a member
chosen by the members present.
“ The proceedings to consist of—1. Papers accepted for that
purpose by the council; 2. Discussions on the subjects of the
papers ; 3. Discussions on any subject sanctioned by the pre¬
sident for the evening.
“ The council to appoint committees for experiment and
otherwise, to be reported to the society.
“ The council may, if it think fit, divide the operations of
the society into sections, each section dealing with a single
branch of the science.
“ The council to consider the propriety of holding an
Annual Congress in various parts of the country, after the
manner of the Associations for the promotion of the Physical
and Social Sciences.
jg The first council will be self-appointed, but at the first
annual meeting all the officers and council to be subjected to
election by the members.
“ Members will be elected by ballot, having been duly pro¬
posed and seconded. One-third of black balls to exclude.”
“ Persons resident in London and in the provinces desirous
of becoming members are requested to address an application
to that effect to the Psychological Society, at the office of the
Quarterly Journal of Science, Boy-court, Ludgate-hill,
London.”
There will be a review of the Report of the Dialectical
Society, in the next number of the QuaHerly Journal of
Science.
The Royal Institution.—The Royal Institution session
begins on the 28th of this month, with a course of lectures on
Ice, Water, and Air, by Professor Tyndall, and the experiments
are sure, as usual, to be of a most varied and interesting cha¬
racter. If children over fourteen years of age were removed
from school for six months to attend the Royal Institution,
their education would be improved thereby, and they would
deem the attendance a pleasure and not a task. Many leading
Spiritualists and their friends go to the Royal Institution
lectures, and Lord Lindsay occasionally presides over its
meetings. Members and their friends only are admitted to
the Friday evening lectures. We have placed a list of charges
in our advertisement columns.
MISS KATE FOX’S MEDIUMSHIP,
Miss Kate Fox, in whose presence the first of the
modern Spiritual manifestations began twenty-three
years ago, returned from Paris to London a week or
two since, but is still in very weak health, so much so
that she has been obliged to break off not a few
seances for which she had made appointments. She
has had one or two seances at the house of Mr.
Coleman, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood. She
gets very loud raps, and they are nearly always at
command, so that if she places her hand on a door,
for instance, strong rapping noises usually follow at
once. She is perhaps the best rapping medium now
in England.
She gave a seance at the house of Mr. S. C. Hall,
on November 23rd last, at which Mr. and Mrs. S. C.
Hall, Mr. and Mrs. Orrack, and Miss Ogden, were
present. Mr. Coleman writes to us about this seance:—
“ There was but an hour to spare after dinner before Miss
Fox had to leave Mr. Hall’s house. I suggested a short sea/nce.
When we were seated I said, 11 hope some of our host’s friends
will be able to communicate with him.’
“ Miss Fox commenced writing with her left hand, and back¬
wards, from right to left, so that it was necessary to hold the
paper between the eyes and the .light to read it, and this was
the purport
“ ‘ Will you let me intrude my presence and breathe a mes¬
sage to my father mho is inconsolable ? I died very suddenly
at Christs College, Cambridge.
“ ‘ Tell my father to come and talk with me. I can comfort
him.
“ ‘ My name is Henry Duller Wilkinson. I died on the Vlth
of November.'
“ ‘ What is your father’s name ?’
“ ‘ My father's name is T. C. Wilkinson. I mas tmenty-one,
and have one brother. I wish to tell my father the remainder.
“ ‘ All this is true.as that there is a God in heyperii.
% ‘ Farewell.'
“ ‘ Does your father live in London ?’ .
“ (By rapsi)^ ‘Wq;’ .(Then written as before.) ‘Address
I him to Christ's CoTlege, Cambridge'^ '■ Ui 1 feaL. l-ff ■
' '“Mr. Hall wrotetothe; j^itheT • on the following'day, but X
|have hot heard.AYhetluh1' hp’ hqs rgepiyed any reply,!but on
• Monday, Nov.f 27.th, four days alter the seance, I saw the fol-
| lowing announcement in' The Times r1—:
On the; 17th Nov., at Christ’s College, Cambridge, deeply
lamented, Henry Butler Wilkinson; second son of T. C. Wilkin¬
son, Bs’q., of Caton Hall, Yorkshire.’ sfjj
“I looked through the papers (not The Times, as I had not
a file) to see if any previous announcement had been made. I
could not find one.”
Miss Fox held a few dark seances at the house of
Mrs. L. M. Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,
at some of which the Countess Paulett, Mr. and Mrs.
Crookes, and others, were present. . At one of these,
when all the members of the circle sat round the table
with their hands joined together, a light the size of an
egg was seen floating in the air, sometimes as high as
the ceiling, and occasionally it struck upon the table
and made raps. .
THE “QUARTERLY REVIEW” ON SPIRITUALISM.
The articles on Spiritualism in the Quarterly Review
and the Quarterly Journal of Science caused a greatly
increased demand for both, and last week the former
had to go to press with a second edition, containing a
supplemental article by Dr. Carpenter. In this supple¬
ment Dr. Carpenter admits he made a mistake in calling
Dr. Huggins a brewer when he is not one, and he owns
that he was wrong in saying that Mr. Yarley was not a
Fellow of the Royal Society. Having expiated these
and some other errors, he calls attention to one of ours,
and points out that there is evidence in his article that
he has attended more than five seances, though we said
he had only attended two good ones, and five in all. He
therefore says that the editor of The Spiritualist may
be perfectly truthful in private life, but that “ lying
spirits” seem to influence him sometimes in newspaper
work. The wearisome work of reading an article of
fifty-three pages, written by somebody who knows next
to nothing of the subject, is our excuse for not having
noticed the portions to which he so politely calls atten¬
tion.
Then he says that we have called Dr. Carpenter the
writer of the article on no better authority than an
on dit of the newspapers. Not so. Our attention was
first drawn to the article by one of Mr. Yarley’s head
clerks, who after, we had read it said : —
“ ‘ Who mrote the article?'
“ ‘ Dr. Carpenter.’
“ ‘ Surely not. He mould never quote his own writings, and
speak so highly of Dr. Carpenter as this reviewer does.' ”
“ ‘ All I know is that I beard bim talking to Mr. Crookes
and a knot of listeners in tbe reception room at tbe British
Association at Edinburgh, in just the strain of this article.
He manifestly knew nothing of the subject, and spoke with
Papal infallibility. He would scarcely let Mr. Crookes put
a word in edgeways. In this article he also lectures on
physiology, as he does in the report of the Dialectical
Society.’ ”
Such was the substance of the conversation. A few
days later we saw the assertions in the newspapers that
Dr. Carpenter was the writer’of the article, and Tater
still we discovered that Dr. Carpenter was the gentleman
who was present at some of the seances described in the
two Quarterly articles. Therefore we assert Dr.
Carpenter to be the writer, and that the newspapers
told the truth in the matter. It is a fact that ought to
be known, because he makes such an attack upon the
scientific character of Messrs. Crookes, Huggins, Yarley,
and others, who are in every respect his equals in the
philosophical world. Were it not for these personal
attacks we should like Dr. Carpenter’s article. It is
in every way a help to Spiritualism, as he admits to
having witnessed more than his explanation adequately
covers.
Two ladies from Manchester, whose names and
addresses we published, were present as introduced
strangers at one of Mrs. Guppy’s seances ; two or three
persons of national celebrity, whose names we have
no permission to print, were also there. One of the
stranger ladies whispered to the other, “ Ma, I wish the
spirits would bring me a lobster,” which remark no
other mortals in the body heard. Presently there was
some little screaming from the ladies because something
alive had been placed on their hands. A light was
struck, and there lay two lobsters, one half-dead and the
other very lively, and apparently very angry—if a lobster
,can look’angry. : To. tbeinfinite ctedit of the two ladies/
who . .are of good , social standing, they had the courage'
t6"giv‘e'us permission to publish, their * attestation Ui'Ibp'
Wdnfierful thqu^n unB^li"e^qBl^tfut|i'ihey:ffad' wifmesseff,1
and we' have' ifidifectly been informed' tMt‘ they’have’
since suffered some little persecution in consequence^
Dr. Carpenter says these lobsters were imaginary. He
was forced to say so to make the facts .fit his theories.
If Dr. Carpenter’s “unconscious cerebration” can drag
lobsters into a house, perhaps an accumulation of the
said brain-force may hereafter be used to drag railway-
trains. Dr. Carpenter says he will admit that the
lobsters were not imaginary if they were boiled for
supper. We commend to his notice a well written
article in the, Spiritual Magazine for December, in
which Mr. Coleman says:—
“ Will be (Dr. Carpenter) be candid enough to retract, as he
has promised to do, upon being assured that ‘ the two lobsters ’
brought by ‘ Psychic’ force at the seance I attended mere
cooked, not ‘ for supper,’ as he suggests, but for breakfast ?
Or would that make all the difference, and enable him to
escape the humiliation of confessing his error ? ”
Dr. Carpenter takes exception to our explanation
respecting the Spiritual state of the persons present at
his seance, by saying that Mr. Foster, the medium,
afterwards got into disgrace about something, even
among Spiritualists, so could not have been particularly
pure. We have made inquiries on the point, as this
was many years ago, and ascertained that there were
some questions raised about Mr. Foster by a small
knot of Spiritualists, also that many held opinions
on the other side. If we admit Dr. Carpenter’s state¬
ment it in no way affects the question. Mediums are
far more sensitive and impulsive than other people;
they are also more subject to mesmeric influ¬
ences. They are thus very much influenced by their
surroundings, and supposing a medium to be thrown
into bad company, if he once gave way and yielded to
the spirit of those around him, we think he would be
more easily led in a wrong direction than other people,
just as with good surroundings, it would be easier for
him to rise. We ought to take great pains to surround
everybody, but more especially mediums, with good con¬
ditions for advancement.
In the case of Mr. Foster’s mediumship Dr. Carpenter has
brought a false charge of imposture against an innocent
man. When Dr. Carpenter adds what he has seen of Mr.
Foster’s mediumship to what the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
and Mr. Robert Chambers have also seen of it, as printed
on another page, he will learn that his explanation does
not cover the facts, and with him rests the moral
responsibility of whatever steps he may take in the
218
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15,1871.
matter. We believe Dr. Carpenter to be a good man,
and have listened to very many of bis interesting lectures
■with pleasure, and think that he has sufficient moral
sensitiveness not to allow his printed untruths about an
innocent man to remain uncontradicted. This matter
rests between him and his conscience.
How does Dr. Carpenter force his theories to explain
the manifestations witnessed by Mr. Livermore, and
mentioned in another column in our review of Dr.
Tyndall’s book ? A full account of those manifestations
is printed in the back numbers of The Spiritualist.
Does Dr. Carpenter object to the chief witness ? Mr.
Livermore is a retired banker, formerly the senior
partner of the great banking firm of Livermore, Clews,
and Mason, of Hew York, which house lent large
sums of money to the American Government during the
late war. Sir John Lubbock can inform Dr. Carpenter
as to the standing of the firm.
Mr. Crookes’s attitude towards Spiritualism is very
fair. He says, in effect, “ The facts are true, and I lay
before the uninformed strong evidence that they are
true. At present I neither admit nor deny that they
originate with disembodied spirits, but I will continue
my investigations.” Mr. Yarley has gone further. In
days of trouble and difficulty, when few dared to
acknowledge Spiritualism or Mr. Home, he entered a
Court of Justice, and made an affidavit that spiritual
manifestations were real, and originated with spirits.
Since he took that bold and honourable step the nation
at large has been gradually growing up to his standard,
till at the present day those who deny the reality of the
manifestations, are rapidly beginning to find themselves
in a minority. Possibly the butcher’s boy who carries
meat to Burlington House, knows more about the phe¬
nomena of nature known as spirit-rapping than the
Secretaries to the Boyal Society, and many hundreds of
people are already laughing at the want of knowledge
of the Quarterly Review, and the future president of
the British Association at Brighton. The result will be
that great masses of people will think that scientific
authorities are just as unreliable on other subjects, and
that the greater discoveries of the day, such as the hy¬
drogen flames of the sun, may be all moonshine. Hobody
can wish to see the brilliant discoveries of modern
science doubted in this way by ignorant people, so it is
a pity that Dr. Carpenter, Professor Stokes, and others,
have put their want of knowledge in print.
Considerable mystery surrounds the problem why
scientific men of the Dr. Carpenter type object so to
Spiritualism, because they are not impeded by the ordi-
nary superstitious fears of “ The muckle-horned Clootie,”
as the Scotch call him. Admitting a next world to be
a reality, is it not an incalculable blessing to be able to
obtain some reliable scientific knowledge about it'? Is
it possible to coax Dr. Carpenter to tell the real nature
of the objection ? We have heard it surmised that he
and his kind would like Spiritualism very well, if it did
not meddle with the law of gravitation, for which they
seem to have a kind of fetish worship. They may
think any meddling with this law as direful an offence
as speaking disrespectfully of the Equator, or com¬
mitting the wicked act of insinuating that there may be
a kink in the Meridian of Greenwich.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BT WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OF “ THE LIFE OF
SWEDENBORG.”
Unwilling should I be to utter a word in sanction of
the odious cant addressed by sleek and lubberly pietists
to the poor and wretched, advising them to accept their
lot with resignation as the appointment of God. Yet,
in a measure, I may be thought to consent whilst 1
protest. I believe all misery is appointed by God, not
for acceptance or submission, but to provoke to discon¬
tent, to insurrection, to amendment. Where our pains
are, there, if we will observe, we shall find our malady,
be it weakness, or defect, or excess, or perversion.
And should misery fail to incite to discontent, to insur¬
rection, to amendment, then God in His mercy will let
misery deepen unto death, and sweep away what cannot
be compelled unto salvation.
Hor should I in any way discourage earnest spirits
whose passion it is to ameliorate the condition of their
fellow-creatures individually and socially. Philan¬
thropic efforts, even when grotesque or erratic, command
my sympathy. Ardently do I long for the day when
every child born into the world may have free culture
and scope for its special genius, and when every fence
of rank, privilege, and possession,’which hinders or
prevents such culture and such scope, may be thrown
down. Than men and women I account nothing more
precious, and for their common and particular welfare I
would unreservedly subordinate the earth and the
fulness thereof.
Nevertheless, I am persuaded that the terms of
existence in this world fail to supply the conditions for
a satisfactory organisation of humanity.
“Why, what is wrong with the conditions of exist¬
ence ? ” one asks, whilst another affirms, “ Man has all
the conditions of happiness, and merely lacks the intel¬
ligence to utilise them.”
I reply, You cannot construct a satisfactory fabric of
transitory and variable materials, and of transitory,
variable, and incalculable materials humanity on earth
consists.
Humanity is transitory. As the Apostle testifies,
“ Here we have no continuing city, but we seek one to
come.” If by some extraordinary consensus of wisdom
the whole of humanity was set in order with every
individual in his right place, the dissolution of the
structure by the mere action of death would imme¬
diately begin.
Nor would death be the only disintegrator. Setting
aside the play of inordinate passion, there would be in
birth a continual entrance of new substances swayed
by unknown and irregular forces.
if In short, I maintain that a permanent social order on
earth is impossible. If established, it would break
down by reason of death, and break up by reason
of birth.
Then, too, whoever would build up a perfect society
would require to know what each item or individual
was good for. But is it conceivable that any such
estimate of character could be formed, or, if formed,
that the individual would recognise or submit to it ?
This difficulty I may put in a stronger light by the
query, Since each of us understands himself so imper¬
fectly, how is it likely that any external judgment
should arrive at a more trustworthy estimate? Has
not the wisest to confess at threescore and ten that with
his life-long experience, he has only begun to know
himself and how to conduct himself discreetly ? And
in this very fruition of experience comes the summons
for departure!
One might suppose that if social organisation were
possible anywhere, that it would begin in the family;
and that out of households of order a grand civil order
would be created. Indeed, the more thoughtful social¬
ists have always based their ideal structures on har¬
monious families. But who that looks at the world
with open eyes does not see that the desired domestic
order is unattainable ?
How, I would ask, are happy conjugal relations to be
ensured? and, if ensured, how about the offspring?
Barents beget children unlike themselves, with natures
to them mysterious and perverse. What is more fre¬
quent than diversity' between father and son, mother
and daughter? Nowhere, perhaps, may a cynic find
such gratification for his temper as in the prognostics of
young parents. el So-and-so shall my sons think, and
thus-and-thus shall my daughters do.” Yanity of
vanities ! Your sons will live to account you an absurd
fogy, and your daughters to excuse your obstinacy and
ignorance as one of the old school.
And as character acquires delicacy under culture,
diversity is magnified thereby, and mental and moral
relations sharpened to acute sensitiveness. Jesus Christ
stands for what is divinest in humanity, and did He not
ask, “ Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on
earth?” and answer, “I tell you, Nay, but rather
division ; for from henceforth there shall be five in one
house divided, three against two, and two against three.”
The saying may be resented as disagreeable, but whether
it be so is of little moment beside the question of fact.
Do we not all perceive that the spiritual development
designated Christian is a development of sympathies
and antipathies which traverse and nullify many of the
ties of flesh and blood ? In so far as any one is a
Christian, in so far he prefers the righteousness repre¬
sented by Christ to all other considerations, and kindred
and country are held by him in favour or enmity just so
far as they manifest or resist the will of his Master.
The remark is frequently made, that we cannot
understand the present life unless we consider it as an
introduction to a life to come. The remark may to
some appear a truism, but the fact is so often forgotten
that it may pass for a profound observation. Eor my
own part, if I wanted to construct a strong argument
for a future life, I should find it in the obviously prepa¬
ratory and experimental character of our present state
of existence. This earth, I hold, is simply a place
wherein to get born and to make trial of our powers.
We see lives close in absolute failure, but are they
failures ? In misery and disasters may not a poor soul
have been learning, among much else, the limit of his
faculties, and contentment in their bounded and proper
exercise ?
Not long ago I had a letter from a friend of singular
ability, who had made many adventures and few pros¬
perous, bewailing what he was pleased to describe his
“ wasted life.” He had made a bad selection in coming
to me for sympathy. I do not believe in “ wasted
lives,” nor that we are sent into the world to provide
matter for model biographies, such as Mr. Smiles
delights to set forth. God wants men, and not pretty
stories, and I assured my disconsolate correspondent that
in the Divine eye he had achieved a success in learning
experimentally and unquestionably that he was a fool
and a sinner, infinitely preferable to the pattern career
which he so bitterly regretted he had not run.
Let me not be misunderstood. I do not depreciate
prosperous or harmonious lives, but only recommend
that they be not over valued, as we inevitably must
do, if we consider this world as their beginning and
end. To me it is beyond dispute that spirits pass daily
from earth in neglect and contumely, with battered
reputations, wrecks in all conventional regards, who
yet are received by the angels with welcome of tender
affection and esteem.
I repeat, it is men and women God wants out of the
world, and so that they come it matters little by what
process of good or evil fortune they are prepared and
perfected for His eternal Kingdom. Let us rest satis¬
fied that the Creator and Sustainer of Humanity knows
just what He requires, and puts His material through
just such regimen as adapts it to His purpose.
SPIRIT-RAPPING IN JOHN WESLEY’S EAMILY.
IN TEN PARTS—PART TEN.
John Weslet thus sums tip the results of the
observations of the disturbances in his father’s par¬
sonage house at Epworth :—
“ Of the general circumstances which follow most, if not all
the family, ivere frequent witnesses.
“ 1. Presently after any noise was heard, the wind
commonly rose, and whistled very loud round the
house, and increased with it.
“ 2. The signal was given, which my father likens to
the turning round of a windmill when the wind
changes; Mr. Hoole (rector ofHaxey), to the planing
of deal boards ; my sister, to the swift winding up of a
jack. It commonly began at the corner of the top of
the nursery.
“ 3. Before it came into any room, the latches were
frequently lifted up, the windows clattered, and what¬
ever iron or brass was about the chamber rung and
jarred exceedingly.
“ 4. When it was in my room, let them make what
noise they would, as they sometimes did on purpose,
its dead hollow note would be clearly heard above
them all.
“5. It constantly knocked while the prayers for the
king and prince were repeating; and was plainly heard
by all in the room but my father, and sometimes by
him, as were also the thundering knocks at the Amen.
“ 6. The sound very often seemed in the air in the
middle of a room, nor could they ever make any such
themselves by any contrivance.
“ 7. Though it seemed to rattle down the pewter, to
clap the doors, draw the curtains, kick the man’s shoes
up and down, &c., yet it never moved any thing except
the latches, otherwise than making it tremble; unless
once, when it threw open the nursery door.
“ 8. The mastiff, though he barked violently at it the
first day he came, yet whenever it came after that,
nay sometimes before the family perceived it, he ran
whining, or quite silent, to shelter himself behind some
of the company.
“ 9. It never came by day, till my mother ordered the
horn to be blown.
“ 10. After that time, scarce any one could go from
one room into another, but the latch of the room they
went to was lifted up before they touched it.
“11. It never came into my father’s study, till he
talked to it sharply, called it deaf and dumb devil, and
bid it cease to disturb the innocent children, and come
to him in his study, if it had anything to say to him.
“ 12. Erom the time of my mother’s desiring it not
to disturb her from five to six, it was never heard ia
her chamber from five till she came down stairs, nor at
any other time when she was employed in devotion.
“ 13. Whether our clock went right or wrong, it
always came, as near as could be guessed, when by the
night it wanted a quarter to ten.”
The disturbances at Epworth lasted from Decem¬
ber 1st., 1716, to the end of January, 1717, but the
spirit Jeffrey for years afterwards manifested in the
presence of Miss Emily Wesley, who afterwards became
Mrs. Harper. She was no doubt a medium. In a
letter of hers to John Wesley, dated Eebruary 16th,
1750,she says:—
“ Dear Brother,—I want most sadly to see you, and
talk some hours with you, as in times past. Some things are
too hard for me ; these I want you to solve. One doctrine of
yours, and of many more, viz.: no happiness can be found in
any or all things in this world ; that, as I have sixteen years
of my own experience which lie flatly against it, I want to
talk with you about it. Another thing is, that wonderful
thing, called by us Jeffrey. You won’t laugh at me for being
superstitious, if I tell you how certainly that something calls
on me against any extraordinary new affliction ; but so little
is known of the invisible world, that I, at least, am not able to
judge whether it be a friendly or an evil spirit. I shall be
glad to know from you where you live—where you may be
found. If at the Foundry, assuredly, on foot or by coach, I
shall visit my dear brother, and enjoy the very great blessing
of some hours’ converse.
“ I am, your really obliged friend and affectionate sister,
“ Emilia Harper.”
So ends tbe story of the spirit-rapping distur¬
bances in John Wesley’s family, and the whole
narrative is based upon the most unquestionable docu¬
mentary evidence; so strong is the evidence that none
of the biographers of Wesley attempt to dispute the
circumstance of the disturbances having taken place
as narrated.
Dec. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
219
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL [STS.
SPIRITUALISM IK CLERKENWELL, DUBLIK, GLASGOW, LIVER¬
POOL, BIRMINGHAM, AND YORE—THE EDUCATION OP THE
CHILDREN OP SPIRITUALISTS—HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
The third anniversary social meeting of the “ Saint John’s
Association of Spiritualists B was held on Thursday evening,
November 30th, at St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, Clerken-
well, London. In the absence of Mr. Davis, the president,
Mr. James Burns occupied the chair. There was a large
attendance, and after tea some speeches were made about the
general state of the Spiritual movement in Clerkenwell and
elsewhere.
Mr. R. Pearce, the secretary, said that since the last general
meeting of the Association six months ago, twenty-six public
stances had been held, at which the attendance varied from
about twenty to one hundred persons, the average attendance
being about sixty; many of the visitors were total strangers,
and in some instances he had heard of their going away and
forming spirit circles in their own homes, so that the work
done by the Association tended to spread Spiritualism.
Although the attendance at the seances was large, the number
of members of the Association was small. At the end of its
first year it had thirty-seven members; in its second year
twenty; and at present it has twenty-three members. Many
who had ceased to be members, and other persons as well,
gave donations towards the defrayment of the expenses, but it
would be better if they would enter their names as regular
members of the society. Since the Association was formed it
had held 131 meetings, to 123 of which the public had been
admitted free of charge; these 123 meetings consisted of 117
seances and six lectures. There would be several lectures
during the coming winter, as Messrs. Shorter, Harper, Burns,
Pearce, Goss, and others, had kindly promised their aid. He
had been in communication with Associations of a similar
kind, in the provinces, to see if they could give him any useful
suggestions as to the best method of working such societies.
Mr, James Brown, of Glasgow, had written to him about a
little Spiritual Society in that city as follows :—“ At present
we meet in a room in a Temperance Hotel on Sunday even¬
ings, for the reading of papers, general conversation, and
mutual instruction. The general public are not admitted, but
members are allowed to bring friends and inquirers. The
number of members on the roll is somewhere between thirty
and forty, but the average attendance is only twenty-four.
The subscription at present is only one shilling per quarter,
and the voluntary collection on Sunday evenings, generally
covers the expense of the room. We have a very fair library,
which is supported by voluntary contributions of money and
books, and by a nominal charge on all volumes lent out for
perusal, of a penny or twopence per week, according to the
size of the book. At present we have only one monthly meet¬
ing for business and no experimental circles. We are now
negociating for premises of our own for holding our meetings,
which premises we shall furnish and fit up comfortably, and
occupy every night in the week if we choose. It is proposed,
should we succeed in carrying out this scheme, to establish a
series of regular experimental circles to meet once or twice a
week. By this means it is expected that some good mediums
may be developed and satisfactory phenomena obtained,
which to a great extent we have hitherto failed in securing.
We have never thought it wise to have an open circle for the
outside public, as unless media are well developed, satisfactory
manifestations cannot be presented. The better plan is to
cultivate the power carefully in private, and introduce from
time to time such as are truly sincere in their desire to investi¬
gate. Public seances have been attempted here, but were pro¬
ductive only of mirth,ridicule, and uproar.” Hehad also received
a letter from Mr. J. B. Herod, of Nottingham, about “ The
Nottingham Association of Progressive Spiritualists,” Mr.
Herod stated that the Nottingham Association was open to
persons of all theological opinions. It held two public meet¬
ings per week, one on Sunday and the other on Wednesday.
The Sunday evening meetings were usually addressed by Mrs.
Hitchcock, trance-medium, who spoke under spirit-influence,
and a seance for the purpose of receiving messages from
spirits, was held every Wednesday evening. They endeavoured
in Nottingham to make the truths of Spiritualism as public as
possible, and of late had met with great success. The meetings
were attended by large numbers of people. The society had about
forty permanent members, who subscribed what they pleased
per week towards the expenses. He had also received a letter
from Mr. E. Banks, of the Liverpool Psychological Society, who
stated that the objects of the society were to investigate the
nature and laws of the phenomena of Spiritualism, and
occasionally to engage lecturers to bring the subject more
prominently before the public. It met once a week—every
Friday evening. Mr. Banks also said :—“ The society is pro¬
gressing slowly against great difficulties and opposition, and
our meetings are moderately successful. We are not very rich
in mediums, but have two or three progressing in development.
We have one very good trance-medium, Mr. A. Fegan, and
often have remarkable physical manifestations also in his
presence. Our subscription is low, barely covering expenses,
2s. 6d. for the first quarter, and Is. per quarter afterwards.
The subscription of members is all that we have to depend
upon. We have no library, properly speaking, but have a few
books and pamphlets for members’ use if required ; no attempt
has been made to increase the number as yet. There are very
few Spiritualists in Liverpool, and we have only about forty
members; many of these cannot be called Spiritualists either,
but inquirers. The few that we have are earnest and devoted
in the cause, however ; there is a steady increase amongst us,
and we hope soon to have a strong society. Our meetings are
generally full, many strangers seeking admission.” To return
to the subject of St. John’s Association, he (Mr. Pearce) might
state that they had now thirty bound books in their library, and
many tracts and pamphlets. He thought it was time that they
began to do something to promote the education of children,
as recommended by Mr. Shorter last year ; in fact that was
one of the most important steps they could take. If they had
a room of their own in Clerkenwell, open at all times, instead
of once a week, it would be a great aid.
Mr. Blackburn then made a few remarks, at the request of
the Chairman, after which
Mrs. Viney sang, “ The Blind Girl to- her Harp ;” it was
well sung, and received with loud applause,
Mr. T. Shorter, of the Spiritual Magazine, said that the
reception of their invitation to be present at the annual
meeting of the Association gave him great pleasure. The
secretary had stated that they had a smaller number of members
than last year, but that was partly due to several having
formed spirit circles in their own homes, partly to the circum¬
stance that some had become members of new Spiritual
societies in their immediate neighbourhood, and partly because
some assisted the society by irregular donations instead of
regular subscriptions. The increased activity of the local
societies was a very pleasing feature, and Mrs. Hardinge,
during her recent visit to England, had done much good
work. Spiritualism, however, was progressing more especially
among the scientific and educated classes, so that its influence
had begun to be felt both by the Royal Society and the
British Association. Dr. Carpenter, in the Qtian’terly Review,
had recently resuscitated some worn-out theories unsupported
by facts, and had lengthened his article by personal attacks
upon men of science who were quite as eminent as himself.
After two years’ investigation, a Committee of the Dialectical
Society, composed at the outset of professional men avowedly
opposed to Spiritualism, had given in an official report certi¬
fying its phenomena to be real and true, which phenomena
both men of science and journalists have for the last twenty
years persistently denied. During the year they had lost
two eminent supporters of their cause—Mr. Robert Cham¬
bers and Professor De Morgan—yet they had the satis¬
faction of knowing that both of them could still co-operate
with Spiritualists, to whom they were probably nearer
than before, now that they live in the sphere of
causes. He wished to ask very seriously, “ Are we Spiri¬
tualists advancing as much among ourselves as Spiritualism
is advancing in the outside world ? ” He feared not.
Seances were held to evolve phenomena, but he thought that
those who had made themselves familiar with such phenomena
should carry their investigations a little further, for it was
high time that they applied themselves to the discovery of the
laws which underlie the manifestations. What use were they
making of Spiritualism ? He did not ask, with many of the public,
“ What was the use of Spiritualism ?”—a question which usually
meant, “ What profit can we make out of it ? To what per¬
sonal ends can we apply it ? How can we make it a matter
of commerce ? ” The education of children among Spiritualism
was a subject of great importance. As Spiritualists they
knew that they had no right to indoctrinate the young with
their own theological or other ideas; they had no right to
force the tender mind of youth by teaching it either hetero¬
doxy or orthodoxy (applause), but rather to aid the youthful
mind in its natural evolution of such powers as God had given it,
and then leave it to select its own path, according to the dic¬
tates of its own matured judgment (applause). There were
hundreds of spirit circles for the evolution of physical phe¬
nomena, but scarcely one for the removal of disease and the
j alleviation of human suffering, notwithstanding that there is
j usually great power in a spirit circle to relieve the sick. He
thought that if work were done in this direction, Spiritualists
would occupy a far higher position in the estimation of the
public, and in their own estimation too, than it did at present.
Why did so many idle spirits communicate at circles 1 Because,
as the aspirations of the members of the circle were, so were
the inspirations which resulted; there was usually no nucleus
present to draw down high and beneficent beings (hear,
hear). He knew that in making these remarks, he was not
only addressing the audience visible before him, but another
and probably a larger one, who he trusted would help to carry
the seeds he was then sowing to minds where they would bear
fruit, and help them to lead such lives that, when they died,
they should leave the world better than they found it.
(Applause). i
Mr. J. J. Morse, trance-medium (in his normal state), spoke
of the efficiency with which the Association and Mr. Pearce,
the secretary, had done their work, and he should never
forget that he gave his first public address under spirit
influence, from the platform of that Association, which was
the first to risk such a novel experiment. He trusted that the
Association would be the first in London to take in hand
practically the subject of the education of children among
Spiritualists.
Mr. Harper, of Birmingham, said that he had been studying
Spiritualism for twelve years. As he was a commercial
traveller half his time was spent in hotels, and there Spiri¬
tualism was not dead as a subject of interest. He had not
visited a single commercial room in any of the three kingdoms
where this subject had not been discussed, and on some occa¬
sions discussed all night. Perhaps it might be more talked
about while he was present, because he was so well -known in
connection with Spiritualism that he was considered a little
| gone ” on the subject; still he did not mind a little ridicule.
Six weeks ago he was in one of the chief hotels in Liverpool,
with seventy or more commercial men, and the subject of
Spiritualism came uppermost whenever there was a chance ;
on two evenings some practical experiments were tried in an
upstairs room. The recent dissemination of Spiritualism in
Liverpool, has been chiefly caused by the Rev. J. Jones,
a Dissenting minister there, who has issued a pamphlet con¬
taining some of the very best testimony in favour of Spiri¬
tualism, the result being that many Liverpool people accept
his facts without accepting his theological conclusions. In
Dublin he found Spiritualism to be extinct; there had been
two mediums there some time ago, but one of them had since
died, and the other had been snuffed out by the Roman
Catholic Church, of which she was a member. The Irish were
organically different from the English, and did not take such
interest in Spiritualism, and it was no use trying to force the
mind into a groove in which it was not natural for it to run.
However, he had been the means of starting three new circles
in Dublin. (A.pplause.) In Glasgow Spiritualism has a dull,.
dry, steady kind of growth. There the prejudices of the
theological schools run very high, and the descendants of the
old Covenanters hold to their creeds with a vigour and fierce¬
ness which we Southrons can scarcely understand ; in fact,
one very old friend of his there told him that “ he ought to be
horsewhipped out of society altogether, ” simply because he
had turned Spiritualist. (Laughter.) Some of the Glasgow
Spiritualists meet together in a small room in a hotel, but the
subject altogether is very dry and dead there. The only
remarkable medium there is Mr. David Duguid; he is a very
useful trance-medium, and is often made by the spirits to
execute elaborate oil-paintings in a pitch-dark room, with
plenty of witnesses present. He had had two sittings with
Duguid. At the first two clergymen were present, and two
direct spirit paintings were executed in oil within a minute of
time. One of these paintings was the portrait of a deceased
Scotchman, who had rapped out a message to a friend at
a spirit circle in America, that he would go to Duguid in
Glasgow, and get his spirit guides to paint his portrait for
him, to prove his identity. The picture had since been sent
off to America. Some direct writing was also done by the
spirits, and one of the sentences was a Latin inscription from
one of the gates of Milan. Spiritualism was spreading rapidly
among his own native Torkshiremen, who are thoroughly
fearless of what the world says or thinks ; so they meet
regularly in public and in large numbers, and the number of
mediums in Yorkshire is largely on the increase. Many are
healing mediums, and he had known the spirits to make
unlearned women write prescriptions in Latin. In Birming¬
ham one of the earliest and healthiest Spiritual societies in
England had been formed, and it held meetings every night
in the week. After living for three years it was suddenly
broken up, chiefly because several of its leading officials had
to leave Birmingham at about the same time to live in other
districts. The society had recently been resuscitated, and it
gave public ‘lectures every Sunday. Their recent experience
of public discussions about Spiritualism was that they did
very little good. Spiritualism is a vital and irritating subject.
They found at Birmingham that many Secularists were
delighted to come and hear themselves talk, and to leave the
Spiritualists to pay all the expenses. The meetings in Bir¬
mingham were held in a hall somewhat larger than the
Cavendish Rooms, and on the last Sunday he was in Birming¬
ham it was quite well filled. There are three seances per
week at which the general public are permitted to be present,
and sometimes there are some very good manifestations.
Many private seances are held regularly in Birmingham, and
some irregular seances for curative purposes ate held at the
house of one of the best clairvoyant mediums he had ever
seen. She sees and describes the ailments of persons who
have never been to her at all; it is, as a rule, necessary only
that something belonging to them shall be given to her. She
often personates the deceased relatives of inquirers, repro¬
ducing their mannerisms and characteristic expressions, when
in most cases it was certain that she had never seen or heard
of the said deceased persons. Spiritualism had taught him
that progress was the one great central idea of the universe,
and the knowledge of conditions is one of the best things to
accelerate the rate of progression in social, political, religious,
and all other matters. It taught him that he must place
himself in conditions favourable to growth. At the present
time the minds of men lay hold of the things of this life with
the greediest grip, and a life of this nature is the deadliest
enemy to the growth of the soul. (Hear, hear.) Love of
wealth must not be the first and uppermost thought. If he
wanted to be pure and noble, he knew that he must associate
with those who were pure and noble, and surround himself
with everything that was pure and beautiful, both in nature
and art. At rhe present time England was sadly in want of
a public opinion which would advocate progress, and unity of
interest. They wanted to see in the national constitution
that healthy action which was developed in a well-propor¬
tioned man, whereas the national constitution was in a very
diseased state ; there was an overflow of blood to the head,
and the hands and feet were so starved that deaths from star¬
vation sometimes occur in our midst. Therefore it was neces¬
sary to alter the social conditions of society, and to establish
something like organic equality.
Mr. Harper then sat down amid loud applause.
Mr. J. J. Morse was then entranced, and his spirit guide
said, through his organism, that, so far as their ghostly
existence was concerned, the spirits must plead to being more
real than ever; they found that the more they were saturated
with the spiritual principles of existence, the nearer did they
approach that which was real, true, and good. Many of their
friends, on first entering spirit life, were surprised to find them
such real substantial verities. A very great deal of good had
been done in that great city by that little society, for it is not
out of the halls of the rich and great that truth usually spreads
to the world : Christianity was cradled in a manger, and
spread abroad by poor men who had no culture, yet exerted a
potential influence. So it was with that assembly, humble in
its constituents, but free and independent in mind ; men and
women with unfettered minds are the aristocracy of the
earth, their temple the world, and their father God. Some
Spiritualists were considering the question, “ Shall we organ¬
ise ? ” The natural world would furnish them with a reply.
Co-operation is to be found everywhere in the realms of
nature ; the atoms separately but poorly represent the Divine
Mind, but united in masses how varied, and useful, and
beautiful are their forms. All organisations should be formed
upon co-operative principles, and every man should be'put in
the place which he is best able to fill. If Spiritualists organise,
they can never have a creed. They should act upon the
principle, “ Let me first benefit myself, and then my neighbour,
for how can I benefit my neighbour until I first perfect my¬
self ? ” Have a creed, and then Spiritualism will most surely
sow the seeds of its own dissolution; the realms of nature
teach this, and God speaks to man through creation. Although
Spiritualists could not have a creed, there were certain great
principles which all could follow. Spiritualism teaches
“ immortality,’’ and the facts of the spirit circle prove that as
we sow so shall we reap ; also that if we ignore this truth, on
our own heads rests the penalty. They (the spirits) merely came
that evening to stir the listeners to action, not to think for
them, for if they had to do men’s thinking for them, they
would never utter another word. They should think for them¬
selves, and then go forth to do battle with the hosts of error ;
they were certain to conquer, and the truths of God would
effect the salvation of every living soul.
Mr. Ashman, a healing medium, said that he was employed
some years ago in driving a plough, and never thought that he
should ever become a Spiritualist or a healing medium, though
he was always fond of healing animals, whether dogs or
donkeys. During the last twelve months, since he had had
the power, he had laid hands on about five persons per day on
an average, and cured most of them ; in some cases the cures
were rapid, and in some cases a day or two elapsed. The
spirits had treated him very well; they told him that they
would bring him nearly to ruin, and then put things right
again, and it was true. His mother, who died twenty-eight
years ago, was his guardian angel. He had never lost faith in
Providence; he had been sometimes in poverty, and sometimes
in comparative wealth, and he had learnt by experience that
if men would only work out their own ideas, and do what was
right, they would be sure to be happy. The man who is not
happy is not good; if he is not happy, he is neither a good
Spiritualist nor a good Christian. Learned men said that
these modern Spiritual manifestations were due to ‘‘physic
force.” All that he could say about the ‘‘physic force’’ was
that there was something remarkably intelligent in it.
(Laughter.) He trusted that they would always support the
Spiritual Institution and the Medium newspaper; when he
was a poor fellow, and could not afford to pay for a paper,,
they would always give him one, and lend him a book
without charge, when he was not able to get it in any other
way.
Mr. Barber said that that day year he was present as a
sceptic at the annual tea-meeting of the Association. Mr.
Pearce and Mr. Steele advised him to try the truthfulness of
Spiritualism in his own home ; he took the advice, and in his
own family he had clear and sure proofs that spirits lived.
Spiritualism had changed the tenor of his life. However
humble in position a man may be, he can always do something
to disseminate truth and happiness in bis own family and in
his own neighbourhood. He had informed his son about
Spiritualism, who was in the 5th Dragoon Guards at
220
THE SPIRITUALIST.
York, and his son had recently sent him the following;
letter:—
“5th Dragoon Guards, York, Nov. 11th, 1871.
“ My dear Father,r—You no doubt remember my telling you in my last
letter that I had formed a spirit-circle consisting of myself and three other
comrades; also that we had obtained an introduction to a Mr. Lister
through the kindness of Mr. Burns, of Southampton-row, who sent us a
large number of books, which he prepaid by post.
“We went to Mr. Lister last Sunday night, and after sitting an hour we
obtained very slight manifestations.... One of my circle is a married man,
in whose house we held a sitting or two while his wife was away on a visit
to her friends. JC proposed a sitting last Monday night with him. and his
wife, and another of my comrades and his wife—five of us in all. We had
beautiful manifestations by tilts, and I asked all the questions. The first
spirit was a lady friend, who had left this life nine years; she spelt her
name by the alphabet, and she stopped thirty minutes. We had four spirits
on Tuesday night. I should tell you it was out of barracks. Now comes
the most extraordinary part. One of the circle, when he returned home,
expressed a doubt to his wife about it, as I am known to have a character
for tricks, when suddenly raps were heard all over his room, and lasted for
two hours. He has since had a sitting in his own room, and one of his spirit
friends told him that he—the spirit—rapped, for doubting me. This spirit
asked for a lively song from me, which I obliged him with. Now I am
questioned by every one almost in barracks, and am called ‘the spirit-
rapper.’ I have convinced about twelve sceptical persons by ocular demon¬
strations this week....
“Your affectionate Son, Bichard Barber.”
Such was the news which he had received from his son.
He obtained the manifestations in his own house, where there
was no concealed machinery or springs. Looking at the wide¬
spread misery in the world, a man might think happiness to be
unattainable, but he had found that Spiritualism made him
very happy, and he thought that Spiritualists should spread
that happiness around them, and prove to the world that they
were happy individuals. He would propose a vote of thanks
to the officers of the Association.
Mr. Owen seconded the motion, which was carried unanim¬
ously.
Mr. Steele said that if a room were required, as suggested
by the Secretary, for the purposes of the Association, he had
one which was at their disposal. (Applause.)
A vote of thanks was then given to the Chairman, and the
proceedings closed.
Ifteiuetos.
Fragments of Science fob Unscientific People.
By John Tyndall, Esq., E.B.S. Longmans : 1871.
This book by Professor Tyndall contains a chapter on
“ Science and Spirits,” which we reviewed in No. 20 of
The Spiritualist; the title of the chapter should have
been “ A Man of Science and the Spirits,” for the sake
of accuracy.
The work contains many highly instructive articles,
written with that clearness of thought and elegance of
expression which have won for Professor Tyndall such a
world-wide fame. Like all his other books, it is
sufficiently free from the unnecessary introduction of
technical phrases, to be at the same time attractive to
the general reader, and full of solid instruction. No
useful purpose would he served by speaking further of
the highly meritorious character of the work as a
whole, so we now call attention to three chapters in it,
upon subjects relating to which Professor Tyndall is not
so well informed as he might he, so that by giving him
instruction on these points, he may be able, should he
choose so to do, to write with more extended knowledge
upon the said subjects on future occasions.
In chapter ii. he writes upon “ Prayer and Natural
Law,” in chapter iii., on “ Miracles and Special Pro¬
vidences,” and in chapter xiv. he makes some ** Addi¬
tional Remarks on Miracles.” Professor Tyndall does
not define what he means by the word miracle, hut the
inference is that he holds the word miracle to mean the
temporary reversion or suspension of some of the laws
of nature for a special purpose. In some places bespeaks
of a miracle as something out of the usual “orderly
progression” of natural phenomena, and he frequently
cites Biblical miracles to illustrate his remarks.
Spiritualism sheds a bright light upon the Biblical re¬
cords of miracles, by proving that some of them, at least,
may have occurred without any violation or suspension
of the laws of nature, and that the said miracles are
rare, simply because the requisite conditions for their
occurrence are rarely brought together at any particu¬
lar time and place. Therefore they appear not to fall
in with the usual orderly progression of nature, simply
because the knowledge of the observer is limited. A
savage, for instance, who saw a total eclipse of the sun
for the first time, might deem it to be a miracle,
whereas, with more extended knowledge, he would
cease to consider it such. A man of limited scientific
knowledge, might consider the event of the handwriting
on the wall at Belshazzar’s feast, as a violation of
natural law, whereas, when the area of his knowledge
is extended, he knows that it is not so. He knows that
if the right conditions be supplied, invisible spiritual
beings can take some of the emanations given off from
the bodies of certain exceptional persons, and with
those emanations can make a visible hand, with
which hand they can raise a pencil and write, if neces¬
sary. Baron Reichenbach has proved that the human
body gives off emanations of which as yet very little
is known, and a medium is simply a person who gives
off the right kind of emanations for any particular work,
in greater quantity than other people. Once the
Emperor Napoleon III., and the Empress Eugenie,
now residing at Chislehurst, saw a spirit-hand form in
the air, take up a pencil, and write the name of
Napoleon I. Mr. Home was the medium. The Emperor
of Russia several times saw spirit hands formed in the
presence of Mr. Home, during the last visit of the latter
to St. Petersburg. Mr. Livermore, the New York
banker, has been present when his deceased wife has
made herself visible to him, through Miss Kate Eox’s
mediumship ; he testifies that it was a vision of glory
and beauty too bright for earth; that he saw the spirit
of his wife take up cards and write upon them, and
that after these seances were over the cards were left
covered with her writing, which differed in no respect
whatever- from her handwriting while on earth. Miss
Kate Pox is now in London. Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of
No. 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood, has some of the
cards written upon by the spirit, in his possession,
and Mr. Livermore is expected to visit England this
winter. Spirit hands are very often formed in the
presence of Miss Kate Stokes, of 29, Kingsdown-road,
Upper Holloway, N., and a spirit-hand has frequently
raised a pencil, and written long messages to her from
her deceased mother. Spirits often form hands in the
presence of Mrs. Guppy, 1, Morland-villas, Highbury-
hill-park, N.; Messrs. Herne and Williams, 61, Lambs-
conduit-street, Holborn, W.C.; Mr. Everitt, 26,
Penton-street, Pentonville, N.; and Miss Plorence
Cook, 6, Bruce-villas, Eleanor-road, Hackney, N. The
spirits who make these hands disclaim all power to
work miracles, and often fail in their attempts to
manifest, chiefly because mortals do not take sufficient
pains to furnish them with the right conditions.
Therefore, the handwriting on the wall at Belshazzar’s
feast did not necessarily result from a violation of
natural law. Neither is the story necessarily mere
tradition, because the occurrence of similar events
in London at the present time, is a common thing.
The last argument may be applied to some of the
other miracles in the Bible. As solid objects often float
in the air now, it is not impossible that an axe may
have floated on the water in ancient times. Diseases
are often instantaneously cured by healing media now,
so why not in the days of old ?
The facts of to-day show that a substratum of truth
may underlie many of the miraculous stories to be
found in the sacred and secular traditions of all
nations. Had there been shorthand writers and news¬
papers in the days of old, to put the occurrences on
record at once, no doubt there would have been less of
error, exaggeration and invention in miraculous tradi¬
tions. We conceive Dr. Tyndall’s reasoning about the
sun standing still over the Yalley of Ajalon, to be
irrefragable, but at the same time he shows no know¬
ledge that many of the miracles recorded in the Bible
may have been within the limits of certain natural
laws, which are at present outside the pale of his know¬
ledge, but within his reach.
The Debatable Land between 'this Would and the
Next. By Robert Dale Owen. London: Trubner
and Co. 1871.
Eor very many years the Footfalls on the Boundary of
Another World, by Robert Dale Owen, formerly mem¬
ber of Congress, and American Minister at Naples, has
sustained a high reputation as one of the best of the
standard works connected with Spiritualism, and the
present work which has just been issued by the same
author is probably the most valuable addition to the
literature of Spiritualism which will make its appear¬
ance this winter, with the exception of the Report of
the Dialectical Committee.
In this hook Mr. Owen devotes 200 pages to the con¬
sideration of the religious aspects of the subject, in the
shape of a long address to the Protestant clergy, and
some chapters about the communication of religious
knowledge. The other 230 pages contain some most
interesting accounts of Spiritual manifestations; the
author was present at very many of the seances described,
and there is no doubt as to the authenticity of all the
narratives, as Mr. Owen is very careful to advance
nothing but good evidence. The Debatable Land is a
standard work, sure to be favourably received both by
Spiritualists and the public, and as the theological
views of the author are temperate, and not offensively
or aggressively unorthodox, it is a useful book to pre¬
sent to timid people who are frightened by the devil
theory of Spiritualism.
We shall have more to say about this book hereafter,
and close the present notice by extracting an account
of a seance which Mr. Dale Owen, Mr. Robert Cham¬
bers (of Edinburgh), and another gentleman, had with
Mr. Charles Poster, the test medium :—
TWO SEANCES WITH MB. FOSTEE.
“ Mr. Kobert Chambers and myself were well acquainted
with a gentleman wnom I shall call Mr. M , not being at
liberty to give the real name. He is one among the most
successful and best-known business men of our country ; not
a resident of New York.
“ At the time I am speaking of, however, he was on a visit
to that city ; and Mr. Chambers and I induced him to call
with us, on Mr. Charles Foster, one of the very best test-me¬
diums I have ever known, Mr. M was an unbeliever in
spiritual phenomena, unacquainted with Mr. Foster, and
agreed to visit him merely to gratify Mr. Chambers’ wish and
mine. We had given Mr. Foster no notice of our visit, and
we did not make Mr. M ’s name known to him. We sat
down to an ordinary-sized centre-table.
“ After several remarkable phenomena which I omit, Mr.
M expressed a wish for a test of the reality of spirit-in¬
tercourse. Thereupon Mr. Foster requested him to think of
a deceased friend. Then he bade him write, on one slip of
paper, a number of first names, among them the first name of
his friends; and on another slip a number of names, among
Dec. 15, 1871.
them the family name of his friend, keeping the writing con¬
cealed. Mr. M wrote on both lists accordingly; the total
number of names being twenty-three. At Mr. Foster’s request
he then tore the names asunder, made up each separately in a
pellet, and held these pellets under the table, in his hand, the
palm open. Then Mr. Foster, who was sitting opposite to
Mr. M , taking up my hat, held it by one hand under the
table and said : ‘ Spirit, will you please select the two pellets
that have your name and surname, from that gentleman’s
hand, and put them in Mr. Owen’s hat ?'’ In somewhat less
than a minute raps came, Mr. Foster brought up the hat, and
handed two pellets which it contained, unopened, to Mr. M .
The latter undid them, without showing them to any of us,
and merely said : ‘ These are the two pellets with the name and
family name of my friend.’ Then Mr. Foster, suddenly ex¬
claiming, 1 Here is his first name on my arm,’ bared his arm,
and we saw, written on it, in large pink letters, the word Seth.
After a minute or two, as we were looking at the writing, it
faded out, and Mr. Foster asked : ‘ Will the spirit write the
first letter of his family name on the back of my hand?’ hold¬
ing it out. We watched it closely: there was not the least
mark on it. But, after the lapse of a short time, pink marks
.began to appear, gradually growing more plain, until we all
saw, and read, very distinctly written near the centre of the
back of Mr. Foster’s hand, the capital letter C. Then, for the
first time, Mr. M showed us the two pellets. The name
was Seth C...
“ Mr. Foster then inquired of Mr. M if the spirit was a
relative of his ; and when the other replied that it was, Mr.
Foster sat, as if musing, for a minute or two ; then turned to
Mr. M , saying, ‘ Ah ! it comes to me : it is your father-
in-law. ’
“ Mr. C. . . . was Mr. M ’s father-in-law, as that gentle¬
man then informed us ; but until that moment the fact was
not known either to Mr. Chambers or to myself.*
“ Several times during this session, Mr. M became ex¬
tremely pale, and more than once, exclaimed in surprise. I
did not share his astonishment, because, the day before (Sep¬
tember 28), I had had a private sitting with Foster where I
obtained a test, perhaps even more satisfactory than the above,
seeing that it came at my own request. I begged Foster to
bare his arm, and I said : ‘ Can I have the first letter of the
family name of a deceased friend of whom I am thinking
written there ?’ I kept my eyes steadily fixed on the arm;
after a time the letter W gradually appeared, then, as gra-i
dually, faded out again. That was the first letter of the name
I had thought of.
“ Two marvels here: an answer to a mental question, and
writing upon a human arm before my eyes and in reply to an
unexpected request.
“ More than a year after this I had, also through Mr. Foster,,
a similar test; and as my notes, taken on that occasion, de¬
scribe the appearance minutely, I add the record here, at the
risk of being tedious.
“ A circle of eight persons had assembled, on the evening
of November 15,1861, to meet Mr. Foster. It was at a well-
known house in East Twentieth Street, New York ; the dwell¬
ing of two ladies, both earnest Spiritualists, and of whom our
country has recently had to mourn the loss, Alice and Phoebe-
Carey.
We had all been invited, early in the evening, to write-
one or more names, of deceased friends, each on a small bit of
paper ; and to fold these up tightly and mix them in the centre
of the table. There were some twenty or thirty of these in all,,
thus promiscuously placed together.
“ From time to time Mr. Foster addressed some message to-
one or other of our party, and, at the close of each message,,
he selected one of the bits of paper and handed it unopened
to the party addressed. In every case the message was ap¬
propriate and the name was given to the right person. In six
different cases the name of the deceased friend was written in
full on Mr. Foster’s arm ; but the arm was not bared before¬
hand, the writing appeared when he drew up his sleeve.
“ When some eight or ten bits of paper only remained, I
said to Mr. Foster : ‘ There is a name written by me among
those you have not yet distributed. Do you think you could get
the first letter of it on your arm ? ’ I was going to add, ‘ and,
I should like you to bare your arm before it is written ; ’ but
I refrained lest Mr, Foster should think that I entertained a.
suspicion which I did not feel.
“ Mr. Foster sat silent for a minute or two, both his hands
resting passively on the table the while ; then he said to me :
‘ You are to look at my wrist; ’ at the same time extending
toward me the left arm with the hand downward and the fist
clenched, and drawing back his sleeve so as to expose three or
four inches of the wrist. I observed that it was free from all
mark whatever, and it remained so for about one minute.
Then a faint pink stroke appeared across it which, in about
half a minute more, having gradually increased in distinct¬
ness, became a capital F. It extended almost across the wrist,
near to where it joins the hand ; and the top of the F, being
the last part of the letter which appeared, crossed into the
back of the hand. The letter was formed by pink lines, about
as thick as the down-strokes in ordinary text-hand. It was
the written, not the printed character ; and though it appeared
as if written hastily or carelessly, it was unmistakeably dis¬
tinct and legible ; so that each member of the circle, when it
was shown to them, recognised it at once. It remained visible
for as much as two or three minutes ; and then faded away,
while we were looking at it, as gradually as it had appeared.
“ Then Mr. Foster picked up the folded bits of paper, one
after another, until, as he touched one, there were three raps.
That one he handed to me. It was the one on which I had
written ‘ Florence,’ the name of a daughter of mine whom I
had lost in infancy twenty years before. Neither Mr. Foster,
nor any member of the circle, knew that I had lost a daughter,
nor had the name ever before come up, at any of our sittings..
Was the particular character of this test-—stricter than that
of any other obtained during the evening—determined by my
unexpressed wish to see the writing while in progress of
formation ? The important thing is correctly to state the cir¬
cumstances : let the reader make his own deductions.
“ The feeling, as the letter grew under my gaze, was some--
what like that I remember to have had when, for the first
time, under the microscope, I witnessed the sudden coming
into existence of crystals.”
The Court Journal of October and November publishes .
a dispute between its editor and Mrs. Mary Marshall.
A pamphlet written bY Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., entitled
“ Psychic Force and Modern Spiritualism," a reply to the
Quarterly Review and other critics, will be published in a day
or two by Messrs. Longmans, price about one shilling.
* A record of this sitting was made the same day, and submitted by me
for revision, to Mr. Chambers. That gentleman was then on a visit to this -
country. He took the deepest interest in such experiments.—B. D. E.
Dec. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
^netrg.
SPIRIT POETRY.
ED9AB A. Pob thus described, through T. L. Harris’s tnediumship, how
an angel, whom he calls “Lenore,” awaited him in the spirit world:—
“ I have waited, I have waited,
As the Evening Star belated.
When it lingers pale and lonely by the purple sunset door.
I have found thee, I have found thee,
And with heart-spells fast have bound thee.”
So from out the glowing halo sang the Angel-Maid Lenore.
(ftArt'espontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
SPIRITUAL POWERS AHD THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
Sir,—You have honoured my last letter with a long article,
embracing a wide range of subjects, and touching upon a
great variety of points in dispute between Catholics and Pro¬
testants. You have not, however, replied to the question
which is its key-note. I asked, “ When and why you believe
the spiritual powers, which you admit once existed in the
Catholic Church, to have departed ?”
Passing over this interrogation, you proceed to speak of the
gifts of healing, and challenge me to produce data proving
their present existence in our communion.
In my former letter I purposely confined my remarks to the
question of praying for the dead, an observation of yours on
that subject having induced me to write. Had I gone into
the matter of miracles, I could, of course, have brought an
amount of evidence to prove that there is still, as ever, life
and vigour in the Church, but I refrained purposely from
entering upon that topic, wishing to keep strictly to the sub¬
ject at issue between us.
It would seem, from your inquiries, that you expect that
healing powers should be found necessarily and exclusively
amongst the priests of the Church. Now, if you will read
part of the tenth chapter of St. Luke’s Gospel, many portions
of the Acts of the Apostles, and glance through Alban Butler’s
Lives of the Saints, you will,-I think, see that the power to
cure diseases by the imposition of hands, and other means of
rapport ” has, from the time of our Lord down to the present
day, been bestowed upon very many, in the Church, not or¬
dained. Women as well as men hdve been thus endowed;
priests have very frequently been so favoured, but by no
means all priests. Miraculous gifts, even of healing, are by
no means identical with, or always co-existent with, the
sacerdotal apostolic succession. All the Apostles had power
to bind and to loose, but we do not know that every one, even
of the twelve, wrought miracles. Should it so happen, there¬
fore, that it could be proved that in any one country, at a
given period, no priest had worked a cure, either by laying on
of hands, by prayer, or by the efficacy of the Sacraments by
him administered, it would not be an evidence that spiritual
power had died out of the Catholic Church, unless it could, at
the same time, be proved that no lay member of it had suc¬
cessfully exercised in that place, or age, healing faculties ; and
moreover, that no cure had been effected through relics pre¬
served by authority, and other sacred objects saturated with
spiritual magnetism, and enabling the Church militant to re¬
ceive aid from the Church triumphant.
The lives of the saints will convince you that there has
been no lack of spiritual power, in any respect, in the past. Of
J the present, it can never be so easy to collect and publish
such facts, for this special reason—that authorative inquiry is
not instituted into the gifts bestowed upon any person, how¬
ever holy, until a long space after his death, when he, being
finally purified from earthly taint, may be considered as having
attained a condition wherein his prayers may avail us lingerers
on earth, and when there becomes question of his canonization.
No devout Catholic could, by any possibility, assume the
public position that Dr. Newton did. He could not give
himself out to the world as a healer, boasting loudly of his
gifts, because, in the first place, he would feel that they were
utterly and absolutely of and from God, and subject to His
sovereign will, and in no degree dependent on himself; and,
secondly, because the Church teaches that the greater the
gift, the profounder the humility it should produce in the
soul. We do not read that the Apostles or any of the saints
made great and startling declarations about their ability to
heal. Neither do we find that they ever invited people to
come to them for cure; nor did they look upon healing as
their chief mission. It would always seem to have been
incidental and secondary to the higher work of spiritual re¬
demption, and the establishment on earth of a visible Church,
or “ Kingdom of God.”
That both Apostles and saints did perform many miracles
is as certain as history can make it, but the position which
they took would appear to me to differ too entirely from, that
assumed by Dr. Newton to make it easy to compare the two.
And it is the same in this age as regards those within the
Catholic Church, whom God has honoured, now and again,
with the healing gift. They are themselves aware of what it
has pleased our Lord to do, or what He has granted to His
mother, or to some great saint to do, through their poor in¬
strumentality ; and those know whom they have been privi¬
leged to help, and sometimes a rumour spreads that God,
through their weak hands, is ‘’visiting and refreshing His
people and it may be that when their eyes are closed on
earth, that which God gave them to do may be proclaimed
throughout the Church, and they be entreated by the faithful
still to pray, and still to help, God enabling them. But never
can they come before the world, as professors of healing,
advertising their gifts in newspapers.
Of Dr. Newton, and others like him, 1 desire to speak in
the widest spirit of charity, feeling that they have a work and
a reward, and well assured that our Lord would say of every
sincere labourer in the fields of toil and pain, “ forbid him
not,” as once He said of yore. Nevertheless, their mission
differs greatly from that of the Church, as regards this matter
of healing, and their modes of action. It is easy to know and
chronicle their cures, for they court the world’s gaze, and
eagerly publish every successful or even hopeful case ; the
Church, meantime, goes quietly on her way, doing her God-
appointed task, performing miracles undoubtedly, but simply
and naturally, as a part of that task. She has always per¬
formed them; they stir in her no surprise, so that she must
call all the world to marvel at an event so amazing ; she is
not eager to proclaim them. The great heart is patient with
the experience of nineteen centuries, and her powers are
nothing strange or new. In this generation, as in all past
ones, her children receive from the Lord His promised gifts ;
but I think the reasons I have mentioned will show you why
it is not, in the case of Catholics, possible to give the “ names
and addresses ” of those who have, at times, been permitted
to release from suffering their fellow beings. I am acquainted
with several instances of complete and instant cure in the
Catholic Church in this country, and in the present day, by
laying on hands with prayer, by prayer alone, by contact with
relics authenticated by the Church, by drinking, or by bathing
in water from miraculous wells and springs (not medicinal
springs, but springs spiritually magnetised probably), by an-
nointing with holy oil, and last, not least, by receiving the
blessed Sacrament. All these ways by which cure was accom¬
plished, indicate, as you must, as a Spiritualist, perceive, the
possession of a mighty spiritual power within the circle of the
Church. Most Catholics could tell you of similar facts occur¬
ring in their own knowledge. Almost every priest is ac¬
quainted with a multitude of such.
It is not long since Prince Hohenlohe lived, the fame of
whose cures became so wide spread, and the saintly Cure d’Ars,
that wonderful yet humble healer, more lately still. A short
time since a priest in Ireland was constantly beset with
crowds who had heard rumours that healing had been wrought
through him, and who came from long distances to ask his
aid, which proved oftentimes effectual. Father Faber’s life
records an instance of healing by the application to the pain¬
ful part of a relic of St. Catherine. Only the other day a
young girl in Paris, who was declared, by the first physi¬
cians, in a completely hopeless, and, indeed, dying condition,
was made perfectly well by kneeling beside the coffin of a
Jesuit priest, who had been shot in the time of the Commune,
and invoking his assistance.
I trust what I have attempted to say will, in some measure,
dispel your doubts as to the possession of spiritual power, to¬
day, in the Catholic Church. I can hardly imagine how you
could question it, seeing you admit its presence once. Pome
never changes. The conditions of her life, and all its laws
and influences, are as they ever were. Results, must, there¬
fore, be similar. Like the Lord, the Catholic Church has no
variableness, neither shadow of turning, and she is, because
He is, “ the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever.”
I could say very much upon each of the topics touched upon
in your article, but space fails, and, indeed, I must apologise
for having already so extensively trespassed upon your
columns. ’ A. E. H.
[In quoting instances of healing mediumship in the Roman Catholic
Church, our correspondent selects an extended period of time and a wide
area of country, thereby departing from the conditions of our challenge. If
there be any concentration of spiritual power in that Church in London
now, at all approaching the rich dowry of spiritual gifts now possessed by
Spiritualists in London, and if our correspondent will give us the name and
address of any Roman Catholic clergyman who will permit us to observe
the exercise of the said gifts, we will give time and unprejudiced observa¬
tion to the inquiry. In the foregoing letter our correspondent shifts a
great deal from the subject of spiritual gifts, to doctrinal and theological
points, which might lead to endless controversy, since there is no common
srandard of admitted facts to which all parties can resort. For instance,
we repudiate the reliability and authority of Butler’s Lives of the Saints to
which she appeals. Butler speaks of the horrible mutilations some of
those ancient devotees inflicted on their bodies, as deeds well pleasing to
God, and of their useless abnormal lives, as something holy and pure. A
writer so ignorant, and of such weak judgment, cannot therefore be trusted
to separate merely traditional from historical facts, in any old stories that
might come under his notice. This is a practical age, and men have
suffered too much and too long from the dogmas and assertions of priest¬
craft, to accept doctrines on authority, whether enforced by spirits in or
out of the body. “ By their fruits ye shall know them,” and our correspon¬
dent, with all her great literary abilities, has not given evidence that
therei s so much spiritual power in the Roman Catholic Church in London
now as there is among Spiritualists.—Ed.]
THE PAPER BY DR. EDMUNDS.
Sib,—Under the above beading, at page 202 of your paper
of October 15th, you print a series of offensive and untruthful
statements with respect to Mrs. Edmunds and myself. I have
long made it a rule never to reply to anonymous writings, but
as, in your November issue (page 214), you again misrepresent
the facts, I must ask you to give the following reply a place in
your next issue.
1. At page 214 you say:—
“ We stated that Dr. Edmunds had spoken in favour of the
Davenports on a public platform and know that up to about
the time of going to press with the report, the conduct of Dr.
Edmunds was fair enough towards Spiritualism; the rapidity
with which he veered round was remarkable.”
In reply to this I have to say—1. That I never spoke in
favour of the Davenports on any public platform or elsewhere.
In point of fact, I told the audience that “ the strange cha¬
racter of the phenomena, and their rapid succession, made it
impossible for me to give an explanation of them on the
instant after I had seen them for the first time.”
2. That my opinion as to the character and real causes of
the phenomena is precisely what it was before the investiga¬
tion commenced, and that I have never said or done anything
to suggest that my opinions had changed. To say that I
veered round is, therefore, untrue. From the moment that I
became chairman, I kept my own personal opinions entirely
in the dark, and I did my best to keep the proceedings clear,
and elicit fairly all the evidence that was offered to the com¬
mittee. That I did not fail egregiously in my duty was
attested at the final meeting of the committee, October 31,
1871, when it was moved by H. D. Jencken, Esq., barrister-
at-law, and seconded by A. E. Wallace, Esq., F.L.S.—
“ That this committee be now dissolved, and in doing so
acknowledges with sincere thanks the great ability, courtesy,
and impartiality with which Dr. Edmunds has fulfilled the
duties of chairman during the prolonged inquiry.”
At the same meeting Mr. Wallace examined the correspon¬
dence, which led to my being present at the Davenport-Guppy
seance in Great Marlborough-street, on May 26, 1868, and he
wrote me a letter, of which the following is a copy
“ London, Oct. 31,1871.
“ Dear Dr. Edmunds,—I have examined the letters from
the hon. Mr. and the hon. Mrs. in your possession,
and they prove that you did receive a spontaneous invitation
from Mr. on May 20,1868, and a subsequent invitation
from Mrs. , naming the house of Mr. Guppy as the place
on which it was to be held on May 26, 1868.—Believe me,
yours very faithfully, Alfred E. Wallace.
“ James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.”
Now, after all this matter had been given by me in The
Eeport, with entire fairness and accuracy, and Mr. Guppy’s
statements had once been set right, the Spiritualist of Oct. 15
prints conspicuously the following editorial statement:—
“ Mr. Guppy says that the gentleman for whom the seance
had been arranged (the Hon. Mr. , who has considerable
influence in Parliament), permitted Dr. Edmunds to come
with him to the house. Dr. Edmunds in his paper denies
this, and says that he had a written invitation. We have
since inquired into the facts of Mrs. Guppy, who tells us that
Mrs. Dr. Edmunds called on her, and asked for an invitation,
which she refused, and added that the seance was a private
one for Mr.  . Dr. Edmunds accordingly wrote to this
gentleman, and asked for an invitation. He obtained it for
himself, but brought Mrs. Edmunds with him without any
invitation at all.”
221
A more offensive statement than this, both to Mrs. Edmunds
and myself, could not have been concocted. Every sentence
in it is false. The fact is that the Hon. Mrs.   happened
to be at St. George’s Hall, in May,1868, when I acted as Com¬
mittee for the audience, and reported upon the Davenports.
On May 20, writing to me on professional business, this lady
adds to her letter :—
“I had the pleasure of seeing you on the platform at the
Davenport exhibition the other evening, and wonder much to
what explanation or conclusion you may have been brought by
further consideration.
“ We have been invited to meet the Brothers privately. If
it would interest you to join our party, we should be very glad
of the advantage of your searching and candid mind in the
prosecution of the investigation.”
In my reply I added that I should be very pleased to assist
in any way that 1 could ; and on May 26 I received, by special
messenger, and marked “ immediate,” the letter from the
Hon. Mr.  , which was inspected by Mr. Wallace. It
apologises for the short notice—fixes the seance for “ this
evening, at 45, Great Marlborough-street,” and suggests that
I should “ bring another person with me, if I desire to do so,
provided he comes, as we do, with a sincere desire to investi¬
gate the facts and ascertain what they mean.” I believe I did
not receive this letter until I got home to dinner, and not
having time to invite any scientific friend to go with me, I
induced Mrs. Edmunds to do so. There is not a word of truth in
the offensive statement that Mrs. Edmunds called upon Mrs.
Guppy, to ask her for an invitation, &e., &c. I observe that,
for the purpose of making this attack the more offensive, you
have introduced other matters. As they are totally irrelevant
to the question at issue, I simply add that the descriptions
are as false as the statements which I have refuted.
4, Fitzroy-square, W., Dec. 11th. James Edmunds.
[By our statement about “veering round” we meant that Dr. Edmunds
veered from fairness to unfairness—not from Spiritualism to anti-Spiritual-
ism. As Chairman he fairly heard both sides. As a Committee-man he
neglected his work; he did not see those experiments in his own house on
which the Committee chiefly based their report; so, without a practical
knowledge of the facts, he drew up a most unfair article, in which he
brought a most serious and unfounded charge against a lady and gentle¬
man every way as honourable as himself and Mrs. Edmunds, so he had no
right to expect much favour. Those good qualities which Dr. Edmunds
possesses we freely admit; for instance, he has worked to forward the
medical employment of women, which few medical men have the unselfish¬
ness to do. It would greatly improve the quality and reliability of the
Dialectical Report, if in the next issue Dr. Edmunds and the editing com¬
mittee would, by mutual consent, leave out Dr. Edmunds’ article and the
essays relating thereto; also the theories of some of the Spiritualists who
gave evidence. This would give room for additional matter of more
value. Dr. Edmunds “ refutes,” or seems to refute, only one statement,
not ours, about the invitation. Why do not Dr. Edmunds and Mr. Guppy
ask the inviter, as a neutral party, to give his version ? It is the second
invitation which must have influenced the conditions on which Mrs. Guppy
allowed acquaintances to be brought by her guests.—Ed.]
Sir.—You have inserted a letter in your issue of the 15th
November, from Mr. G. Wheatly Bennett, Secretary to the
Dialectical Society, in which my name is mentioned, and I
therefore request you to insert this letter. I really can’t help
it if the Hon. Secretary uses language above my comprehen¬
sion ; he says, “ The evidently spontaneously written
invitation.” How can a written invitation be “ evidently
spontaneous ? ” I wrote once an essay on spontaneous gene¬
ration, but evidently spontaneous generation is the secret
philosophers have been disputing about, and no mortal can
tell whether an invitation is spontaneous except the man who
wrote it. What I know of the matter is, Mrs. Edmunds called
on Mrs. Guppy and requested permission for her husband to
be present at the seance. Mrs. Guppy told her, that having
promised a seance to the Hon. Mr. and Mrs. , and told
them she would not invite any other persons, she could not
accede to Mrs. Edmunds’ request; thereupon Mrs. Edmunds
said, “ Will you tell me who it is, for we know nearly all the
Spiritualists ? ” Mrs. G. told her : then Mrs. Edmunds said,
“ If we ask permission of the Hon. Mr. and Mrs. , can we
state that wo have your consent?” Mrs. G. replied, “Most
certainly, any persons who the Hon. Mr. and Mrs. invite
are most welcome.” I have nothing to add to that evidence—
but, sir, I have a few remarks to make on this seance which
was honoured by the spontaneous attendance of Dr. Edmunds.
It was a private party in my own rooms ; the subject was one
I am considered to have more experience in than almost any
one else. The company unexceptionable ladies and gentlemen.
Dr. Edmunds then, as he is now, perfectly unknown to me.
Dr. Edmunds says, speaking of my “ impressive discourse.”'
“ 1 tooh exception to it." I don’t recollect the circumstance,
it is so long ago, so must take the Dr.’s own words; but, if it
was so, I must not have been myself at the time; it might
have been that I was not long married, or else a perfect
stranger interfering with the course of a seance in my own
house, would have had short time to continue his interference.
I should like to know, supposing Dr. Edmunds gave a private
gratuitous lecture upon the subject of the human hand, and I
got in by a spontaneous invitation, and I took exception to his
discourse, what the Dr. or any other man would say. I should
expect to be told that my carriage was at the door or at the
nearest cab-stand. I do not recollect ever having been so
interfered with. The gentlemen and ladies who favour me
with their company appear to have clearer ideas of politeness
and decency. What I shall now comment on is in page 64 in
the Dialectical Report on Spiritualism. Dr. E. says, “ Every'
one being pledged to play no tricks." I might have said so,
indeed ; and if ever the subject has come up I have distinctly
declared that any one that I found playing any tricks by raps
or otherwise—I might have added, as the Dr. says, “ pulling
off their boots and walking about ”—had entered my house-
positively for the last time. I should think it just as bad as if
I had obtained a spontaneous invitation to be present at Dr.
Huggins’s observations of the stellar bodies, and then clan¬
destinely, while his back was turned, set about altering the
screws, of his telescope. Dr. E. has astonishingly curious-
notions, or are they inherent in the profession of an M.D. ?
Then he says the table had been pushed towards the blind
corner of the room. Which is the blind corner of a room
when it is perfectly dark ? Then come some remarks from
which it might be inferred that the whole s&ance was for the-
exclusive behoof of Dr. E., whose existence on this planet, and
whose opinions concern me much less than which way the-
wind blows, for the latter would influence me in taking an
umbrella or not. We next come to the figure of an angel
which Dr. Edmunds says “we found,” but which his honour¬
able inviter most distinctly and emphatically denies, and
which circumstance Dr. Edmunds bottled up for two years,
the inference open being that all alleged spirit drawings are
trickery. However, if so, I must take it all on my back, for
my wife never had a spirit drawing until I sat with her,
whereas I have had hundreds with different mediums, all, of
course, tricks. We then come to my wife’s peculiar manifes¬
tations, flowers and shrubs quite wet, of which Dr. Edmunds
222
THE SPIRITUALIST
Dec. 15, 1871.
says, “ I still believe they were taken off the sideboard by one
of the Spiritualists.” Bravo, Dr. Edmunds ; of course all the
Spiritualists were privy to the trick. The Spiritualists will
feel highly complimented, as a body, by being set down by
Dr. E. as a set of tricksters, and Mr. and Mrs. Guppy very
curious people, who open their house gratis for the perform¬
ance of these tricks by the Spiritualists.
But I must state one circumstance which, according to
marital confidence, must have been known to the Doctor. We
gave a seance to Sergeant Cox at his own house. The only
person there we had ever seen before was Mrs. Edmunds, the
Doctor’s wife. Mrs. Guppy, on entering the seance room,
said, “ Who is the greatest unbeliever ? ” Sergeant Wheeler,
of Liverpool, said, “ I have never been at a seance before.’’
Mrs. Guppy said, “ You hold one of my hands and Sergeant
Cox the other,” which was putting herself pretty well in the
clutches of the law. Two of the Sergeant’s friends secured
my bands. Flowers came for ten minutes in batches, all the
time persons at the table exclaiming, “ Are you sure you have
hold of Mr. and Mrs. Guppy’s hands?” “Yes.” Now,
according to Dr. Edmunds’ belief, Sergeant Cox must have
gone through the solemn farce of providing those flowers, and
having them thrown on the table in the dark for. the special
amusement of his friends ; but Sergeant Cox, when the sur¬
prise of his friends had a little abated, made a remark which I
have never forgotten. I have searched in vain in the letters
of Messrs. Tyndall, Huxley, Allen Thomson, and that super¬
lative writer for the Quarterly who understands things with¬
out examining them, for any remark so weighty on the sub¬
ject ; it was: “ No conjurer permits you to hold his hands
while he is performing his tricks.” Robert Houdin and the
Wizard of the North are very clever fellows, but take them
between two gentlemen, each holding a hand, and their legs,
moreover, being wedged in, and let them try. Now Mrs.
Edmunds heard all this, saw all this, and presumably told her
husband, and ail this long before the report of the Dialectical
■Society was published.
Passing all this, as the Doctor states his belief that I had
Spiritualists in my house to impose upon friends, I may as
well state my belief; and that is, that Dr. Edmunds is the
cleverest man in existence. I have had pamphlets pushed
into my hands in the streets, and also at anatomical exhi¬
bitions, enlarging upon the effects of hot climates, excesses,
secret vices, ruined constitutions, and then the infallible
treatment of Dr. Sawyer, late Nockemorff ; then letters from
men who, from the depths of ruined constitutions, have been
restored to a state of perfect youth; but I never saw so clever
a medical advertisement as Dr. Edmunds’ communication in
the Dialectical. Dr. Edmunds publishes his medical character
in page 53. It is the delineation of Mr. J. M. Spear under the
influence of Spirit power, and Dr. Edmunds guarantees its
truth, for he says : “ I believe that this delineation is one of
the most authentic and mell-defined manifestations of spirit
power on record” Is it too much to say that it's as true as
the Bible ? I recommend you, reader, to peruse it. I will
only give you one extract: “ Entering the chamber of disease
he (Dr. Edmunds) seems to help the patient by his personal
presence, rather than by prescription. A fine beautiful mag¬
netism emanates from his personality, and gives health and
strength to those who need it. But his great power lies in the
treatment of the female. The'coarser organisations and ruder
natures he cannot conquer or aid to his satisfaction. In
a just and good sense, he is a lady’s physician, and gains her
approval because he so naturally comprehends her finer
nature'' What a pleasure it must be to ladies of sensitive
organisations by being indisposed, to have a right to call in
Dr. Edmunds. I have the greatest interest in confirming
this most authentic manifestation of spirit power, for I and
the Doctor are in the same boat. Mr. J. Murray Spear
delineated my character, but I shall keep that a profound
secret until the welfare of my country demands—shall I say
—“A Saviour?” Meantime the following narrative must
interest you.
Many years, say eight or nine ago, a good man, J. Murray
Spear came here from America, with his wife, who wrote
shorthand; he was 'brought to my house by a friend, a
Spiritualist. I made him welcome, invited him to come when¬
ever his time hung heavy, and to participate without ceremony
in any mundane refreshments. He had been a Baptist or
some other minister; then he took to consoling the sick in
hospitals, and then he had a “ Spiritual call,” and finally
placed himself under the guidance of the spirits. “ Taking no
heed for themorrow,’’ the spirits ordered him to come to England.
“ I have no money,” said J. Murray Spear. “ We will look to
that,” said the spirits, and most truly the owner or captain of
a trading vessel offered him a free passage. He showed me a
diploma from some religious body in Boston, speaking well of
his character, and constituting him a kind of missionary. I
nnderstood the gist to be, “ maintain yourself if you can, but
in case of necessity we will help you,” and I presume the
spirits did not find money fast enough, for one day he came to
me in a state of great indignation, he had been robbed, de¬
frauded, or something, of twenty per cent, on a remittance
from Boston. “ You got it changed into sovereigns ? ” said I.
“ Yes.” “ Then you are not robbed.” “ But I have lost the
money,” said he. “ Was your remittance in United States
paper money?” “Yes.” “So many dollars?” “Yes.”
•“ And you have lost twenty per cent ? ” “ Yes.” Then said
I, “ Take your sovereigns and buy back your paper money,
and you will gain twenty per cent.” “ But,” said he, “ I can’t
pay my butcher with American paper money.” I could not
get it out of his head that he was an injured man. He had
very profound ideas, which the delineation of Dr. Edmunds
•clearly proves. He told me he came to England to become
partly Englishized by a sort of infusion. He had also an idea,
or rather a conviction, that a man, by eating any animal assi¬
milated qualities of the animal, for instance eating a great
•quantity of hare’s flesh would make a man timid, whereas
living on gatne cocks would make him courageous. Lion’s
flesh he considered most appropriate for warriors.
We must not presume to receive, without due respect, the
opinions of a man to whom Dr. Edmunds gives a certificate of
superhuman intelligence, and, accordingly, when the English,
who are collectively John Bull, sing their noble song—
and
| Oh, the roast beef of Old England,'
“Oh, the Old English roast beef,”
they are, although blindly, proving the truth of Mr. Spear’s
ideas. Mr. Spear brought numerous letters to Spiritualists ;
he favoured me with his company many times, and he used to
eay he went away with clearer ideas after he had been with
me. Mr. J. Murray Spear was amiable at dinners or suppers,
but it was at a tea-party he was in his glory. His wife in¬
terested the ladies with the particulars of his wonderful gift,
and then, after tea, how delightful to have your character de¬
lineated. I see him now sitting sideways at the table, his
right elbow resting on it, and his eyes shaded by his right
hand; then, perhaps, in the space of two minutes by the
watch, while the company remained in breathless anxiety and
mute attention, he passed into that state of superhuman
intelligence to which the world is indebted for Dr. Edmunds’
character, and, per contra, Mr. J. Murray Spear to Dr. Ed¬
munds for the truth of it; for Dr. Edmunds’ modesty would
have prevented his favouring the world with it, if Mr. J.
Murray Spear had not wrung it from him. While Mr. J. Mur¬
ray Spear is delivering his impressive delineation, his better
half is not idle. From her pocket come pen, ink, and note
book, and she writes down in shorthand the precious words
that fall from her husband’s lips. The evening passes con-
vivially, and the next day the happy person or persons receive
their delineation beautifully written out on fine paper by Mrs.
Spear—the well understood compliment for the delineation
being one guinea. This is the sort of delineation which
Dr. Edmunds calls “ one of the most authentic and well-
defined manifestations of spirit power on record.”
That all mediums and all Spiritualists are unreliable, is not
surprising in a medical essay, the gist of which is that Dr.
Edmunds is the man to be consulted (page 76) on injuries to
•delicate people of sensitive organisation at dark seances; but
the Dr. has opened a rich vein of profit by his essay.
I stated that I should not go into the case of the advocate
of Spiritualism mentioned in page 80 ; the person is well-
known, but seeing the egregious omission of the real causes of
insanity, it appears to me that Dr. E. is too scantily provided
with information to warrant his offer to explain the cases
privately—nay more, if the Dr. believes that which he asks the
public to believe, I will endeavour to explain myself. Some
years ago I passed a Sunday evening at the celebrated private
establishment of Dr. . Patients whose mental maladies
were mild and inoffensive, were allowed to be present with
the guests. An excellent organ and piano, music, singing,
and tea made the evening pass very agreeably. I sat next a
lady of about thirty-five ; she had travelled in many lands and
seen court life ; her conversation was marked with good sense
and intelligence. Why should she be there ? Nine o’clock
came and with it the signal for the patients to retire ; she took
out of her pocket a piece of birch-broom, about three inches
long. “ Take this,” said she, “ and if you are stopped any¬
where by the guards, show it, and they will let you pass.”
Mentioning this to Dr. , he said, “ That is her weak point.
She thinks she is detained in my house by a strong court
cabal, &c.. &c.” Now, suppose that instead of that lady
patient I had sat by Dr. Edmunds, and after conversing,
most rationally for an hour, he had told me, “ That his body
was so Chemically and pharmaceutically constituted that it
was always giving out medicines for the cure of every disorder,
that the essences filled any room that he was in, and by their
magnetic and calming effects materially, if they did not
entirely, cure patients.” I remark, “ that though I fully
admit all the doctor says, the world at large might doubt.”
Dr. E. then produces the delineation of Mr. J. Murray Spear.
I reply, “ Mr. J. Murray Spear is a very worthy man, but the
world might suppose that imagination had some share in his
delineations.” Hereupon Dr. E. makes the following asser¬
tion : “ I believe that this delineation is one of the most
authentic and well-defined manifestations of spirit-power on
record.” Now, when you consider that the Bible is but a his¬
tory of spirit-power, you will see the Dr. believes that this
delineation of his corporeal attributes to be as authentic and
well-defined as the Bible, you will allow it is coming it pretty
strong, and Spiritualists may be justified in asking for tests
before admitting the evidence of J. Murray Spear and Dr. E.
as to the wonderful body possessed by Dr. E., otherwise they
may think it is a mild case of mental delusion. In fact, if
visiting magistrates in examining patients, heard such asser¬
tions from one of them, they would have no doubt on the sub¬
ject. That J. Murray Spear should in a trance be highly
imaginative, particularly after perhaps two or three glasses of
the Dr.’s good wine, is very admissible, but that Dr. Edmunds
should endorse it in the solemn manner he does, is to say the
least of it, very surprising indeed. In fact it would lead to
the inference that the Asiatic Cholera case which was thought
to be a mare’s nest of Dr. Edmunds’ was a real case of Asiatic
Cholera, which, by the exudations from Dr. E.’s body, was
converted into a mild diarrhoea. Spiritualists, who the Dr.
denounces wholesale as deceivers and deceived, are surely
justified in asking for some further explanation respecting
Dr. Edmunds’ superhuman attributes.
The whole of Dr. Edmunds’s communication is remarkable.
How came he to be President ? One expects from a president
exhaustiveness, sound logic, candour, and impartiality. Neither
of these is there in his communication. His account of his
seance with the Davenports is below criticism. He said he
could give no explanation of the phenomena to the audience,
but on page 68 he says, “ Upon full reflection I see nothing in
the exhibition which implied anything but clevCr jugglery.”
Does he explain the juggling ? No. He then has a fling at
Mr. Coleman; having bottled up Mr. Coleman’s remark that
we should see a table go bodily up to the ceiling. Had Mr,
Coleman said “ rve may. perhaps,'' the remark would have
been logical. He then falls foul of Mrs. Marshall, who has
always borne the character of a most truthful medium. In
short, everybody is a trickster, a deceiver, subject to mental
illusions, or non compos mentis, except Dr. Edmunds, who, like
another Don Quixote with his trusty squire J. Murray Spear,
as endorser of his bodily and mental attributes, is attempting
to stem the tide of modern superstition.
. 1, Morland-villas, Highbury SAMUEL GUPPV,
Hill Park, N.
Sir,—As a humble member of what is known as the Dialec¬
tical Committee on Spiritualism, may I be allowed to con¬
tribute my mite to the correspondence published in your
journal anent that committee and matters connected with it ?
I was present at, and have a distinct recollection of, the
meeting at which Mr. Coleman is said to have used certain
words which he now denies. I can positively affirm that Mr.
Coleman did say that we should see some extraordinary things
if we consented to have a seance with Mrs. Marshall, and
motioning upwards with his hands, added, ‘ ‘ Why, the table
will go up to the ceiling.” Of course I did not understand
these words in a serious sense, but simply as an exaggerated
form of expression. In an editorial comment on a letter
signed by the hon, sec. to the committee, you remark on Dr.
Edmunds having suddenly veered round in his views on
Spiritualism. You are most certainly under a misapprehen¬
sion on this point. I can state, from personal knowledge,
that the doctor has been for some years past a most con¬
sistent, some say bitter, opponent of Spiritualism and
Spiritualists, yet, notwithstanding this fact, he behaved
throughout with the greatest impartiality, listening, with the
utmost respect, to all that was said in favour of them. I may
add that I have never heard Dr. Edmunds drop a word to
suggest that he was a convert to the reality of the “facts,”
nor even admit that there was a single grain of truth in them.
Trusting you will do me the favour of inserting this letter,
I. L. M.
[The merest tyro in Spiritualism knows that nobody can predict what will
take place at a stance, and that an experienced Spiritualist like Mr. Cole¬
man could not have made such, a promise seriously.—Ed.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
Sir,—On the 7th of last month I attended Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt’s spirit circle, which met at eight o’clock. Nine per¬
sons were present, namely, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Mr. Frank
Everitt, Miss Nisbet, Mr. Hockley, Mr. Cogman, Mr. Haase,
Mr. Mawson, and myself.
After the singing of the hymn, “Jerusalem, beautiful land
of rest,” we were directed by raps to read Ps. Ixxi. 1—4, and
we were instructed where to sit. Strong breezes, laden with
rich and varied delicious perfumes, then swept around us.
Mr. Everitt then offered prayer, after which there were con¬
tinued raps and trembling of the room. We were directed by
raps to sing “ Beautiful home also to sing, “ My home is
there.” The light was then extinguished, in obedience to
raps ; we then saw a great number and variety of ‘beautiful
lights. Mr. Cogman described several spirits. He saw
“ Nippy,” “ A Shaker Sister,” and “ John Watts’ home in the
distance.”
Just before nine o’clock I was conscious of a strange feel¬
ing as of Vae presence of some one standing over" me, and turned
my head round in the dark, almost expecting to see some¬
thing, when suddenly there was a sound as of paper rustled
in the air, a foot or two above the table, and a noise as of
a pencil making detached strokes on it. This continued while
Mr. Everitt counted six seconds, when the paper and pencil
fell on to the table.
A light was now 'struck. Just before me lay a sheet of
paper which I had previously initialed, and which I had seen
was blank at the commencement of the seance. Three parts
of one side was covered with small fine writing, legible with
difficulty, and which ran as follows :—
“ Friend, we art* very happy to meet thee; would fain meet thee oftener
to give thee a little counsel, for thy church on earth hath not kept to the
first principles. • If Christ is the true light which lighteth every man that
cometh into the world, permit us to ask thee how hast thou carried out this
injunction in thy churches now ? Ye have materially altered from the time
of the first promulgation of these heavenly doctrines. Thy churches are
much perverted by not strictly adhering to thy first counsels. Let us, then,
earnestly exhort thee to keep to thy first faith, Let not heresy creep in
among ye by blindly imagining ye are in a progressive state. Ye have not
been living the Christ life and light, the pure simple light and life of the
Gospel. Ye have been conforming too much to the life of the world ye are
living in; but when ye are summoned into the after life or another state
then wilt thou find it will be longer before ye are summoned into higher
states, because ye have not lived simple unostentatious lives hero. We do
not condemn thee, but wish to exhort and warn thee that thou dost not
degenerate any more. “ Fox, Pennington, 1647.”
This paragraph consists of 210 words. It should be remarked
that none of the company except myself were in any way con¬
nected with the Quakers, nor did anyone but myself know the
name of Pennington, who was a contemporary and intimate
friend of Fox.
Mr. Cogman told us that while the writing was going on he
saw a tall female figure in a flowing golden robe, on the table;
but he was unable to give a more definite description.
The light was now extinguished. Almost immediately the
voice of John Watt was heard : “ Good evening, friends
then, turning to me, “ Well, Edward, have you got what you
want?”
E. T. B.—“Yes, we have a paragraph signed Fox and
Pennington.”
J. W.—“Yes, Geoge Fox and Isaac Pennington.” (This was
said slowly and deliberately.)
E. T. B.—“ Can you tell us, John, who actually did the
writing ? ”
A name was given of a well-known Quaker lady who left
this world some years ago, but which I do not publish, as it
might not please her friends.
A miscellaneous conversation between John Watt and others
of the circle then took place, concluding with his peremptorily
requesting Miss Nisbet to get some coffee, and the seance con¬
cluded by ten o’clock.
Now, I am not prepared to assert my belief that the indi¬
vidual spirits of George Fox and Isaac Pennington were
engaged in transmitting this message as it appears on the
paper. But it does seem to me that very strong evidence even
to strangers, is here presented of the occurrence of extra¬
ordinary phenomena of a very interesting character.
Edward T. Bennett.
The Holmes, Betchworth, near Eeigate,
Dec. 11th, 1871.
DR. NEWTON’S CLAIRVOYANCE.
Sir,—One of your correspondents, in your September
number, gives some remarkable proofs of the clairvoyant
power of Dr. Newton. In corroboration of this, let me tell
you what occurred to me.
I had the great pleasure of seeing Dr. Newton once ; it was
at his own house. We were sitting conversing, and I remarked
that spirits frequently spoke to me, but that with three or
four exceptions I had not the remotest idea who they were,
and I probably added, that even one of these I had missed
for two or three years ; from the time that she appeared to
me in a vision, in appearance and with robes Of perfect beauty,
and in the company of the dearest friend she had on earth,
who was not of her own family.
Dr. Newton rose from his chair and walked about the room.
He said, as he still walked : “ Your grandmother takes a deep
interest in you.” I had never received any communication
that I recognised as from her. I said, “Which grandmother ? ”
“Your maternal grandmother,” he answered. I never saw
my father’s mother. I believe she died before I was born.
Dr. Newton said, “You have several brothers, but you were
the favourite of your grandmothers.” I answered; “ Well, I
suppose that was because I was the youngest.” Dr. Newton
went on and said, “ You have five brothers.” “ No,” I
answered, “ I have, or had, only four.” Dr. Newton said,
“ You have five, there was a miscarriage.” Dr. Newton then
said, “Your grandmother was short.” “No,” I said, “she
was tall.” He said, “ She appears to me to be short because
she walks thus.” He bent his body and kept walking and
moving his right hand as though he were using a stick.
“ Yes,” I said, “ with a stick.” I never remember seeing my
grandmother walking out of doors without her staff in my
life ; it was apparently a necessity.
Subsequently I said to the spirit John King, at a private
seance, P Dr. Newton told me that one of the spirits who
* 11 Art” instead of “are” appears to be tke only mistake, though part
of the rest is confused as to its meaning.—E. T. B.
Dec. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
223
speaks to me is a friend of my early youth, can you tell me
who it is ? ” John King replied, “ What 1 do you mean that
dear old lady ? ’’
1 In your last leading article on “ The Work of a Psycho¬
logical Society ” you propound the following : “ As mortals
can produce some of the phenomena of trance and seeing
mediumship, can we also control a ‘ circle ’ and make tables
move about?” and as a sequence you give some evidence in
favour of a possible solution of the problem.
i send you the following notes, taken some time back from
an American paper which seem to favour your proposition.
Whether they can be generally relied on I cannot say:—“ At a
circle it requires three positives to balance one negative.
Positives have warm hands, negatives cold hands. If two
negatives remain at a table, at least three positives must sit
opposite. When a circle is so established, physical phenomena
invariably follow. If after three or four minutes the hands
are all of the same temperature, abandon the table. The brain
of each individual charges the hands and arms, and an impulse
from the will moves the table. The table, by means of the
mental battery, becomes saturated with the same fluid which
the hand and arm acquired from the brain ; and an impulse
of any spirit—whether in or out of the body—will move it.
The spirit comes into direct contact with the gross matters
out of which the arm or the table is composed.” I have made
no note of the name or date of the Spiritualist journal from
which the above extract is epitomised. W. R. T.
Sir,—The following is not on a subject T should care to
recur to were it not in proof of the accurate clairvoyance of
Dr. Newton under spirit influence, as well as a lesson in
natural philosophy.
In a letter I sent you last month, I remarked that the only
time I ever met him, Dr. Newton said to me, “You have five
brothers?” I answered, “No; I have, or had, only four.”
Dr. Newton replied, “You hgve five brothers; there was a
miscarriage.” In my letter to you I made no comment on
this assertion, as I was absolutely ignorant on the subject. A
few days back I was on a visit to a sister. She quite inciden¬
tally told me an anecdote which, if I had heard before, I had
totally forgotten. My sister said that'our mother once had an
accident at Boreham, in Essex, attended by pecuhar circum¬
stances, which I need not here describe; the result was an
illness, and a consequent miscarriage. W. R. T.
Nov. 9, 1871.
[The first of these letters was sent us for publication in October, and the
second for November; we could not find room for them before.—Ed.]
THE “ aHABTEKLT REVIEW ” ARTICLE.
Sir,—I have just read the article in the Quarterly Review
entitled “Spiritualism and its recent Converts,” in which,
among many other statements which the author discredits, is
the account given by Mr. Crookes of his experiments with
Mr. Home with the accordion. He seems to express a desire
that the experiment be tried in open daylight, and above in¬
stead of under a table, and in the presence of trustworthy
witnesses. I think I can satisfy him on all of these points
(provided I am trustworthy, which I am considered to be by
those who knowme). Atas&race in my own house the accordion,
while suspended by the lower end from one of Mr. Home’s
hands (while the other hand rested on the table), by which he
held it at least two feet above the table, did play, and the
whole party, consisting of seven persons, heard it, and more¬
over, saw the keys and the bellows move simultaneously,
which latter point the writer appears to have great doubt
about. I may also add that the room was fully lighted, every
part of it being distinctly visible.
I should also state that Mr. Home did not see the accordion
till it was given him after we were seated at the table, and
that during the time the accordion was playing, I passed my
hand all round it, in order that I should be perfectly satisfied
that nothing was attached to the keys.
G. S. Thomson, M.D.,
4, Worcester-lawn, Clifton, Bristol.
Nov. 19, 1871.
SPIRITUALISM IN ST. JOHN’S WOOD.
On Tuesday evening, Nov. 28th, the Young Men’s Insti¬
tute, connected with the Congregational Chapel, St. John’s-
Wood-terrace, held a meeting to consider the subject of
Spiritualism. The room was filled to overflowing, and many
of the persons present were not members of the institute.
The Rev. John Thomas presided.
Mr. Fordham, the secretary, read the minutes of the last
meeting.
Mr. Baird then moved that the rule “ that each member
shall have the power to introduce one friend ” should be
enforced, as many persons in the room had no right to be
present.
Mr. C. W. Pearce said that, as one of the strangers, he rose
to explain that a notice that the meeting would be held had
been published in several newspapers, in consequence of which
many persons interested in Spiritualism were present; they
had just learnt that the notices in the papers were unautho¬
rised by the institute. Seeing that the mistake had been
made, he trusted that the institute would suspend the rule
on that occasion, because of the exceptional circumstances of
the case, and because several friends had come long distances
to be present.
Mr. Usher said that they could not be allowed to remain.
. Mr. Hocker explained that it was not his fault that the
unauthorised notices had been printed in the newspapers.
The Chairman said that the rule about introducing one
friend had never been enforced before, and he had always
deemed it to be the feeling of the members that its meetings
should be as open as possible, so much so that he was in the
habit of giving general invitations from the pulpit to young
men to attend. The rule had never been applied before ; it
had often been broken, so he did not see how it could be
enforced then.
Mr. Fordham said that on previous occasions the surplus
number of friends had been brought by members, and it could
hardly be supposed that all the persons then present were
invited by members.
Mr. Baird declined to withdraw his motion.
Mr. Pace seconded the motion.
It was then moved and seconded that the visitors be ad¬
mitted.
Mr. C. W. Pearce said that he would relieve the institute
of a difficulty. It was plain that visitors were not cordially
welcomed, so he would leave at once.
Mr. Pearce then left, and all the other non-members rose to
follow. The chairman then urged them to remain, in which
request the members joined, the result being that, after some
confusion, all present took their seats again.
The Chairman said that he was sorry for what had taken
place. It was not in accordance with his sympathies, and he
should be glad to see the visitors present every Tuesday even¬
ing, whatever might be the subject of discussion.
Mr. Hocker then read a paper on Spiritualism, in which he
argued that spiritual phenomena were veritable facts. He
cited the results of the labours of the Dialectical Society; he
quoted the testimony of a large number of philosophers and
men of letters; and, after giving a great quantity of substan¬
tial evidence, he threw out for discussion the question—“ Is
Spiritualism fraud, fancy, or fact ?”
The Chairman—Will you move that the subject come before
the meeting for discussion ?
Mr. Hocker said that he did not think that it was usual to
do so; he thought that at the last meeting it had been
resolved that it should be discussed. However, he would
make the motion.
After a short pause, Mr. Saunders said that, as the motion
had not been seconded, the subject could not be discussed by
the meeting.
Mr. Hunt seconded the resolution, which was passed.
Mr. Saunders asked whether the seconder of the resolution
was a member of the institute, because if not, the subject
could not be considered.
The Chairman replied that Mr. Hunt was a member.
A blank silence followed, which lasted nearly five minutes,
so that the subject appeared likely to drop for want of verbal
opposition,
Mr. Usher then said that in reply to the question, “ Is
Spiritualism fraud, fancy, or fact ?” he should say that it was
a very clever combination of all three. (Applause.) He
believed that the rapping noises were all ventriloquism—
(laughter)—and the other manifestations were produced by
mesmerism and galvanism. Spirits, he thought, were made
visible by means of lanterns and reflecting looking-glasses.
(Laughter.) Professor Pepper could bring a dozen ghosts on
the stage before a public audience, whereas Spiritualists could
only work in a small darkened room, where they act upon
imaginative people till the latter think that they see every
possible and impossible thing. (Hear, hear, and applause.)
Mr. Pace wanted to know why these things were seen only
at one circle and with closed doors ? Why were not the
public invited to be present ? The Spiritualists needed so
many things in the room, and he would never believe unless
they proved it to him in an empty room with nobody in it—
(laughter)—he meant nobody in it but themselves. If their
departed friends could come from the next world, would they
not. be more likely to come at the bidding of their earthly
relatives, rather than at the bidding of a medium ? Mr.
Hocker had said that “sometimes the state of the atmo¬
sphere would interfere with the occurrence of the manifesta¬
tions.” Ah, perhaps the atmosphere would not let the
chemicals work. (Laughter.) The atmosphere stops photo¬
graphy sometimes. What had the atmosphere to do with
calling up the spirits ? Why could not they be called in the
light as well as in the dark ? Why did not a medium come to
! that meeting and call up spirits so that all present should see
them ? If there was any truth or honesty in Spiritualism,
why did not Spiritualists open their doors and ask the public
in, instead of wanting half-a-crown or three shillings ? ( A
voice—“ Aye, aye; that’s it.”) At a religious meeting nothing
of the kind is done. Did they ask sixpence or a shilling of
the Spiritualists present to come to that meeting ?
Mr. Cullen said that he thought Spiritualism to be all the
work of the devil, and he quoted nearly all the texts in the
Bible against necromancy and witchcraft. He admitted the
manifestations to be facts, but believed that these modern
spirits went about under false names, and that they were the
agents of the devil.*
Mr. T. Everitt said that just as Mr. Cullen based his objec¬
tions to Spiritualism on the Bible, so did he (Mr. Everitt)
base his advocacy of Spiritualism on the Bible—the Word of
God. He held in his hands some papers that had been written
in mid air by spirits, without contact with mortal hands ;
they had all been written in his house, and the papers were
on Scripture subjects. He should be obliged if the secretary
would read one of the papers ; the names and addresses of the
witnesses present when it was written were appended to it.
Mr. Fordham—Did the spirits write this ?
Mr. Everitt—Yes.
Mr. Fordham—Why, it is printed ! (Laughter.)
Mr. Everitt—So is the Bible. I have the originals in my
hand, and that is a printed copy of one of them. All of them
will he printed when the series is finished. That message in
your hands was written by the spirits themselves, in five
seconds, without contact with mortal fingers. There were
ten witnesses. The clean piece of paper was initialed before
the spirits wrote on it. The witnesses were Mr. and Mrs.
Britten, Mrs. Floyd, and Mrs. Wilkinson, all of 6, Vassall-
terrace, Kensington ; Miss Nisbet, of the Trongate, Glasgow;
Mr. Henderson, 49, King William-street, City ; Mr. Hockley,
167, Liverpool-road, Islington ; Mrs. Everitt, my son Frank,
and myself. The spirits said that they intended that message
foi the religious world generally.
Mr. Hulks then took the paper and read the message as
follows :—“ Some people have an idea that spiritual com¬
munications have ceased because they are no longer necessary.
Now the Word lends no countenance to that at all. It does
not tell you that in the latter day all spiritual communications
shall cease, but declares that in the latter day the influence of
the Holy Spirit shall be more powerfully felt, the connection
of man with the spiritual world shall be closer, and the pro¬
bability of spiritual intercourse greater. (Joel ii. 28, 29.)
There is not a single passage in the Word of God which asserts
all communications shall cease with the spiritual world, but
there are many which assert an abundant outpouring of the
Divine influence, and a diversity of spiritual gifts not known
before. Very few now seem to deny the possibility of men
having been permitted to behold the secrets of the invisible
world ; their great objection is that such persons are not to be
looked for at the present day, and that even were men so
favoured, the things above are unutterable, and they could
not therefore explain them .to others ; this they ground on
Paul’s words, which by no means prove the conclusion which
has been drawn from them. It was not that he could not
have described what he had seen (for John afterwards both
saw and described), but because he was forbidden to describe
them. It was not lawful, or it was not permitted for man to
utter them. The Lord said to his disciples, ‘ I have many
things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.’ For
this very reason the Apostle was forbidden to declare the
things he had heard and seen in the Spirit World ; the time
* The leiding arg aments for and. against the witchcraft theory are
printed in No. 13 of f/se Spiritualist.—Ed.
was not then come ; they could not have borne it. This is
not the slightest-proof that the things in heaven or the Spirit
World cannot be described ; but, on the contrary, if light is
to be given to the world, it must come through the medium of
a human instrument, and how is that instrument to be
qualified for his task unless he has intercourse with the invi¬
sible world ?”
A Member—Was that written in the dark ?
Mr. Everitt—Yes. (Oh, oh.) Darkness makes no difference
to truthful people, and bear in mind, my friends, that the
paper was a clean sheet, which was initialed just before the
seance began. If any juggler in the world could do the same
thing under like conditions, I should be very much surprised.
Mr. Hulksj—So many dark seances are recorded in Scripture
that I am surprised that any members of the institute should
object to them. The Chairman says that our time is up, so I
am going to move the adjournment of the debate.
Mr. Saunders rather objected to the resumption of the
debate on another occasion.
Mr. Baird seconded the motion for the adjournment of the
debate. He thought they had better make a public meeting
of it, and hold it in a larger place.
The resolution was carried unanimously.
The Chairman said that it was only right that the members
should stand up for the laws of their institute, and he hoped
the strangers present would take that view of the case, and
not think them conservative, and narrow, and afraid of inves¬
tigation, for such was not the spirit of the members generally.
He should be pleased to meet all the friends present, if they
would come again on the following Tuesday, and an endeavour
would be made to provide a larger place for their accommo¬
dation.
The proceedings then closed, but for a considerable time
afterwards the members clustered round Mr. Everitt, and
questioned him about spiritual manifestations.
On published placards relating to the institute, the follow¬
ing sentence is printed—“ Young men are earnestly invited
to attend.”
Several ladies came to hear the discussion, but were not
admitted by the St. John’s Wood Young Men’s Congrega¬
tional Institute.
On Tuesday, December 6th, the adjourned meeting was
opened by Mr. Hulks, who strongly supported Mr. Hocker’s
paper.—Mr. Baird ridiculed Spiritualism altogether as impos¬
ture, and said that Dr. Edmunds was the only reliable man on
the Dialectical Committee.—Mr. Duncan (a Swedenborgian)
said that the manifestations were real, but he questioned
whether they were good. As Mr. Baird had no practical
knowledge on the subject, he ought not to have spoken.—Mr.
C. W. Pearce supported Mr. Hocker. He saw on the walls of
the room the text, “He shall give his angels charge over
thee,” and how could angels have charge over anybody with¬
out coming into contact with them ? Mr. Baird was out of
court altogether, as he had no practical knowledge of the sub¬
ject.—Mr. Barnet thought the subject not suitable for a pub¬
lic meeting, but admissible at a private one, so moved that
Mr. Hocker be called on to reply.—Mr. Baird seconded this.—
Mr. Hunt moved the adjournment of the debate. He said that
he had been a most hardened Materialist, and that Spiritualism
had brought him a knowledge of a future state ; he was,
therefore, intensely pained by the flippant language of Mr.
Baird.—Mr. Baker seconded the adjournment.—Seven voted
in favour cf the adjournment, and ten against; the many non¬
members present could not vote.—Mr. Hocker replied.—The
Rev. J. Thomas (chairman) said that there was no time for him
to make any remarks.—Four (who had practical knowledge of
the subject) voted that spiritual phenomena were facts, and
fourteen that they were not facts.
Messrs. Herne and Williams, 61, Lambs Conduit-
street, Holborn, hold seances every Saturday evening at seven
o’clock, for Spiritualists only, and the manifestations are
usually good.
Faraday’s Spirit.—The following is an extract from the
“Faraday Lecture,” delivered by M. J. Dumas, Senateur;
President de la Commission des Monnaies et Medailles ; Member,
and one of the Perpetual Secretaries of the Institut; Inspecteur
General de VEnseignement Superieur; President de la Societe
d’Encouragement pour VIndustrie Nationale; Grand Croix de
la Legiond’IIonneur, Ac., Ac.:—“No, life neither begins nor
ends on the earth; and if we were not convinced that Faraday
does not rest wholly under a cold stone ; if we did not believe
that his intelligence is present here among us and sympa¬
thises with us, and that his pure spirit contemplates us, we
should not have assembled on this spot—you to honour his
memory, I to pay him once more a sincere tribute of affection,
of admiration, and respect.” The lecture was delivered before
the Chemical Society of London, in the theatre of the Royal
Institution, on Thursday, June 17th, 1869, and the sentence
we have quoted was loudly applauded.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Alpha, Glasgow.;—You should have sent your name and address.
S., Cape-town.—Scarcely suitable. Can you send us authentic in¬
formation about any spiritual phenomena among the savages in
your neighbourhood, and how does the movement progress
among the civilised population ?
E. J., Holywell.—The experiment is interesting. Can you send
us .the details of others of a like nature?
P., Sandown.—Yes. The members of the medical profession do
not neglect Spiritualism, and there is a fair proportion of them
in our ranks.
No room in this number for a review of Mr. Peebles’ book, “The
Spiritual Pilgrim.”
“ The Medium ” newspaper of Dec. 8th, says of a meeting of the St.
John’s Association, that, after the Secretary had read letters from
officers of provincial societies—“ as the reporter of a contempor¬
ary kindly pocketed all the documents, we are prevented from
making extracts.” An hour after the Secretary read the letters,
our reporter asked him for them, and had no knowledge whatever
that our contemporary wished to see them till the foregoing sen¬
tence was seen in print. The implied charge of dishonourable con¬
duct, therefore, has not the slightest foundation in truth.
Received:—Robert Dale Owen’s “Debatable Land” (Triibner and
Co.); Miss Rye’s “ What the People say about the Children ”
(Wade); Tyndall’s “Fragments of Science for Unscientific
People ” (Longmans); “ The Quarterly Review; ” “ The Derby¬
shire Times;” “The Birmingham Morning News;” “The
Weekly Times;” “The Cape Argus” (South Africa); “John
O’ Groat’s Journal;” “Woman’s Suffrage ” (Manchester); “ The
Liverpool Courier;” “The Seat of the Soul” (J. J. Lemare);
“ The Court Journal ” (three Nos.); Gerald Massey’s “Concerning
Spiritualism ” (J. Burns). This last book was received on Tues¬
day night, Dec. 12th, too late for review in this number.
In this number we have been unable to find room for the letters of
C. W. P., J. H. D., and T. B.
Can anybody oblige us with the address of Mr. S. Chadwick, the
mesmeric lecturer ?
224
THE SPIRITUALIST
Dec. 15, 1871
FACTS FOB, NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
■within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on 1 he testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of .Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight.' In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. p. P. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all-made affidavits
strongly in favour of; Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence;given at .the*
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and urf-
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the lata Em¬
press Dowager o'f Russia, the Grand Duke Con-
stajrtine, the King of Prussia, the late'King or
Bavaria, the late King’of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never 'taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“ Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., Holly House, Bark¬
ing; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, R.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. 0. Hall, Esq., IS, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-grefen, Esher, Surrey;
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house,..Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a hook, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism.. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of ? explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me."
Mr. 0. F. Varley, O.E., F.R.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that . Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits. ■
i Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late'American Consul at Trebizond, that
he...had seen some of the phenomena; and they
appeared to he produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
Dr. Hooker; in his opening’address, as President''
of: the British Association st Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific, attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wnliace; F.L(.B. Mr. 'Vy’aljace.is an
avowed'Spiritualist. Professbr Hare, Of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’S Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
al leging ’ that' Faraday’s ‘1 unconscious muscular
action’’theory, explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to hini detailing things he had seem which '
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once, -
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The.
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed- relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the'
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of 'Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment.. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency, occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S. (editor of The Quarterly
Journal of Science)^ Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Royal
Society), have certified that'certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. ’A scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Book of Nature, by C.» 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John’Camden'
Hotten, 1870), 'has a preface by the late" Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is hut one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of .this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No ; for amidst the varieties, of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism."
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words"
“ I now offer- you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
- “ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in-the-above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
.facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this, challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way,’ I offer a like challenge of- five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either Case, the stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party; at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“Awaiting a reply to this letter, and. to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, , , G. DAMIANI.
I - Clifton, Oct. 1, 1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Com-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to tfie above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the'United -States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are' no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
Wien reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this \
Journal, non-SoiritualiSts should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
iust the same as spirits in, the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statement's of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. . Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that, contradictory, messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not'altogether agree; there is no-more iiniforxnity
in the next world than in this one. It is (be business ‘of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO EORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental 'trial, at home, among family
'fpehds; and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of’wie reality <Jf spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the Same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking' manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
.family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
pn, this point1 have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a goon plan of
action
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shsfU enter it, and that there shall be no intef-
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle Consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do; just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it, is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
■acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should, be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium?” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related. or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
The royal institution
GREAT BRITAIN.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR 1872.
OF
Friday Evening Meetings, at Eight o’clock p.m.
January 19, 26; February 2, 9, 16, 23; March 1, 8, 15,
22; April 12, 19, 26; May 3, 10, 17, 24, 31; and June 7. '
General Monthly Meetings :—Mondays, at Two
o’Olock, p.m.: February 5; March 4; April 1; May 6;
June 3; July 1; November 4; and December 2.
General Annual Meeting for Election of Officers:
Wednesday, May 1, at Two o’clock p.m.
Lecture Arrangements :—The hour, 3 o’clock. ■
Christmas Lectures (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory).
Prof. Tyndall, LL.D. F.R.S.—Six Lectures, On Ice,
Water, and Air, on December 28, 30, 1871; January
2, 4, 6, 9, 1872.
Before Easter, 1872.
Dr. W. Rutherford, F.R.S.E.—Ten Lectures. On the
Nervous and Circulatory Systems, on Tuesdays, January
16 to March 19.
Prof. Odling, F.R.S.—Ten Lectures on the Chemistry
of Alkalies and Alkali Manufacture, on Thursdays,
January 18 to March 21.
Moncure D. Conway, Esq.—Four Lectures, on De¬
monology, on Saturdays, March 2 to 23.
After Easter, 1872.
Dr. Wm. A. Guy, F.R.S.—Three Lectures, On Statistics,
Social Science, and Political Economy, on Tuesdays,
April 9,16, and 23.
Edward B. Tylor, Esq., F.R.S.—Six Lectures, On the
Development of Belief and Custom amongst the Lower
Races of Mankind, on Tuesdays, April 30 to June 4.
Prof. Tyndall, LL.D., F.R.S.—Nine • Lectures, on
Thursdays, April 11 to June 6.
R. A. Proctor, Esq., B.A., F.R.A.S.—Five Lectures,
On Star Depths, on Saturdays, April 13 to May 11.
Prof. Roscob, F.R.S.—Four Lectures, On the Chemical
Action of Light, on Saturdays, May 18 to June 8,
SUBSCRIBERS TO LECTURES.
. For all the Courses of Lectures (extending, from
Christmas to Midsummer) pay Two Guineas.
For a single Course, pay one Guinea or Half-a-Guinea,
according to the length of the Course.
I For the Christmas Course, Children under Sixteen
years of age pay Half-a-Guinea.
The Friday Evening Discourses before Easter willpro&a-
bly be given by Mr. W. R. Grove, Q.C., The Archbishop
of Westminster, (Professors Odling and Humphry, Dr.
Gladstone, Messrs. C. W. Siemens, R. Liebreich, and
John Evans, and Professor Tyndall.
Syllabuses of the Lectures and Friday Evening
Meetings (when prepared) may be obtained at the
House of the Institution, Albemarle-street.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
FOR EFFECTING
BANKING LIFE, & SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES
ON GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.
Head Offices:
Brown-street and Mars,den-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices
20, King William-street, London, E.C.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Renfield-street, Glasgow,
4, College-green, Dublin.
1, Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-pla'ee, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARE
It pi-ovides Government fe<;uHty for ilie Life frernipnp.
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses of Management, Reserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees acf indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorse on each Policy
and payable'on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “Surrender-values" can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premimns paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums,.an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “ Paid-up ” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OE spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
Mies lottie fowler, medical
AND BUSINESS . CLAIRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF En¬
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston,' E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock ; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. THOS. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
The committee of the dalston
ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO SPI¬
RITUALISM has made arrangements for the THIRD
SPECIAL SEANCE (this season), to be held on Friday
Evening, 29th instant, at the Rooms of the Association,
74, Navarino Road, Dalston, E., at Eight o’Olock pre¬
cisely, when the services of Messrs. Herne and Williams
have been engaged for the occasion. Admission by
Tickets, price 2s. each. Members of the Association,
Is: each.
A YOUNG LADY, aged 20, a Physical
Medium, desires a Situation in or near London
as GOVERNESS. Teaches English, Arithmetic, Music,
Singing, Rudimentary French and Drawing. Disen¬
gaged at Christmas. Good References. Address,
0. M. M., 3, Comwallis-road, Holloway, N.
Footfalls on the boundary
OF ANOTHER WORLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition. Post 8vo. Pp. xx—392. Cloth
7s. 6d.
The debatable land between
THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT.—By Robert
Dale Owen, Author of “ Footfalls on the Boundary of
another World.” 1 vbl. crown 8vo. cloth.
[In a-few days. '
Now Ready, Crown 8vo., cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Hints for the evidences of
SPIRITUALISM. By M. P., Author of “The
Dean of Canterbury on Science and Revelation,” “Pleas
for Free Inquiry,’-’.&c.
London: Triibner and Co., 8 and 60, Paternoster-row.
Now Ready. 4th Edition. 8vo. cloth, pp. 360. Price. 3s. 6d
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Revelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
, “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow.”—
Athenxum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a hew revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
“ The ‘ Alpha ’ is the book of an a,ge."—Banner of Light.
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTURES,” cloth
8vo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d.
J. BURNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
Now ready, price 4s.
The journal of the anthro-
POLOGIAL INSTITUTE OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND IRELAND, No. II. October. 1871, containing
papers by Major Godwin-Austen on the Khasi Hill
Tribes; Rev. Dr.Callaway on Divination, &c., among the
Natives of Natal; Mr. F. G. N. Price on the Quissama
Tribe of Angola; Lieut. Musters, R.N., on the Races of
Patagonia; Mr. Hodder Westropp on Analagous Com-
cidence's among unconnected Nations; Mr. H. Howorth
on Westerly Driftings of Nomades; with Discussions
and Anthropological Miscellanea. London: Triibher
and Co. . , ,
• Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Reports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, pro and contra,
of the following eminent persons :rr-Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, (Lprd Bortfiwick ; the . Confess ■ de • Pomfir;
'Professor Huxley^.ProfessorTyndatkv‘'Dfs, W. 'B:
Carpehter| Chambers, DaVey; Biioh, Efimjmcls; '“Kidd;
RobeitsOn, ' Garth 'WilkinSohY Mr, Serjeant: Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson, Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, LCon Favre, Camille
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, . D. D. Home, William
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawjkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trpllppej^rixa-,
well Varley, A. R. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; MesifieS-
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &c., &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his
LIFE AND WRITINGS. ■ By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings,'by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of. Skara. II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London: Simpkm, Marshall and Co.
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper.
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Alien,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST.—No. 1 of The
Spiritualist contains an overwhelming weight of
evidence for the general public, as to the truth and
reality of Spiritual phenomena. No. 13 contains the
leading arguments in favour of and against the theory
that the manifestations are due to Satanic agency.
No. 26 contains the Official Report of the Committee of
the DjaleqticabSociety on Spiritualism, the result of two
years investigation.
London :’ E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.O.
(Contents.
Messrs, herne and williams,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private seatices from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.O.
MR. THOMAS R. MASON teactes
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAR, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
vUle Road, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (comique), entitled ‘ Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. R. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals, in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of
The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOEBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.’
Estimates forwarded on application.
The Psychological Society     ... 217
Miss Kate Fox’s Mediumship s.   217
The “ Quarterly Review ” on Spiritualism 217
The Royal Institution!     ...  217
Other World Order      218
Spirit-Rapping in John Wesley’s Family. PartX.... 218
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists 219
Reviews:—“Fragments of Science for Unscientific
People;’.’ “The Debatable Land between this
World and the Next ”    220
Poetby:—Spirit Poetry       22T
Correspondence:—Spiritual Powers and the
Roman Catholic Church, 221; The Paper by
Dr. Edmunds, 221; Direct Spirit Writing, 222;
Dr. Newton’s Clairvoyance, 222; The “Quar¬
terly Review” Article ...' ..V .„ ...’ ... ...223
Spiritualism in St. John’s Wood   223
Faraday’s Spirit  .... ... 223
Answers to Correspondents  223
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing. Works, Full wood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.
