AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOE TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 123.--—(Vol. VI.—No. 1.) LONDON: JANUARY 1, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence-
(Emitems.
1874 ..} '     ...     1
The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums   2
The Philadelphia Evidence for Spirit Materialisation. By the Hon. Robt.
Dale Owen    -   ... ... ... ... ... ... 3
Lectures at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s. The Late Mr. .1. \Y. Jackson 3
Materialised Spirit Forms. By Benjamin Coleman   ... [4
The Mediumship of the Eddy Brothers ...     5
A Haunted House in Ancient Athens. By St. George W. Stock, B.A.
(Oxon) ... ... ... ■ ...      ... •  C
Spiritualism in East London     ..' 7
The Doctrine of Immortality among the Ancient Egyptians. No. III. 8
Offices for the National Association  1   8
Correspondence:—The Qdour of Sanctity; Mr. John Bright at a, Stance;
Spirit Materialisation and De-Materialisation at Newcastle-on-Tyne;
A Correction; Orthodoxy   ...  • ... 10
Paragraphs:—The National Association Monthly/Shims, 6; The Pro-/
posed Illustrated Spiritual Periodical, 9; Dalston Association, 11;
Passed to Spirit Life, 12; Spiritualism in Carrickfergus, 12; Spirit-
ualism in Darlington, 12; The Circulation of Periodicals   12
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 26 Viet., cap. 89 )
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FOBM .OF ASSURANCE. ;
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray, Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.-—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., C. N. C. Hutton, Esq., J.P.. Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq, Alderman, M. E. Marsden, E.-s > R B Martin, Esq., M.A-,
F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J. C.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffln).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
C
Weekly Allow¬
ance for ,
Total I Partial
Disable- Disable,
ment. ment.
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
Pajmt
within
Two Yrs
*' A. B ’’ Insuring a sum
if Killt'd; and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
£ £ s. d.
1000 600
500 3 0 0
250> 1 30 0
100' 100
£ s. d.
110 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
3 0 0
I 14,0
018 0
0 10 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0.
0 10 0
0>6 0
‘ A.’’ Death only.
1000
500
1 10
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
0 11 6-
0 6 6
1B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
60 0
3 0 0
1 10,0
0 IS 0
2 0
3 0
1' 2 6
0 12 6
12 6
0 12 6
Forms, Prospectuses, and further particulars on application to
. MB. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
LE MESSAGED, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, -Rue de la Cathddrale, Liege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiqnes,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
. Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied,' are requested 1o communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules, maybe had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT TEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOININO, AFTER THIS DATE.
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY. MRS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,-
71, Mortimer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
Alexander Calder. Esq., The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr,
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W,: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself’ and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s-., and 12s. each. .
There will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s-
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at'the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.-^-29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of''British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &C., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o'clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
)NE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. Thisnumber of 2%e ’/§)iri<Malf6'i! is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave.Maria-lane, E:C.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2^d. Published, on
the 15th of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine
street, London.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-Street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan, 1, 1875.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OkficetBeabebs eoe 1874,
President.—James ‘Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. Q-. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
. Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charltop.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.-
kALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions:—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary at the Rooms as above.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
N.B.—Special arrangements are made for the last Thursday evening
In each month.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Jot (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, H.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIYE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale,
PIRITUALISM AND REFORM. ‘ ‘ The Banner of Light ”
■ Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Tear, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Turee Months, 75 cents.
. ,C. &R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Aefarmatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
Now ready, price Sixpence,
THE DAY OF PENTECOST AND ITS PHENOMENA.
A Sermon-Lecture by Frederic Rowland Young, Minister of the
Free Christian Church, New Swindon, and formerly Editor of the
Christian Spiritualist. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms,bn Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
afVeaswra'.—Herbert N. Mozlet, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
The Best Book for Enqjiirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
GOSWELL HALL.
A SOIREE
(in aid of the Sunday services), mil be held at
GOSWELL HALL, 86, GOSWELL ROAD, E.C.
ON THURSDAY, 7th JANUARY, 1875.
Doors open at 6.30. Chair taken by Mr. T. Slater, at 7 p.m.
Tickets Is. each, may be obtained of Mr. Haxby, Mrs. Bullock, and of
Mr. J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W. C.
THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
established in 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributers to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crpokes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat).; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. E. L. S. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
. © Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E. > '  '
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
© SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham,, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY <}E0B,GB SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, Ac
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor.' Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual1-
istn. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publicatioris. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c. >
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, Lpndon, E.O.
VOI/UjVIE £IX. JvfUJVtBEF^ ONE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 1st, 1876.
C{y,e SpinLalist St^ixTip^ar.
Established in 1869.
C" HARGrE EOR ADYERTISEMENTS Three shillings
, and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among tho'se whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to mate them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '■'•The Spiritualist'1'' in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen. 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN EOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c.,T49, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamfprd, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, ll, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, bj-remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order ,for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of fee
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—Fitzroy-square, W.
1874.
The chief feature of the past year, in relation to the
progress of Spiritualism in Great Britain, has been the
formation of a national organisation, to permit Spirit¬
ualists who desire friendly union to meet together in
love and goodwill, to work unitedly on equahterms, and
to elect by ballot those Spiritualists who, by free vote,
can command most public confidence, to those positions
in an organisation which must necessarily be occupied
by individuals. In laying down the rules of the organi¬
sation great skill and care were exercised, the regula¬
tions which govern good working bodies, like the learned
societies and sound public companies, having been
laid under contribution and moulded, with additions,
into a constitution under which the greatest freedom
and individuality is secured to every member of the
Association, in which rich and poor alike have but
one vote, and are equally eligible for election to all
offices, from that of president downwards.
This attempt at friendly union on equal terms has,
of course, been opposed, as all new undertakings on
this earth inevitably are, but Spiritualists of educa¬
tion and culture, and the best working members of the
body, such as the presidents and secretaries of local
societies, have very generally joined the Association.
As the germ is thus so strong in all its parts, so sound
and healthy in character, so good and pure in the prin¬
ciples on which it is founded, it must of necessity grow.
If dissensions should arise, of which there are no symp¬
toms at present, the points at issue can be submitted to
a large and impartial body of members, whose decision
is sure to be tolerably just. If no dissensions arise,
so much the better. The tendency of the step will be
to promote friendly union and to stop discord inside
the movement, and to give strength to Spiritualism in
the -matter of its relation to the outside world. After
much discussion on the subject, it has been clearly
established that there is nothing essentially good or
bad in organisation itself, the function of which is
merely to give strength, but the principles governing
an organisation determine its influence for good or
evil., If, therefore, organisation in Spiritualism is bad,
Spiritualism itself must be bad also, but no valid
reason has been advanced to show that union would
not be as good in Spiritualism as in any other religious
or scientific movement.
In the study of the subject not much has been done.
Strong mediums are few and far between, and very,
very few persons are devoting the greater portion of
their lives to the observation and study of the facts.
It has been discovered that messages given even by
physical manifestations which take place at a distance
from the mediums, are usually coloured to a very large
extent by the opinions of the mediums and by the
influence of the sitters in the circles, and the great
difficulty is to separate that which is of the spirit from
that which is of man; this work of learning how to
separate the two, and to evolve the one rather than
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the other, 'will require patient labour for years. In
the meantime the first religious effect of Spiritualism
is to break some of the cramping bonds of antiquity,
such, for instance, as the doctrine of eternal punish¬
ment. When freed from several hurtful old restraints,
new ideas begin to take their place, partly from
spiritual sources, but in a great measure from the
exercise of common-sense thought, on the part of the
individual, which is why the general teachings of
Spiritualism are much the same as those contained in
free-thinking books like some of those published by
Mr. Trubner, written by persons who know nothing of
Spiritualism, but ought to be glad of it because of. the
seal of reliability which its hard facts will attach to
their ideas. As accurate knowledge slowly accumu¬
lates, it may remove some of the salient features of
what are now called the teachings of Spiritualism, or
may cause them to be considerably modified, but in the
mean time speculative Spiritualism is doing good by
promoting free-thought, and by giving men at all
events better and brighter ideas than they had before
of heaven and immortality.
THE MORAL RESPONSIBILITY OE PHYSICAL
MEDIUMS.
Experience teaches that physical mediumship has
nothing to do with the moral character of the individual,
and that such mediums may be either very good or very
bad, or neither the one nor the other. A medium is
considered to be a good one if the departed friends of
individual sitters can come back through him and
give evidence of their personal identity ; a sensitive of
this kind is usually easily controlled; he very often
goes into trances, and even in the middle of ordinary
conversation is sometimes made to utter sentences
unexpectedly to himself, and over which he has no
command. He is also sometimes suddenly made to
commit actions quite as involuntarily. The sitter is
delighted if a departed friend of his own proves his
identity through such a mediVim, yet that friend, who
for a few minutes had possession of the sensitive, may
have been nearly an angel of light, or may have been
the greatest villain that ever drew breath. In either
case the spirit was drawn there by association and by
the surroundings of the medium. Considering that
during a portion of their lives these exceptionally sensi¬
tive mediums are thus controlled, often while insen¬
sible, so as not to be responsible for their actions, the
grave question arises, to what extent they are respon¬
sible for their deeds, when not at seances, and not
generally supposed to be under spiritual control.
During long years of experience with physical mediums,
we can testify that some of the lowest of them, whose
misdeeds were notorious, were capable at other times
of generous impulses and noble acts. If thfin Spirit¬
ualists permit such sensitives to fight with the world
and all the evils in it, and permit them to be surrounded
at public circles by the lowest influences in the shape
of suspicious and incredulous people, who, without just
cause look upon the media as impostors, and bring an
abundance of evil influences about them, are Spiritualists
or are the sensitives themselves most to blame, when, as
mediums they do wrong ?
There is abundant evidence for those who will seek for
it, that professional physical mediumship is a' bad thing
for the mediums, bad for the development of the mani¬
festations, and a straining of the gift to purposes to
Jan. 1, 1875.
which it is contrary to its nature that it should be
applied. Spiritualism may almos|; be defined as “The
Science of the Affections.” Powerful mediums are
invariably impulsive and passionate people, so they
should be furnished with the very best surroundings.
When the nature of mediumship is more generally
understood, the probability is that all will agree that
Spiritualists only should have access to the higher
manifestations and to the beSt mediums, and that in¬
quirers should be made to begin with ordinary mani¬
festations, Such as table movements or raps, or should
form circles in their own homes^ which is the best plan,
of all. In the higher physical manifestations, such,
for instance, as the materialisations with the more
sensitive mediums, the reflex action of the spiritual
state of the sitters upon the manifestations is most
striking. Some time ago an account was published in
these pages, narrating how with a thoroughly reliable
medium who had passed through the severest tests, a
cut and sewed string vitiated a test at a seance at which
one of the spectators had been passing his time in
making sarcastic remarks. The particulars were'
bravely published by the desire of the medium herself,
who wanted nothing but the truth. Since that time,
at various seances, with different mediums, where there
has been inharmony in the circle, we have seen similar
suspicious results to result from strong inharmony in
the circle, so as to demonstrate that these things take
place either in acpordance with natural law, or in ac¬
cordance with regularly organised plans on the part of
the working spirits. When the news reached England
that Mr. Robert D. Owen and others had fitted up an
absolutely test cabinet for two powerful but untrust¬
worthy mediums, we knew perfectly well that he would
get something very suspicious, not because of the
new cabinet, not necessarily because of the untrust¬
worthiness of the mediums, but because the spiritual
harmony of the circle was broken up by strong ele¬
ments of distrust, and the total absence of real spiritual
unity among the sitters. If Mr. Robert D. Owen will
imitate in America the excellent plan inaugurated by
Mr. C. Blackburn in England, of saving a thoroughly
reliable materialisation medium from the influence of
the outside public, he will find, while regularly observing
the phenomena at home, that if he occasionally intro¬
duces an unquestionably bad influence into the circle, such
as a man who takes it for granted beforehand that he
and his medium are no better than they ought to be,
the most villainous apparent instances of deception will
be given by genuine spiritual manifestations, and the
bad influences will hang about the medium during
several seances after the cause of the evil has been
removed, and better surroundings substituted. Eor all
these reasons our opinion is that Mr. Robert D. Owen
has been rather premature in distrusting that common
sense which he exercised for some months, in respect to
the Katie King manifestations; for, granting the un¬
fortunate unreliability of the mediums, his examination
of the cabinet they then had, and his long experience
in observing the mediums and the manifestations,
probably caused him to draw right conclusions, and the
article printed in . another column would possibly not
have been written by him, had he had more experience
as to the nature of unspiritual inharmonious circles,
upon spiritual manifestations.
Mr. J. T. Marklet has appeared as a public lecturer in
Peterborough.
Jan. 1, 1875.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
3
THE PHILADELPHIA EVIDENCE EOR .SPIRIT
MATERIAEISATION.
BY THE HON. BOBEKT DALE OWEN.
He ably fifteen years have elapsed since the publi¬
cation of my first work on Spiritualism, Footfalls on
the Boundary of Another World. In that time, out of
more than fifty narratives contained in the volume,
the authenticity of one only has been questioned,
namely, of that entitled, “ How a Livonian School¬
teacher lost her Situation.” (^oof/aZ^Sjearly editions only,
p. 348.) In the English edition and in all the editions
of the work that were published here after September,
1860, thatstoryisreplacedhyanother,<£ The two Sisters,”
which I may state (since both the ladies from whom I
obtained it are now, alas! lost to the world by death)
was related to me by my friends Alice and Phoebe
Cary. (Footfalls, p. 348 ; but the paging corresponds
to that in the American, not in the English edition,
which last is not at this moment within my reach.)
The reasons for the omission of the Livonian narrative
I gave in a footnote, thus:—
“ A friend of one of the parties concerned, having
made inquiries regarding this story, kindly furnished
me with the result; and the evidence thus adduced
tended to invalidate essential portions of it. A recent
visit to Europe enabled me to make further inquiries;
and though, in some respects, these were confirmatory,
yet I learned that a considerable portion of the narrative
in question which had been represented to me as
directly attested, was in reality sustained only by
second-hand evidence. This circumstance, taken in
connection with the conflicting statements above
referred to, places the story outside the rule of authen¬
tication to which, in these pages, I have sought
scrupulously to conform.” (Footfalls, p. 345.)
In the Debatable Land, containing a still greater
variety of narratives, I was more fortunate: during the
lapse of three years since its publication, not one of its
relations of fact has been impugned.
But, not being prone to suspect my fellow-creatures,
I have ever found it necessary, in order to escape error
or imposition, to follow out very strict rules of evidence.
Better to omit a dozen narratives that may be
authentic than to admit one of apocryphal character.
Thus judging, I deem it my. duty to say that, in
following up, this autumn, a supplement to the ob¬
servations in materialisation which I made during last
June and July, in this city, I have come upon un¬
satisfactory results. Various suspicious circumstances
have presented themselves within the last few weeks,
including what I and other habitual frequenters of the
sittings judge to be a direct attempt to deceive. These
do not, it is true, afford proof that all preceding mani¬
festations from the same source are untrustworthy
(seeing that there are many examples in which
mediums, when their powers fail, supplement the
genuine with the spurious); but, under the old ex pede
Herculem rule, they do throw a doubt over the whole.
If, therefore, I live to write another work on Spirit¬
ualism, I propose to exclude from its pages all record
of the observations in question; as being, like the
Livonian story, outside my “ rule of authentication.”
Eor similar reasons I telegraphed to the editor of the
Atlantic Monthly, on the 4th of this month, a request
that he would withhold the relation of last summer’s
observations which I had contributed, at his sugges¬
tion, for the January number—a request which
arrived, unfortunately, too late.
That, under these circumstances, my characer, not
as regards good faith, but as a shrewd investigator,
should suffer, is natural and just. Yet perhaps it
ought, on the other hand, to be borne in mind that
there is nothing genuine, not even religion itself, that
cannot be simulated; and that the presidents and
directors of some of our best banks have occasionally
accepted, as their own, notes that had been struck off
in the secret workshop of some skilful counterfeiter.
While I regret that observations, which I had hoped
would prove a valuable contribution toward a most
important inquiry, have to be dropped, as insufficiently
authenticated, I am glad to know that, in this matter,
other observers have been more fortunate than I. Mr.
Crookes had advantages which we had not. He ex¬
perimented with a non-professional medium of un¬
blemished character, and many of his observations were
made in the privacy of his own dwelling, time and
place, and all surroundings, being entirely under his
control. Then Colonel Olcott, as the Nhw York Daily
Graphic has been informing us week after week, has
had an experience infinitely more varied than mine;
not three or four, but three or four hundred figures
having presented themselves to his observation. Thus,
omitting the Philadelphia seances, there is a vast
balance of evidence during this year, going to establish
the reality of spirit materialisation. And, so that the
cause of truth is advanced, it matters not who best
aids to bring about its advancement.
It is proper I should add, in conclusion, that, so
far as I know or believe, no one who has ever attended
the Philadelphia seances has aided, directly or indirectly,
in any deception or concealment, or is responsible
(except it be by having granted undue confidence) for
the results, be they what they may.
Before taking action in this matter, I stated, in
plain terms, to the parties concerned, that I had with¬
drawn all confidence from them, giving them some of
the reasons, founded, not on report, but oh personal
observation, why I had done so. I also reminded them
that they had persistently declined or neglected to act
upon my suggestion, that they should set the cabinet
on castors, so that it could be moved to any part of the
room which the audience might select. I added that
by so doing, and by giving up the dark circle, and
allowing free examination of the cabinet, both before
and after the sitting, it was still open to them, if all
was right, to vindicate their honest dealing to the
public. And I concluded by telling them that if they
succeeded in such vindication, no one living would
rejoice more sincerely than I.
Robert Dale Owen.
Philadelphia, Dec. 10th, 1874.
LECTURES AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S.
THE LATE HE. J. W. JACKSON.
On Wednesday, last week, Mrs. Jackson, widow of the late
Mr. J. W. Jackson, the well-known psychologist and anthro¬
pologist of Glasgow, delivered the last of a series of three lec¬
tures at the residence of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-
street, Grosvenor-square, London, who had kindly lent her
drawing-room for the purpose. Among the listeners who
attended during the delivery of the series, were Lady Yere
Cameron, of Lochiel: Prince Albert of Solms-Braunfels; Sir
William Fairfax, Bart., of Maxton, with his sister, Mrs. Gre¬
gory ; Miss Douglas; Mrs. Wiseman; Mr» Mayne; Lady X. ;
Mrs. O’Sullivan; Miss Inglis, of Red Hall; Miss Napean; Mr.
G. Sutherland ; Mr. G. Fraser; Mr. Mc’Donnell, late of
Dublin; Mr. W. H. Harrison; and the gentleman through whom
the Spirit Teachings, occasionally published in The Spiritualist.
are given.
4
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1875.
These lectures have a special interest, in consequence of
their being given by the widow of the late Mr. J. W. Jackson,
who devoted nearly all his life to the furtherance of mesmerism
and anthropology, and who, shortly before he departed this
life, became a convert to the truths of Spiritualism. During
his career, he lectured on mesmeric subjects in various parts
of the United Kingdom, generally in Scotland and Ireland,
and his conversion to Spiritualism was first effected in conse¬
quence of seeing the hand of his wife—by whom he knew he
was not deceived—write out automatically, “ You are to go
south.” This was the first message he ever received through
writing mediumship. During his residence in Glasgow he
brought out his book on Ethnology and Phrenology; also
another on Man, considered Intellectually, Morally, Physically,
and Spiritually. He contributed for many years his Sands of
Thought to The Glasgow Christian News, and he founded and
brought into notice the Curative Mesmeric Association of
Glasgow, which had a vigorous existence for ten years, and is,
it is believed, still living. In earlier times, he founded a mes¬
meric institution in Edinburgh, in which city he taught and
laboured for ten years out of the thirty which he devoted to
the dissemination of unpopular truths. The valuable series
of papers which he contributed to, the Anthropological In¬
stitute of Great Britain and Ireland, was written during the
ten years of his life which he spent in Glasgow.
The titles of the three lectures delivered by Mrs. Jackson
were, Wit and Humour, Sympathy, and The Inspiration of Men
of Genius, and Mrs. Jackson is now prepared to. accept
engagements to deliver them to local societies and public
audiences.
MATERIALISED SPIRIT FORMS.
BY BENJAMIN COLEMAN. ,
Mr. Robert Dale Owen, whose high, social position
and well-known contributions to Spiritual literature
give him a foremost place in our ranks, has declared
his perfect conviction of the genuineness of the pheno¬
mena of materialised spirit forms, and he has raised
the question, I see, of “ whether the two Katie Kings
are one and the same.”
Mr. Owen, in the article published in your journal
last week, gives his reasons why he thinks they are,
and I desire to record my reasons why I think they
are not. The main reason I have for my conviction is
conveyed in a letter I addressed in August last to Dr.
Child, of Philadelphia, who had been good enough to
send me a photograph of the spirit form which presents
itself through Mrs. Holmes’ mediumship. Upon the
hack it is printed, " She declares that she is the same
Katie King that has appeared in London in the pre¬
sence of Miss Cook and others, and that she has given
to Professor Crookes many opportunities of testing her
powers as a spirit,” &c.
After warning Dr. Childs that though Mrs. Holmes was
no doubt a medium with considerable powers, neither
she nor her husband were to be trusted, they were of
that class whose conduct brought disgrace upon the
movement, I wrote:—
I send you a photograph of the Katie King as she appeared
in London, and you will see at once that it is so unlike the
other that they cannot represent one and the same individual.
I have just read Mr. Owen’s account, which is highly in¬
teresting, but that he who had seen both photographs* should
think the likeness in the least degree alike, or that any ex¬
perienced Spiritualist should pay the least regard to the his¬
tory which your- Katie gives of her early life, very much
surprises me.
The statements made by the two spirits do not agree any
more than their likenesses ; and it is in my opinion folly to
regard the general statements of any spirit as to time, place,
or identityl We have evidently much more to learn about
them and their extraordinary powers. Meantime, the great
fact is proved beyond doubt that spirits can make and unmake
* He possibly might not at that time, but of course he has since seen the
English production, and long prior to the paper of his published in this
journal on the 18th of December last.
material bodies to satisfy our senses, and that they can drive
material substances through all obstructions is also one of the
great facts we are called upon to witness in these days; with
what ulterior object I for one am not prepared to say.
Though Mr. Owen and I differ on those points which
I have named, it is satisfactory to know that we entirely
agree as to the fact that spirit forms, as real and life¬
like to all appearance as ordinary mortals, do present
themselves. At present, as far as I know, there are
but four or five mediums who obtain these remarkable
manifestations in England, and about the same number
in America.
Among the latter arejthe Eddy Brothers, young men
who are as well known in America as were the Daven¬
ports in England. After travelling in the principal
cities, where they met with the usual bad treatment to
which most mediums are subjected, they retired from
the excitement of the life they were leading, and settled
down as small farmers at Chittenden, in the State of
Vermont, where, however, they soon attracted atten¬
tion from their neighbours, who had witnessed things
in open day too extraordinary to pass unnoticed. Public
curiosity was awakened ; the brothers soon found they
could not continue their quiet farming pursuits, and
they were perforce obliged to yield to the overwhelming
pressure put upon them by their spirit guides. Their
small homestead, with no accommodation for visitors,
has become crowded by strangers from distant parts of
the country, who are there witnessing phenomena far
more extraordinary than have yet been heard of in any
country.
Colonel Hy. S. Olcott, of New York, whose name is
not known to me in connection with Spiritualism, but
who, I am told, is a man of high character, possessing
considerable literary ability and great influence with
the press of his own country, has recently been induced
to examine Spiritualism in its phenomenal aspect, and
especially that which is obtained by the Eddy family;
after weeks of patient investigation at Chittenden
he is convinced of the genuineness of the spirit forms
which are there presented, and for some time past he
has contributed a series of articles to the New York
daily Graphic, giving “ a narrative of spiritual things
seen, heard, and felt at the Eddy homestead in Ver¬
mont the Graphic has given whole pages to this
account, and has illustrated it with many woodcuts.
It appears' that Colonel Olcott met at Chittenden a
highly intelligent Russian lady, the Countess Helen
P. de BJavatsky, who showed to him various credentials
of her social position, including letters from Prince
Wittgenstein. “ This lady,” he says, “ has led a most
eventful life, travelling in most of the lands of the
Orient, searching for antiquities at the base of the
pyramids, and pushing, with an armed escort, far into
the interior of Africa.” The Countess’s presence at
several of the Eddy seances led to most surprising
manifestations, including the appearance of several
spirits of persons known to her in foreign countries.
Colonel Olcott takes great pains to meet all scepticism,
and after he had satisfied himself of this lady’s status,
and her knowledge of foreign languages, and the im¬
possibility of her being capable of entering into a
vulgar conspiracy to deceive him, he proceeds to give a
narrative of what occurred at their first seance
together :—
Honto, as if to give the amplest opportunity for the artist
and myself to test the correctness of the theory of “ persona¬
tion,” that the ” investigator ” previously alluded to had ex¬
pounded to us, stood at the right of the cabinet motioning us
Jan. 1, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
5
to observe her height, her feet, the head trimming on her
dress ; and then she unplaited her hair and shook it out over her
shoulders. “ Santum,” “ Wando,” and “ Wasso ” came too,
and then followed the first of the Countess’s spirit visitors.
He was a person of middle height, well shaped, dressed in a
Georgian (Caucasian) jacket with loose sleeves, and long-
pointed over-sleeves, an outer long coat, baggy trousers,
leggings pf yellow leather, and white skull-cap or fez with tassel.
She recognised him at once as Michalka, late of Kontais,
Georgia, a favourite servant of her sister’s, and whose em¬
ployment was to carry about and tend that lady’s little boy.
He was followed by the spirit of Abraham Alsbach, who spoke
some sentences in German to his sister who was present, and
he in turn by M. Zepheun Boudreau, late of Canada, the father
of the lady who accompanied Madame de Blavatsky, and it
was this lady’s first seance. She addressed her questions to
him in French, and he replied by rapping his hands against
the door frame, except once, when he uttered the word “|Owi.”
This figure stood so that I saw him in profile against the
wall. He had an aquiline nose, rather hollow cheeks, prominent
high cheek-bones, and an iron-grey beard. It was a marked
face, in short, of the pure Gallic type. . . Among other things
that occurred was the writing of Madame de Blavatsky’s name
on a card by a spirit hand, in Russian script. Various detached
hands were shown through the aperture, and among the number
that of the servant Michalka, which the Countess recognised by
some peculiarity as well as by a string of amber beads wound
round the wristc Becollect that she. had only arrived that
afternoon, had barely become acquainted with the medium,
had had no conversation whatever with anybody about her
former life, and then say how this Vermont farmer could have
known (1) of the existence of Michalka; (2) that he had any
relations of any kind with his visitor ; (3) that it is a custom
among the Georgian peasants to wear a string of amber beads
upon their arms, and the sceptic will have to account for the
possession of so unusual a thing as this kind of rosary by any
member of a family working a green mountain farm in
Vermont.
This is but a small portion of Colonel Olcott’s most
interesting narrative, ■which is entirely too long for the
pages of The Spiritualist.
I have just received a most interesting letter from
my friend Mr. Epes Sargent, of Boston, a man who, as
your readers know, holds a distinguished position in
the literary world, and whose new work, The Proof
Palpable of Immortality, he informs me, is just about
to be issued from the press.
In this letter he says :—
Since I wrote to you last the progress made by Spiritualism
in this country has been truly astonishing. Some of our
principal daily papers are venturing to give full reports of
seances for the materialisation phenomena. Spiritualism is
no longer treated with derision by the more intelligent of our
editors. Full and interesting reports of the manifestations
through the Eddy family, at Vermont, written by Colonel
Henry S. Olcott, have appeared twice a week for some ten
weeks past in the Daily Graphic, with pictorial illustrations.
. . . The New York Times, New York Sun, Chicago Times, St.
Louis Democrat, Springfield (Massachusetts) Republican, Hart¬
ford Courant, all journals of large influence and circulation,
have brought the subject prominently before the public, and
the end is not yet. Three of our leading monthly magazines,
the Atlantic Monthly, the Galaxy, and Lippincott's Magazine,
have had long and mostly fair papers on the subject, and the
Atlantic Monthly for January promises an account from Mr.
Dale Owen of the Philadelphia- materialisations. . . . These
materialisations are creating an impression of which we have
not yet begun to see the effects. People are no longer going
to be satisfied with the sneers and denunciations, the evasions
and misrepresentations of scientific pretenders. The day has
gone by when the subject could be dismissed by calling Spirit¬
ualists simpletons and fools, or the Victims of a hallucination.
. . . Yesterday I got a letter from a respectable physician of
St. Louis, Dr. Henry S. Chase, enclosing a cutting from the
St. Louis Democrat of Nov. 16, it being a published letter
from the Rev. Isaac Kelso, of Seton, Illinois, giving an
account of some very remarkable phenomena, through a new
medium, a Mr. Mott, of Memphis, Tennessee. The conditions
were such as to preclude all suspicions of fraud. A material¬
ised spirit, apparently a young man of about 18, presented
himself, and said he had committed suicide by drowning him¬
self in the Mississippi, that his name was James Walker, that
his parents were much distressed, and he wished Mr. Kelso
would send for his mother. Mr. Kelso, knowing nothing as to
the truth of the story, wrote to St. Louis, and soon the mother
came on,,identified him, and was having daily interviews of
great interest at the date of Dr. Chase’s letter to me. He
writes: “ Mr. Kelso is a friend of mine. I am well ac¬
quainted with all the parties he refers to. Dr. Geo. S.
Walker of this city is the father of the young man.
Mr. Mott is evidently a wonderful materialising medium;
his child, four years old, gets writing on a double slate, screwed
down &c., &c Tell Mr. Alfred Wallace his pamphlet has
done much to commend Spiritualism to the better class of
minds in this country, and the phenomena which are now
crowding upon us are fast corroborating all that he bears
testimony to. May he live to speak many more such timely
words in behalf of the great truth.” .... You may form some
idea from what I have said, of the great strides Spiritualism is
making here. There has been nothing like it since the
breaking out of the phenomena at Hydesville, more than a
quarter of a century ago.
These American facts, coupled with our own, should
have an important hearing in correcting the errors of
both science and theology.
THE MEMUMSHIP OF THE EDDY BROTHERS,
Me. T. Wilks, late president of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, has received a letter from Mr. H.
Clinker, formerly one of the members of that society, who is
now in the United States, and has been to see the manifesta¬
tions which take place at Chittenden, Vermont, in the
presence of the Eddy brothers. Mr. Clinker writes:—
Spirits’ Home, Chittenden, Vermont,
Saturday, Oct. 30th, 1874.
Mv dear friend Wilks,—Here I am up among the moun¬
tains at the home of the Eddy Brothers, the place where
spirits are wont to congregate; yes, it is a place of real
wonders. I have been here but two or three days, and if I
tried to tell you all I have seen and heard I suppose I could
fill half a quire of paper. I will tell you just what I haye
witnessed with my ovm eyes. In regard to this wonderful
family, if you have carefully read the papers I have sent you,
you will know almost as much about them as I do. I must
hot, however, forget to tell you that they are visited by
distinguished and other persons, many of them from all
parts of our country. I consider them the most wonderful
mediums in the world. They are quiet, unassuming, unpre¬
tending ; they dress like ordinary workmen, they do almost
all the work of the house and farm. William, the greatest
medium of the two, does all the. washing.
Soon after the supper (tea as you would call it) is over he
walks into the circle room, takes his seat in the cabinet—or
rather little cupboard—nothing more nor less. You wait
patiently or impatiently as the case may be, for a little while,
and out come the spirits one after the other in pretty quick
succession.
Well, now I will give you an account of just what I saw the
first evening, and that will pretty well suffice for the rest of
the day. We took our seats, and all on the front seat were
requested to join hands. A dead and almost breathless
silence prevailed. In a few minutes there appeared the spirit
of an aged woman, the mother of a person I am well acquainted
with, and who was called to take her seat near the spirit. They
joined hands, and there, before the entire assembly, mother
and child stood before each other, face to face ; they exchanged
words and embraced each other, and then followed those
blessed words, “ Mother 1 Mother! My dear mother! ” The
tears started involuntarily from my eyes. This was the first
time I had beheld a materialised' spirit. The scene, as you
can well imagine, was most affecting. The spirit mother
whispered a few words in the ears of her child, and then
passed from our sight. I ought to have told you that not only
was this lady requested to go forward, but also her brother,
the son of the spirit mother, also her grandchild. Again a
deathlike stillness prevailed, and then appeared a spirit son
of the lady. He also conversed with his mother and dis¬
appeared, and was quickly followed by another son of the
same lady, from the spirit world. I would just add here,
to save reference to this lady again, that last night
6
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1875r
her mother and two sons appeared again, also her husband,
who is in the spirit world.
After the sons had disappeared there came the daughter of
a gentleman present; they exchanged but a few words, the
father saying, “ God bless you my child, how I long to be
with you! ” And then appeared a sweet little spirit (an
Indian) called Sunbeam. What a sweet spirit she was to be-
sure, and how sweetly she talked. After her disappearance'
a tall Indian spirit came out, and so on, making in all nine or
ten spirits in about one hour and a half.
This seance was followed by what is called the light seance,
which was very interesting indeed, such as playing of music,
ringing of bells, stroking of faces, and other strange demon¬
strations. I saw a little boy to-day whoWas floated through
the air by the spirits. A man here was taken, as I am informed,
from the Eddy house, and floated through the air a distance
of about 250 feet; they did intend to carry him to the grave¬
yard belonging to the Eddy family, to punish him for wrong¬
doing, but they failed on account of the conditions not being
favourable, so they dropped him before they reached the spot.
(He is terribly afraid of graveyards now, and was so before this
attempt, and the spirits knew it.) One of the Eddy brothers,
Horatio, was floated and placed upon the large old-fashioned
chimney-pot. Well, I won’t bother you with any more of
these things. Omens, spirits, ghosts, phantom horses and
carriages, &c., are of common occurrence out here. The spirit
horse came along last night, and the dogs barked fearfully.
You will read about all these things in the papers, and I shall
continue to send them you as the letters are published from
week to week. Soon, I expect, the whole affair will be pub¬
lished in book form. You see that it is a very common occur¬
rence for friends to meet their dear departed ones out here.
I am enjoying very good health, thank God. My kind love to
you both. May God bless and keep you both, is the prayer
of your sincere friend, H. T. Clinker.
A HAUNTED HOUSE IN ANCIENT ATHENS.
, BY ST. GEORGE W. STOCK, B.A. (OXON).
It may, perhaps, interest your readers to be reminded
how the ghost question was regarded by Pliny the
Younger, the most elegant writer under the Roman
Empire, and the intimate friend of the historian
Tacitus, the'deepest man of his day. The latter shall,
with your permission, be himself put in the witness-
box in another number. Meanwhile, here is a letter-
from Pliny to his friend Sara :—
Our present leisure affords you an opportunity of giving
instruction, and me of receiving it. So I would very much
like to learn whether you think there are such things as
ghosts, with form and will of their own, or whether you regard
them as mere delusions shaped by our fears. For my own
part, I am led to believe in their existence chiefly from a thing
which I hear occurred to Curtius Eufus. While still in an
humble and obscure position, he had attached himself to the
governor of Africa. One afternoon he was strolling in the
verandah, when he was confronted by the form of a woman, of
more than mortal height and beauty, which greatly alarmed
him. The phantom declared—“ She was Africa, and was
there to announce the future. He would go to Eome and bear
office, and would even return with the supreme command to the
same province, and there die.” All was fulfilled. Further, on
his approach to Carthage, when disembarking, the same figure
is related to have met him on the shore. At all events,
he fell ill, and conjecturing the future from the past,
adversity from prosperity, abandoned hope of recovery, though
his friends saw no reason to despair.
What think you now of the following story ? Has it not
more of the frightful about it, and no less of the miraculous ?
I will tell it just as it was told to me.
There was a large and roomy house at Athens, but one that
had a bad name, and proved fatal to indwellers. In the dead
of night, a sound like the grating of iron, or, to a more atten¬
tive ear, the clank of chains, used to echo through it, first
from a distance, then from quite close at hand. Presently a
spectral old man used to present himself, lean and squalid,
with long beard and shaggy hair, wearing shackles on his legs,
and fetters on his hands, which he kept shaking. This occa¬
sioned nights of distress and horror to the inmates, whose
sleep was banished by fear, and the result was illness; and,
as the illness grew to its height, death. For by day,
too, though the, phantom had departed, its image, would
remain impressed on the eyes, and apprehension stayed when
its cause was gone. The house was therefcfte quitted,' and
abandoned to desolation, its unearthly occupant being allowed
sole possession. Still an advertisement was kept" up, in case
any one, unaware of the serious'drawback, might wish to
purchase or . rent it. - Then a philosopher named Atheno-
dorus came to- Athens, and read the bill. On hearing the
price,, the cheapness raised his suspicions, and-, on making
inquiries he was told the story, which only rendered him more
than ever anxious to hire the house. As evening closed
in, he ordered a. bed to be made up for himself in a front
room, and called for writing materials and a light; then dis¬
missed his attendants into the interior, apjl applied himself,
mind, eye, and hand, to the task of writing, that his brain
might not be left free to conjure up the apparitions he had
been told of, and torment him with idle fears. At first
silence reigned supreme about him,'as it did everywhere else.
Then there was a clash of iron and shuffling of chains. So
far, however, from lifting his eyes, or laying aside his pen,
he redoubled attention to his work, and, stopped his ears. The
noise increased, and advanced nearer, until it seemed first at
the door, and then in the chamber, i He turned his bead and
saw a figure, which he recognised" as the one described to him.
It w,as standing beckoning with its finger, as if summoning
him. He answered by a wave of the hand to wait a little, and
resumed his writing. It proceeded to rattle the chains
over his head. Then, looking behind him again, and
seeing it signalling as before, without further delay, he
took up the candle, and followed it. The ghost walked slowly,
as if encumbered by its chains: but after turning into the
courtyard, it vanished suddenly, and left his companion alone.
Finding himself thusi he plucked some- grass and leaves, and
marked the spot. The next day," he went before the magis¬
trates, and advised them to order the place to be dug up. A
skeleton was found entangled in. a mass of chains, the
body itself, from lying long in the ground, having rotted
away, and left the bones, bare and mouldered, in the fetters.
These were collected, and publicly buried ; and, the ghost
having been duly laid, the house was haunted no more.
The above story I take op authority. The following I can
vouch for to other people.
I have a freedman, Marcus, not at all an illiterate person.
He and a younger brother were sleeping together in the same
bed. The latter had the impression that’ he saw some one sit¬
ting on the couch, applying a pair of scissors to his head, and
actually cutting the hair round his crown. At dawn, the boy
was found with his crown shorn, and the locks were lying on
the ground about him. After a short interval, a similar
occurrence corroborated the former one. A boy was sleeping
in the pages’ hall among several others. Two persons (so he
declares) in white garments, came in through the windows,
and clipped his hair as he lay in bed, then departed the way
they had come. He too at morning was discovered shorn, with
the locks scattered about him. Nothing noticeable ensued,
except, perhaps, my not being brought to trial, as I certainly
would have been, had Domitian, in whose reign these incidents
occurred, lived longer, for a paper about me was found in
his desk, sent in by Carus. From this, one may hazard the
guess that, as it is the custom of accused persons to let their
hair grow, the clipping of my attendant’s locks symbolised the
aversion of the danger.
I pray you, bring your learning to bear on the matter. The
subject is one that deserves your long and deep consideration;
nor am I quite unworthy to receive the benefit of your know¬
ledge. You may even argue both sides of the question, as
your custom is: only lay the stress on one or the other, not to
send me away in doubt and perplexity, when my reason for
applying to you has been to rid myself of doubt. Farewell.
St. George Stock.
The National Association Monthly Soirees.—The
soiree projected for this month has been postponed till early
in February, since two are coming off within the next three
weeks for the benefit of local societies. The first of the
monthly National Association soirees will be held in the
Cavendish Eooms ; it will be preceded by tea. which will no
longer be supplied by contract, but by some of the members,
so considerable improvement in quality over the last one may
be expected. Music and other attractions will be provided,
and the honorary secretaries to the Association will be glad to
hear from friends who are willing to lend spirit drawings,
paintings, photographs, and other objects of interest.
7
Jan. 1, 1875. THE, SPIRITUALIST.
• SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON. '
L^st Sunday week the quarterly meeting of East London
Spiritualists was held at Mr. Oogman’s Rooms,- iS^St. Peter’s-
road, Mile-end, E., under the presidency of Mr. Allen. i There
was a good, attendance. A short notice of this meeting was
published in last week’s ^Spiritualist, but we here give par¬
ticulars more at length.
The Chairman announced that it was intended to hoM a
soiree to aid Mr. Cogman in his work. *It would probably
take place about the 12th of January, if they could get a room
suitable for the purpose about that time. Some amounts had
been subscribed which would about cover the expenses, but
they desired the aid of friends who could give readings, sing,
or otherwise take part in the entertainment.
Mr. Barnett made a few remarks to the same effect.
Miss Young was then entranced, and uttered the following
inspirational prayer:—0 Thou Heavenly Spirit, Thou who art
ever present in full power, where harmony and love together
dwell, Thou whom we call Father and God because Thou art
good and holy, Thy works praise Thee, 0 our Maker! Thou
hast implanted in each earthly tabernacle a spirit of love
which shall live beyond this plane of existence. May that
spirit incline to wisdom, and to know more of Thee, 0 Father,
and of Thy loving works.’ May Thy ministering spirits in
this winter time of earthly existence come to us from their
summer home, and may these meetings be instrumental in
promulgating this lovely truth ; may they be gatherings par¬
taking more of heaven than of earth.
After a pause the entrancedjMiss Young continued:—Friends,
%we are glad to greet you and to meet you from our home of light;
to bring you things from the land of immortality; to teach you
of things beyond the ken of man. Man in his present condi¬
tion, knows little of spiritual truth which is obscured by creeds
and dogmas. We arp spirits, we have lived in mortal bodies
like yourselves, and passed on to that land whence we now
return. We surroupd you like an army utterly innumerable;
we are walking to and fro on the earth, some in sorrow, some
with messages of peace and joy. You will all have a work to do.
The spirit world is blending with yours. Our sayings, you
say differ; so do the flowers of-the field, and so do the ripples
of the stream, yet the waters flo^w from one source. Spiritual¬
ism tells you to cast away prejudice, and to wait patiently for
what we can bring you from the othef side. We bring you
flowers. We bring you flowers of the spirit, and we tell you that
every good action is a stone in the tabernacle which you will
have to inhabit hereafter. We cannot, it is true, bring to your
imaginations the real nature of the spirit home, nor give
, you tangible ideas what it is like, but it is fair and beautiful.
Thbre, we commune face to face, thought to thought. Your
earthly teachers tell you that heaven is shut up, that God
Almighty dwells therein, and that some of you shall be parted
from your brethren and burnt; such teachings are of the
earth and not of the spirit; they are not the teachings of
those who have passed to spirit-life before you. Our mission
is peace. We come to minister to each and all of you, for all
are the children of God, children of the same Father. There
are things which are dark in Spiritualism a§ well as things
which are bright, but you should taste before eating, and
select only that which is good.
Mr. Parsons said he had jattended Mr. Cogman’s meetings
ever since they had begun, two and a half years ago, and had
derived from them benefits which he did not think he should
ever be able to repay. He had attended the developing circle,
and had seen several instances of obsession. Once a medium
was thrown about the room, and his life was threatened by
the controlling spirit; but such spirits always left when Mr.
Cogman put his hand on the head of the medium, after which
better influences came. Partially developed mediums had
been finished off there to their own satisfaction. One day he
brought a young man there who insulted Mr. Cogman, ridi¬
culed the manifestations, and called on the spirit to show
himself. After he returned home he was taken out of his
chair and thrown on to the bed, and then, in opposing the
influence in the attempt to get rid of it, he was obliged to
come back to Mr. Oogman and to ask him to take the power
away. He was then thrown down several times, and he (Mr. «
Parsons) had much trouble in getting him home, for he
walked like a drunken man. His friends at home said that
it was his Satanic Majesty; but the Satan who had got hold
of him made him go down on his knees and pray for hours,
although he said he had never prayed in his life before, not¬
withstanding that his wife was a teacher in Mr. Brown’s
Tabernacle, of which her husband also was a member ; how¬
ever, he did not follow the matter up. On another occasion
he brought two friends to the meeting, whose deceased friends
were described so correctly by Mr. Cog'man that they had
been . Spiritualists ever since, and now live in the Isle of
Wight, where they are doing missionary work. Once he
brought a member of the “ Hallelujah Band ” to Mr. Cog-
man’s, and the man had since been gradually converted to
Spiritualism. Last Tuesday, at about four o’clock, the man’s
wife sent a boy to the cupboard, and he said, “ Oh, mother!
ain’t it a lark? Here’s the table coming!” The table was
running along with a lot of books on it, then it tilted and
upset the books, and returned to its place. Afterwards there
was a whistling noise, and all the books were back in their
places on top of the table. Then a chair came into the
middle' of the roonu and spun round on one leg for about five
minutes, after whicm it walked back again. Later in the day
she heard a rustling noise behind her, and bn looking round
she saw the broom, upside down, walking along the room.
A chair, with her husband’s trousers on it, spun round, and
sent the trousers flying. The doors banged, chairs slid,
and the children wanted to know what it was, so she told
themitwas “the angels” (Laughter) “come to teach them good
things.” She said this in order not to frighten them.
Miss M. H. Eager passed into the trance state, and said,—
0 Thou whom all men worship and praise ; the rippling
waters and the bubbling streams send forth sounds of praise
to Thee. All.nature joins with one accord ; whether it be in
the lonely valley, or on the mountain top, all things concur in
praise of Thee. Let us feel Thy power. Let us feel Thy loving
sympathy, and assure us that Thou art ever near us, in what¬
ever work we may be engaged. [She then began to speak in an
unknown tongue.]
Mrs. Bradley was next entranced, and controlled by a lively
spirit, who answered with considerable sharpness] some
questions which were put by medical students.
Mrs. Gender was next entranced, and’influenced to make
some mesmeric passes over the neck of a listener, who was suf-
ering from a sore throat.’
Mr. Bullock said that he had been brought up in the
orthodox church ; that raps came upon the table in his house,
and he and his wife did not’ know what they meant. Then
they learned a little about Spiritualism, and began to sit, and
in a very short time the manifestations threw them into a fog.
They thought Spiritualism a terrible evil, so his wife went to
Mr. Cogman on the subject, and brought home with her a
spirit guide, who threw her into an unconscious state. Before
that time the greatest pests of his house had been’doctors and
doctors’ bills, but since then, they had never been troubled
with them. The spirits cured all their diseases, yet
church people said it was all the devil. If such were the
devil’s works, all he could say was that the churches had
belied him very much, and that he was not a bad
character. He and his wife had laboured for three years,
and had made many converts to Spiritualism, but it was all
due to Mr. Cogman, since they derived their first knowledge
from him. He thought it was time there was more unity
among Spiritualists in England. Last summer he preached
Spiritualism in the open air to numbers of people, but had
never found another Spiritualist to stand by his side. Spirit¬
ualists should join together, not to see what they could afford,
but what they could sacrifice; he and his wife had simply
sacrificed all they once possessed in the cause, and he found
all the persecution received was the very thing needed to
drill them for the work. Spiritualism made amends for
everything lost in a material sense. His departed friends had
come back to him and to his children. It was no delusion,
for Spiritualists fed and lived upon facts. Organisation was
good, but committees should not overrule the spirit world;
Spiritualists should put the spirits in the front ranks and
follow them.
A gentleman rose and said he had been enquiring into
Spiritualism for a long time, but had been very sceptical until
a few days ago, when he became a writing medium, and had
been made to write in Mrs. Bullock’s presence.
Mr. Webster was then entranced, and in course of an argu¬
ment with two medical students, the controlling spirits said:
—“ You want us to prove that it is spirits. We want you to
prove that it is not. It is not fair to give us all the hard
work.”
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
After working hard for two weeks to implant Spirit¬
ualism in the important town of Dundee, Mr. William Oxley
has returned to Manchester, and Messrs, Peck and Sadler to
Cardiff,
8
THE SPIRITUALIST.
OFFICES FOR THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
The earlier this year that the National Association of
Spiritualists selects and takes possession of offices, the better
will it be for the interests of the movement; if there is much
delay it will not find itself within a home of its own until the
London season is half over. The Offices Committee is now
working up the guarantee fund, and in the meantime has
given little information about its future plans, in the matter
of attempting to make the offices self-supporting ; neither has
it yet raised any discussion as to the most suitable locality
in which to take premises, nor as to what description it is
most desirable those premises should be. After the com¬
mittee has made all these particulars known, it is not
probable the whole matter will be immediately, settled off
hand, but that time will be given to allow the members
at large and the general public an opportunity of expressing
their opinions; thus, unless care be taken, nearly another
month may elapse after the committee makes known its inten¬
tions. Yery probably if its intentions were known now,
much of the delay would be saved, for the consideration
of these points would begin at once. Moreover if the plans
were seen to be such as to make it certain that a large pro¬
portion of the guarantee fund would be covered by the returns,
it would tend to increase the sum total of the former.
As to the most desirable locality for offices, there will be
plenty of arguments for and against any site which may be
selected. Supposing the neighbourhood of Charing-cross
were chosen, because by rail and by other means of convey¬
ance, it is within easy reach of West-end and East-end
Spiritualists, and of very many who have to come to town by
rail, it might be objected that few Spiritualists live in the
immediate neighbourhood; on the other hand, that might be
considered one reason why Spiritualism should be planted
there for the instruction of those who reside near at hand ;
generally speaking, it would be a very convenient locality for
those who come to town by rail, and would like to be able to
look into a spiritual reading-room when they have an hour or
two to spare.
Should it be considered desirable that the offices should be
planted in that part of London in which the members of the
National Association are most numerous, some position be¬
tween Notting-hill and the Marble-arch, or Paddington, would
probably be the best. The committee could gain information
on this point by examining the list of addresses of members,
and marking the positions on a Post Office map. In the
neighbourhoods just mentioned Spiritualists are numerous,
but whether they consist of such persons as would be likely
to make use of the offices, supposing them to be close at
hand, is a matter for the committee to consider.
Without having any information from the committee as to
what its plans may be, it would be premature to express any
decided opinions about the description of premises which
ought to be taken. If the Association has nothing but a
series of small rooms placed at its command, the returns it
might expect would include :—(1.) Less salary to the resident
manager in consideration of apartments being allowed to him
for private use, rent free. (2.) There would be an income
from the reading-room, in which probably all the leading
magazines and periodicals of the day, as well as spiritual
periodicals from all parts of the world would be taken in and
filed for future reference. (3.) There would be further re¬
turns from the letting of rooms occasionally for committee or
other meetings, or for the purposes of a local society. All
these items added together could perhaps scarcely be ex¬
pected to cover the rent of offices and manager’s salary,
but the committee may perhaps have thought of additional
uses for such premises, of which the public have no
notion; or they may argue that if the premises offered
at such a moderate rent in the main thoroughfare of
Oxford-street should be taken, it would be worth while for the
Association to incur a moderate balance of inevitable loss, be¬
cause of the publicity it would gain by having a home in such
a well-known thoroughfare, always crowded by vehicles and
pedestrians. The committee has advertised, or is about to ad¬
vertise for a small hall with dwelling-house attached, and has
probably by this time made inquiries whether the leases of
any of the hails well known to Spiritualists are obtainable.
To take premises of this kind would necessitate a largely
increased guarantee fund, but in return the guarantors would
not be likely to have to pay much, except during the first year,
which in the natural order of things must be a bad one. In
such premises, soirees, lectures, and other public meetings
could take place, and when not wanted for the purposes of
Spiritualists, they could be let for other uses, and as there
Jan. 1, 1875.
are plenty of Spiritualists connected with other reform move¬
ments, there would probably be a considerable amount of
influence exerted to induce other organised bodies to use the
hall when not required for Spiritualistic purposes. Private
individuals make a profit by taking leases of such halls, and
letting them, so why should not the National Association?
One great use of a hall would be its application to educa¬
tional purposes. There are several scientific men connected
with the movement, who will gladly give information on scien¬
tific subjects, such, for instance, as the nature of the impon¬
derable and invisible forces which are known by physicists to
surround us on every side, and to have an all-powerful action
on the material world; or they might undertake to teach a
little about the real nature of magnetism and electricity,
of which forces a few uneducated Spiritualists here and there
write and talk so wildly. But to do these things needs the
use of most expensive apparatus, which the owners would only
care to send to a hall belonging permanently to Spiritualists,
and where, when not in use, it could be safely stowed away on
the premises. The expense, and time, and work involved in
taking apparatus to a hall, and fitting it up for use during one
evening only, renders lectures of this kind practically impos¬
sible, until permanent premises are taken. We believe from
what Mr. Yarley told us of the experimental lecture he once
contemplated delivering to a meeting of Spiritualists, that it
would have taken at least two days to fit up the necessary
apparatus.
These ideas are not thrown out dogmatically, but to elicit
opinions, and we shall be very glad to receive and to publish a
large number of suggestions upon these subjects in very short
letters, from the readers of these lines.
THE DOCTRINE OF IMMORTALITY AMONG THE
ANCIENT EGYPTIANS.
No. III.
Historical Study, by C. Constant, Smyrna ; Member of the
Asiatic Society, Paris. Addressed to the British National
Association of Spiritualists. Translated from the French
by Emily Kislingbury.
All these scenes furnish us with the concrete representation
of an idea which is eminently religious. Champollion-Figeao
says, with regard to it: “ this scene (of the judgment) places
before our eyes the most curious part of the religious belief
of the Egyptians. The hierogrammatist who composed this
singular subject'was able to embody the most metaphysical
ideas, and we see therein the evident proof that the dogma of
the immortality of the soul, and “ that of rewards and suf¬
fering in another life were the principal foundations of the
religion of the ancient Egyptians.” In short, take away the
forms, which are but symbols, what idea do we find ? The
law of progress, by justice and the labour of the individual.
Man is represented to us as a spirit gravitating eternally
towards perfection, by a series of terrestrial incarnations.
What were these successive incarnations ? Did the human
soul enter the body of an animal, or was it incarnated anew
as man ? We have every reason to believe that, according to
the Egyptians, the soul did reincarnate itself upon the earth
as man, and that the doctrine of metempsychosis was in
principle the same as the doctrine upheld by Allan Eardeo
and other philosophers of our own day.
It is true that in the judgment-scene we saw the woman
Tetchonsis sent back in the form of a sow, but we must not
take these forms literally. I have said enough on the subject
of the hieroglyphic writing to make it unnecessary to repeat
that these animal forms expressed not the being, but the
manner of being. In the same way that in this picture of the
judgment vices, virtues, and divine attributes are symbolised
by the forms of animals, so the vices and punishment of the
woman Tetchonsis are characterised by forms which set forth
those ideas.
By depicting the glutton in the form of a sow, the people
were taught plainly and objectively: you shall be punished in
the way that you have sinned ; or rather, you shall be like the
animal in whose habits you have delighted. I feel the more
confirmed in this point of view, because I have seen nowhere
in the funeral rituals, I have found nowhere, animals giving
up their souls as in the drawing published in this article. It
is always men who die, and always spirits in the form of men
who are judged in the Amenti. Why are not also sows and
crocodiles brought before Osiris to be judged by him ?
Egyptian metempsychosis was not a chaos of incarnated
beings, man becoming pell-mell a lizard, an ox, or a bird.
Jan. 1, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
9
There was a principle of reincarnation equitably governing
the movements of spirits in the human race, and I venture to
think that what Heredotus tells us on this subject is tinctured
with error. These papyri and these inscriptions are more
truthful than historians. Besides, the drawings in the cata¬
combs of Biban-el-Molouk demonstrate sufficiently that
human souls were also punished in the human form and not
in that of an animal.
It has been also said that the Egyptians believed in a final
resurrection, and that they mummified their bodies to pre¬
serve them for this end; I believe that to be also a false
opinion, for I have never read anything to that effect in the
funeral rituals. As the Egyptians did not, like the Indians,,
burn their corpses, they mummified them to avoid pestilence.
This reason seems all the more plausible in that the plague
was unknown to the ancient Egyptians, and only appeared in
Egypt with Christianity, when they began to bury the bodies
of the dead, which, being covered by the Nile during its over¬
flow, were the cause of pestilential miasma.
There are, besides, countless passages in the funeral rituals,
where a final and celestial state of happiness is spoken of as
awaiting the souls of the virtuous, and it is even said, “the
bodies that they have left behind will repose for ever in their
tombs,” a passage from which I have already quoted, and which
proves sufficiently that the dogma of any sort of resurrection
can never have formed a part of Egyptian teaching.
Metempsychosis is therefore nothing but the Spiritualist
doctrine of onward progress, without return to the cast-off
body, and without incarnation in the bodies of animals inferior
to man. Heredotus and Plato, who collected a few vague
ideas on Egyptian psychology, give us the space of three
thousand years for this progressive purification, but, according
to the text of the Egyptian papyri, erring souls could be
myriads of years working out their salvation. We know that
the idea of social progress is altogether modern, but it appears
that the idea of individual progress existed among the Egyp¬
tians, and that that which the Spiritualism (or Spiritism) of
to-day sets forth as a novelty in psychological research, was
admitted long before our times/by that learned priesthood.
The attentive investigator will see more than one point of
correlation between the Spiritualism of our day and that of
the time of the Pharaohs. Inasmuch as our Spiritualism is
not only a science but a system of morality, it was also the
aim of the Egyptian doctrine to reform and elevate the
people. The religion of Isis referred the judgment of human
actions to a supreme court from which there was no appeal,
by giving to all men equally the time necessary for the
amendment of their faults. Champollion says on this sub¬
ject : “ the successive transmigrations of the soul. . . gave
, but a picture of the trials through which the divine emanation
had to pass in order to arrive at infinite perfection, the con¬
stant aim of its virtuous striving. . . . The figurative expression
of this belief, by symbols which appealed directly to the mind
of all, was multiplied with studied perseverance ; as the
foundation of public morality, it was reproduced on the public
monuments by the aid of all the arts . .. kings and citizens
were cited before the same tribunal. ...”
I think I have said enough in vindication of the beauty of
the Egyptian doctrine of immortality, a doctrine which has
begun to reappear amongst us, and which may be summed up
in these words : Endless progression of the soul towards per¬
fection by individual effort; abolition of an everlasting hell;
plurality of terrestrial and celestial existences; lastly, a pure
and perfect Spiritualism!
How did the Egyptians arrive at these ideas ? I believe it
was by the study of the laws of nature and of spiritual mani¬
festations that these philosophic notions arose in Egypt.
These great people were eminent observers. “ One cannotr
without injustice,” says Champollion, “ deny to Egypt the
honour of the sublime results of her long study of man and
of the universe.” According to this great archaeologist, “ the
study of man ” was the basis of the psychological doctrine
of the people of the Nile. This study was in fact the prin¬
cipal occupation of the Egyptian priests. The dissections
they used to make when preparing the mummies had given
them an extensive knowledge of the body and of the human
machinery. Anatomy was so advanced among them that
there were surgeons for special branches on their medical
corps. I will not digress from my subject by entering here
upon a question which might be made a special object of
study. I will content myself with remarking that animal
magnetism seems to have been known to the ancient Egyp¬
tians. The Baron Du Potet has published in his Journal
several Egyptian drawings evidently representing scenes of
magnetism. There were healers among the priests, and there
were other priests who sold dreams; that is to say, who
knew how to dream for purposes of consultation. Somnam¬
bulism, second sight, mediumship have been phenomena in
all ages, and there is no doubt that the learned of that time
took advantage thereof for the elucidation of their religious
beliefs.
In support of what I have just said, I will transcribe here
a very curious passage from Hermes Trismegistes, which tends
to prove that the ancient Egyptians were acquainted 'with
spirit-communion, for it is there said: “ Of all the wonders
which we have observed in man, that which most commands
our admiration, is that men should have known how to find
the divine nature, and to put it to use. ... As they (men)
could not make5* souls, they evoked those of demons or of
angels, and fixed them in holy images and divine mysteries,
as the only means of giving power to the idols, to work good
or evil.” *
These lines have no need of comment; they are sufficiently
clear and explicit. Spirit communications and evocations
were well-known facts; spirits attached themselves to idols
and images of saints as in our day to tables, and the divine
mysteries were neither more nor less than those things which
take place at our seances and in our cabinets.
There is much to be said on this subject, and history will
have to be rewritten by the light of Spiritualism.
Spirit manifestations must have been known to antiquity.
In fact, the art had been so much abused, that Moses was
forced to expressly forbid his people to call upon the dead
(Deut. xviii. 11). It would appear that evil magicians and
evil spirits conspired together. The Journal Asiatique pub¬
lished by the Asiatic Society of Paris (November—^December,
1867), contains an interesting essay on two papyri, called re¬
spectively the Lee, and Bollin papyrus. They give the account
of a trial in the reign of Bameses HI. (fifteen centuries before
Christ), in which the accused are magicians and sorcerers of
the period, who tried to penetrate, by the force of magic, into
the king’s palace, with revolutionary intentions. The learned
author of the article says that magic and incantations were
inseparable from religion; they constituted the divine science,
the art of all arts, and their practice was only forbidden to
the vulgar, who abused them, and who continue to abuse them
to this day.
This fear of abuse explains perhaps why Moses forbade
necromancy, and never even spoke of immortality to the
children of Israel. The great lawgiver was also versed in
Egyptian learning, and must have been acquainted with this
dogma. He may have had other grounds for silence; he
wished perhaps to root out Polytheism, for to the vulgar, spirits
became as gods.* In any case it is certain that the Egyptian
priest was always a Spiritualist. Who knows what manifesta¬
tions may have taken place in the darkness of the depths of
the Memphian temples ? Who knows what raps may have
resounded in the gloomy vaults of those immense palaces of
granite ? There is fine material here for an historical treatise
on “ Comparative Spiritualism,” a study which will doubtless
be pursued some day. The materialistic ideas of the eighteenth
century had too much influence on the Egyptologists of the
time of the Champollions, and the historical question of the
“ Spirits ” has been totally neglected and confounded with what
is contemptuously called “ magic.” But we are perhaps not far
from the time when these errors will be rectified. And to this
end archseologists have but to initiate themselves into the
truths of modern Spiritualism, and to study from this point
of view the emblematic writings of papyri and mummies,
which speak to us so eloquently across the abyss of forty
centuries of silence!
The Proposed Illustrated Spiritual Periodical.—
Orders for this proposed journal are still flowing in steadily,
and the increased list will be published shortly; the demand
for Liverpool has increased from twenty to about fifty. Those
who intend to take it in are requested to send their names
and addresses to Mr. W. H. Harrison, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C. If a good list of subscribers is obtained on this
side of the Atlantic, it will remain only to be seen how many
are obtainable on the other; by union in this matter, a very
valuable and self-supporting journal will be introduced into
Spiritualism, calculated to make converts among those readers
whose adhesion would give great strength to the cause, besides
which it will do good work by placing passing events pictorially
on record. Specimen pages may be obtained on application.
* See Hermes Trismegistes, translated by Menard.—0. C.
* Wete the Egyptian vulgar alone in this respect?—Translator.
10
THE SPIRITUALIST.
oromgpontience.
[Great freedom, is given to correspondents,who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE OBOUE OE SANCTITY.
Sib,—The account which you printed a short time ago, of
phenomena connected with the evolution of scent in an abnor¬
mal manner, has brought me several letters requesting further
information. The record which you were able to give, was
necessarily imperfect, and I shall be glad if you will allow me
to explain somewhat more precisely.
In every circle with which I am acquainted, some means is
used of inducing harmonious conditions. This is usually done
by means of music or singing. In our circle it has always
been by means of perfumes. Prom the very first we have been
enjoined to stillness, and attempts at conversation have
usually been repressed. We do not use a musical box, nor has
music been asked for. But no seance passes without perfumes
being showered upon us, or perfumed waves of air being wafted
round the circle. These waves of air usually blow over my
head, so that by putting up my hand I can feel the cold air
blowing over my head twelve or eighteen inches above it. It
is not until the waves of scented air come round to me that I
detect the presence of perfume, except on rare occasions.
These perfumes are of various kinds, rose, sandal-wood, and
verbena, being favourites. Any sweet-scented flowers in the
room are utilised, and their perfume extracted. This is notably
the case in the country where fresh flowers are obtainable.
We have noticed in such cases that the presence of a particular
flower in the room would determine the prominent spirit
odour; and that particular blossoms would have all the per¬
fume extracted from them for the time, though the odour
would return on the following day. Sometimes, however, a
perfectly distinct odour would be extracted from—or, more
precisely, be put upon—a particular flower. In this case the
flower invariably withered and died in a very short time.
It is now some months since I first noticed the presence of
a perfumed atmosphere round myself, especially during the
times when I was suffering pain. I have been liable to
neuralgia, and at such times those around me have noticed the
presence of perfume of various kinds, such as those which we
observe during our seances.. One evening I was standing at an
open window through which the air was blowing, and the per¬
fume of rose was so marked, that friends who were present
endeavoured to trace it to some definite source. It was found
to be localised in a spot no bigger than a shilling at the top of
my head. The spot was perceptibly wet with the perfume,
which oozed out more freely on pressure. Since that time we
have become familiar with the fact, and have ceased to wonder
Vhen the perfume shows itself, if I am suffering pain. The
process is, as I am informed, remedial, and I have knowledge
of at least one medium now living, who has frequently
observed a similar phenomenon, though not referable to per¬
fume localised in one spot.
But, indeed, the fact is both new and old. We have not
observed it of late years, perhaps because we have not searched
for it, but in mediaeval days the fact was perfectly familiar. It
is only now that we are beginning to understand the phe¬
nomena of mediumship, which showed themselves among the
monks, nuns, and the recluses, of the middle ages. They
were in many cases powerful mediums, they gave themselves
the best conditions—seclusion, prayer, fasting—and the odour
of sanctity became a well-known occurrence among them.
Only they named it badly. There was no particular sanctity
about them or about us now—frequently the reverse. The
perfume had nothing to do with sanctity. It was a phenome¬
non of mediumship which was rife then, and which exists
now, perhaps more frequently than we know.
M. A. (Oxon).
ME. JOHN HEIGHT AT A SEANCE.
Sir,—I enclose a report given by the Dundee Advertiser,
December 16, 1874, of a seance with our N South Wales
mediums, Messrs. Peck and Sadler, who have been on a tour
in the North of England and Scotland for a few weeks. They
visited Halifax and Bochdale, holding seances, and from ac¬
counts received everything gave great satisfaction. There
were present on the several occasions many of the respectable
portions of the inhabitants. At Bochdale Mr. John Bright,
M.P., was present. I am informed he was much satisfied ; he
attended some of my demonstrations in that town formerly,
Jan. 1, 1875.
and on one occasion said: “ We are convinced against the
evidence of our own senses.”
I am happy to say we are making satisfactory progress here,
several private seances are being held. We are trying to deve-
lope and bring out some good mediums. I have just finished
a course of nine lectures on animal magnetism at our new
Agricultural Hall; though the ^audiences were not large, they
were 'select; of those from the audience who submitted to
be operated on, several came under the influence very quickly,
and we hope to procure some good mediums from among
them. I am afraid the people generally here do not read
much; many appear so very ignorant of the phenomena of
Spiritualism. However, I hope we shall have some wonderful
things to tell you shortly about our doings. Inquiring minds
are about. I have just had a letter from one of our head mer¬
chants, wishing to know more of these things.
I have just been able to perform two good cures of people
belonging to this town ; one who had' been at the asylum at
Bridgend has now been quite brought back to her right mind.
The other, who was in a very weak state, after living in London
and Bristol for nearly two years, and who returned home still
in a very weak state, is now well and walking about. We are
going to try what we can do this winter to carry on the good
cause. H. Hudson.
16, St. Mary-street, Swansea.
SPIRIT MATEBIAIiISATION AND DE-MATEBIALISATION AT
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
Hot.—O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Ham.—And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
' Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Hamlet.
Sib,—As the following phenomena have occurred on two
occasions in a private circle in Newcastle, of which we (the
undersigned) are members and were present, thinking it
might be of interest to your readers, we venture to send you
the following report of the same.
The cabinet used consists of a shallow recess in the wall on
one side of the fireplace with two large scarlet window
curtains suspended in front; as the cabinet thus formed is
barely large enough for the medium to lie down in, we, by
direction of the spirits, place a large drawing-room screen
about three or four feet in front of the curtains, height of
screen five feet six-and-a-half inches. The spirits materialise
themselves in the space between the screen and curtains, one
of the leaves of the screen acting as a door for ingress and
egress.
As on the first occasion the phenomena above named were
seen only by a portion of the circle because of the door of
the screen not being sufficiently wide open to admit a view for
all the sitters, we will describe only the seance of Friday last,
December 18th, when all could see what was transpiring.
The number of persons assembled was sixteen, and after
seating ourselves in a double row in the form of a segment of
a circle, the radius of which from the door of the screen was
about eight feet (the door of the room being previously locked
and the key taken possession of by one of the circle), Miss
Wood, the well-known medium here, retired into the cabinet.
The amount of light was reduced. She was soon entranced
by one of her guides, who after a little chat requested us to be
very harmonious, and they would endeavour to de-materialise
in our sight.
After singing a few hymns with heart and voice we saw the
door of the screen slowly open, and the form of little Focoa-
hontas, familiarly called ” Pokky,” an Indian child about
three feet six or seven inches high, presented herself. She
only advanced two or three feet from the door of the screen,
and after exhibiting her dark arm and chest at the request of
various sitters, she playfully amused herself by taking a few
cinders from the fireplace and tossing them to two or three of
the sitters; after giving two or three more manifestations she
retired to the doorway of the screen and gradually vanished
from our sight. Shortly after the door of the screen was
closed, and we were requested by raps to sing. Having com¬
plied therewith, after a brief space the door of the screen was
opened to its widest extent by unseen power ; we looked in
vain for a hand or something as the cause. The door of the
screen remained thus open from this time, and was not
closed again during the seance ; presently in full view of all
the sitters, at the entrance to the doorway of the screen, a
something white appeared on the floor, though no mortal
hand was seen to place it there; slowly and very gradually this
white object grew in size and height till it reached about the
THE SPIKITUALIST.
11
Jan. 1, 1875.
height of three feet from the floor, from Which it developed
more rapidly till the fall form of a man, clad in white,
about five feet eight inches high appeared before us. We
asked if it was “ Benny,” (one of the medium’s guides); he
nodded in the affirmative, and waved his arms above his head.
After two or three minor manifestations, he was requested to
take a pencil and mark on the wall as high as he could reach,
which having done, he retired to the door of the screen, and
standing there in full view of all, gradually diminished in
size and height till what remained appeared like a white
pocket-handkerchief on the carpet, which itself shortly faded
away. We were again requested to sing, during which the
power having been restored to the medium, the meeting broke
up, and thus ended one of the most extraordinary and satis¬
factory seances it was ever the pleasure of your correspondents
to witness.
Some of the sitters were so placed that they could see the
whole of the space between the screen and the curtains while
the door of the screen was open, and had the medium taken
a part in the manifestations she must assuredly have been
detected; finally, the medium was requested, when restored
to her normal state, to make a mark on the wall with a
pencil, which she did standing on tip-toe, and reaching to her
utmost; it was then found that her mark was seven and a-half
inches short of that made by the materialised form “ Benny.”
The height of the medium is 4 ft. 11 in.
In conclusion, it is needless to say that after this, none
present were doubters as to the genuineness of the phenomena;
and when we reflect upon what occurred daring these, to us,
brief two hours, we recall to mind the lines from Young’s
Night Thoughts:—
How poor, how rich, how abject, how augnst,
How complicate, how wonderful is man!
How passing wonder He, who made him such!
Who center’d in our make such strange extremes!
From diff’rent natures marvellously mixt;
Connexion exquisite of distant worlds !
Distinguish'd link in being’s endless chain,
Midway from nothing to the Deity!
********
.... I tremble at myself.
And in myself am lost! at home a stranger,
Thought wanders up and down, surpris’d, aghast,
And wond’ring at her own. How reason reels !
O what a miracle to man is man,
Triumphantly distress’d, what joy, what dread!
Alternately transported, and alarm’d !
What can preserve my life? or what destroy?
An angel’s arm can’t snatch me from the grave;
Legions of angels can't confine me there.
We enclose our addresses and remain,
Thomas Lamb J. H. Isitt
John Mould H. A. Kebsev
Newcastle, Dec. 23, Wm. Abmstbong John Milleb
1874. B. Jeffbey.
A COEBECTION.
Sib,—I observe a slight inaccuracy in the report of my
speech in the Oxford Union as it appears in your columns.
One sentence is printed thus :—“ From one point of view the
Medium is important;” whereas what I said was:—“ From
one point of view the Medium is the most important of all.”
St. Geoboe Stock.
ORTHODOXY.
Sib,—I would that Mr. Martheze were accurate, because
accuracy on the part of opponents is the only method by which
wrongs or errors can be righted. His assertion that my letter
in The Spiritualist, on the 11th of December, 1874, was a long
one on orthodoxy, is untrue ; it had only less than three lines
about orthodoxy, and the words were—“ I and others claim
the right to let the outside public know, that there are
orthodox Christian Spiritualists.” The length of the article on
other subjects was less than a column,—a contrast to the eight
columns we had from the other side.
Gladly would I answer the ten questions put to me
by Mr. Martheze, because his heart is in Spiritualism; but
the answer to be somewhat effective, would take ten columns
of type, and when finished it would only be considered my j
belief, be skimmed over, and possibly ten more questions put;
it being so much easier to put questions than give satisfactory
answers. Every father has so felt it. I could put ten ordinary
scientific questions to Mr. Martheze, and he could not answer
correctly one of them. If so ignorant on the structure and
powers of substances he can handle, we must not consider
ourselves clever because we object, or consider that nothing
exists but what we understand.
Orthodoxy is founded on testimony and on personal know¬
ledge. Bsason, like a judge, has decided on certain elementary
principles, which have shaped themselves into terse expres¬
sions, to be expanded by each individual according to his con¬
fidence in testimony and his own experiences. Orthodoxy is
in its broad basis, as I stated lately in the Medium—“ God
our Father—Christ our Leader—Immortality—Heaven to the
good-doers—Retribution to the evil-doers—Special providence.
The Bible is the best store-house of testimony we have;
through its historical narratives we have a perception of the
action of a superior mind direct and indirect on man. The
lack of a system of punctuation in the original copies of the
Bible has produced the same confusion of mind in apprehend¬
ing the meaning, that we have in our law courts every law
term, from our abstracts and parchment deeds not being
punctuated ; and one Queen’s Counsel differs from another as
to the true meaning, as much as theologians do. Yet the
deeds were prepared, and the facts therein true.
When translations were made into foreign languages by
persons practically unacquainted with oriental manners, cus¬
toms, habits of thought and idioms, mistakes were made, and
that as easily as if an Orientalist were to translate English
into Persian, and write, “ The sun set in darkness.” The
Orientalists might say, “That is untrue; the sun never sets ;
it cannot and never did set in darkness. The English
astronomy priests were an ignorant set of men. We cannot
rely on what they affirm.” The discovery of copies of the
Scriptures more ancient than those from which our authorised
Euglish translation was made has cleared up many am¬
biguities ; and I doubt not the official revision now going on
by men accepted as qualified, will correct many other errors
or expressions, which have been laid hold of to erect theo¬
logical theories by human reason based on imperfect know¬
ledge of facts, and so created sects on minor questions, leaving
the broad orthodox principles previously detailed, the basis
for all the sects: Church of England, of Scotland, Methodist,
Independent, Baptist, Roman, and others. Truly, one faith,
one hope, one baptism of the Divine. Spiritualistic pheno¬
mena destroy the faith of the atheist and modern Sadducee,
and confirm that of the Christian—that the miracles recorded
in Scripture were facts. As Spiritualists, our work is to let
our knowledge be known, and silence the ignorance-mongers,
who jabber in our societies founded to examine portions of
the products of the Infinite.
Mr. Martheze and others should earnestly find out wherein
orthodoxy and Spiritualism are one; if he does so, he will find
himself almost, if not altogether, orthodox. Calmly ponder
over each principle I have named, and in the light of Spirit¬
ualistic phenomena and teachings, judge impartially.
Take them—God our Father—Christ our leader—immor¬
tality—special providence—heaven (or higher sphere) for the
good—retribution (or lower sphere) for the evil. Do not
waste time over minor questions. Ask yourself—“ Shall I go
and worship the Deity with the orthodox, or go and worship
Nature with the Infidel, who denies the being of a God, of a
spirit, of the phenomena I have calmly and earnestly ex¬
amined and know to be true ?” If in the Church, Mr. Martheze
does not know a minister, so earnest as he is on spiritual
knowledge, try and find one among the Dissenters; surely,
all are not inferior to him ; and even if it should be so, show
to men—to angels—to spirits—to the ghosts who can see him
—that he loves the same Higher being they do, by the visible
sign of Mr. Martheze’s actual visible body, in a house built for
adoration—for praise. J. Enmobe Jones.
Enmore-park, S.E.
DAlston Association.—The fourth anniversary of the
establishment of this Association is to be commemorated by
a soiree dansante, at the Luxembourg Hall, Dalston, on Thurs¬
day evening, the 14th instant. The managers of the arrange¬
ments for the enjoyment of those who will attend, say that the
preparations are very complete, and the event promises to be
an attractive one in many respects, so probably many well-
known friends of Spiritualism will be present on the occasion.
Messrs. Green and Blyton, the soiree committee, inform us
that they have received several liberal and kindly letters,
offering the loan of various articles of interest for exhibition,
amongst the lenders being Mr. Benjamin Coleman, Mrs. Cook,
Mrs. Mary fil. Tebb, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. T. Everitt, and
others. The committee will be grateful for any further pro¬
mises of assistance from other metropolitan Spiritualists. For
farther particulars see our advertising columns.
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1875.
There are all the materials for a good society of Spirit¬
ualists in Brixton, if anybody can be found to do the neces¬
sary official work.
p Passed to Spirit Lire.—Mr. David Thomson King, the
electrician, who went down with the ill-fated La P/afa telegraph
ship in the Bay of Biscay on 29th Nov., was the only brother
of Mr. G-eorge King, of the Council of the National Association.
Mr. David T. King, though only twenty-one years of age,
already bid fair to take a high place in the ranks of science,
and was making his second voyage to Brazil as representative
of Professors Sir William Thomson and Fleeming Jenkin, the
engineers to the Platino Braziliero. Telegraph Company. Mr.
George King has just returned to London from a hurried visit
to Kome, where he had been called by telegram to see his
father, who is travelling in search of health.
Spiritualism ik Carrickfergtjs.—A private letter from
Carrickfergus says :—“ In this neighbourhood Spiritualism is
being investigated by several persons of intelligence, but they
have nearly all arrived at the idea there is nothing in it but
“ will power.” I believe the reason of this conclusion is
obvious. The clergy of the town are denouncing it as
belonging to the devil. Many would like" to investigate were
it not for this cry of the priests of all denominations, who
will not allow their hearers to take the advice given by the
apostle to prove all things and hold fast that which is good.
The latest explanation of the facts is given by a gentleman of
the press, who took part in a seance in this town on Saturday
night last. It was the first time he ever saw the table move,
and he gives his theory of it in the Belfast Morning News of
yesterday which I send you for criticism.”
Go swell Hall Meetings.—On Sunday evening Mr.
Cogman occupied the platform at Goswell Hall, Goswell-
street, London, and under the control of his spirit guides, gave
an instructive address. Mr. Haxby presided, and Miss Bagar
(trance medium) occupied a seat on the platform. After a
hymn had been sung, Mr. Haxby read the 19th Psalm, and
introduced Mr. Cogman, who rose, and under the-influence
of his spirit guides, spoke on the passages read as being full
of satisfaction to those who hungered and thirsted after right¬
eousness. He also spoke of the myriads of prophets, kings,
and seers, now in the spirit world, of their present nearness to
mankind, and of the intellectual times in which we are living. At
the close of the lecture a few questions were asked and replied
to. Miss Eagar, under the control of her spirit guides, rose
and addressed the audience for a few minutes in a kindly
way, giving them advice as to how they might hold com¬
munion with spirits. The meeting closed with another hymn.
Next Sunday evening Mrs. Bullock will give an address under
the control of her spirit guides. A soiree, to aid the Sunday
services, will be held at Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road, on
Thursday evening next, the 7th inst. The entertainment will
be similar to the soiree of the 26th November last. Many
friends have kindly given in their names to assist on the
occasion. Other friends are invited to co-operate, and assist
in making the soiree a pleasant and successful meeting.
Particulars will be found in another column.
Spiritualism in Darlington.—Mr. T. P. Hinde writes
that the Darlington Association of Spiritualists had an
interesting meeting on Sunday evening last week, the usual
proceedings being enlivened by the presence of Mr. Bichard-
son, of Seaham harbour, the editor of a paper supplying that
district with news. Since his recent acceptance of the spirit¬
ual hypothesis, as the only tenable one covering the whole
ground of the phenomena of modern Spiritualism, he has had
a considerable portion of his time engaged in writing letters,
and otherwise defending the noble cause he has espoused.
At Darlington he narrated some of his experiences to the
following effect:—“ Tears ago I was led to adopt ^materialism
as the only rational philosophy I had heard of to explain the
phenomena of existence. Spiritualism attracted my attention,
and its apparently preposterous claims invited my antagonism,
so I wished to expose the seeming delusion; I investigated,
and from the various kind of phenomena which I observed,
my antipathy was overruled by the sheer weight of evidence
proving the reality of the facts, and the spirits who produced
the same.” Mr. Hinde adds: “ To tell you the truth, it’s
quite refreshing now-a-days to come across a man who is
honest and earnest enough to avow right out his convictions
of the truth of an unpopular cause, which Mr. Bichardson
has done both in public and private life; you could not ask
for better fruits of his true manhood; there is no mistaking
the genuineness of such coin, it has the true ring in it. Mr.
Biohardson says that he will advocate the cause by lecturing
shortly.”
A Handbill informs us that “Water-Colour Drawings
i (numbering about 400), illustrative of the Origin of Species,
executed under spirit influence, through the mediumship of
Mrs. Catherine Berry, together with a collection of spirit
photographs, and miscellaneous spirit drawings, are now being
exhibited at the rooms of the Brighton Spiritual Union, 82,
St. James’s-street, Brighton.”
The Circulation oe Periodicals.—Data as to the cir¬
culation of periodicals are usually fallacious, because accurate
knowledge of the circulation of a journal reveals its exact
financial position; hence, when the public put questions on
this head which they have no right to ask, they get extra¬
ordinary replies from unscrupulous men, when such are
connected with the commercial department of newspapers.
Taking the case of English provincial newspapers, in nineteen
cases out of twenty the statistics as to their circulation current
in their several localities, are as reliable as the teetotal state¬
ment established for a quarter of a century, that “ fifty thou¬
sand drunkards die every year.” In the course of long ex¬
perience in newspaper life, we have sometimes known journals
to suffer in consequence of false reports as to their sale, be¬
cause, the circulation of a paper being given, the value of its
advertisements and trade influence (if any) estimated, and the
expense of producing a similar journal being exactly known,
a common sum in arithmetic proves the owner to be
making enormous profits, hence his untruthful statis¬
tics bring fresh journals into the field. One reason why
we give no information about the circulation of The
Spiritualist, is, that the usual trade method of inventing
high statistics for one journal, and low ones for its
competitors, is grossly immoral, and Spiritualism and all
other “ isms”ought to be kept free from every trace of every
kind of sham. Our readers know for themselves that this
journal is the recognised organ of Spiritualists of education
and culture throughout this country, its colonies, and on the
Continent of Europe; the more thoughtful of the poorer
classes also take it in,; thus it permeates the heart and back¬
bone of the movement; and this position has been attained
notwithstanding the great injury inflicted on it for years by
the subscription system. The circulation is a good one, much
higher than some Spiritualists, devoid of truthful knowledge
on the subject have been repeating. When the public receive
false information as to the circulation of a journal, the check
is always in their own hands, for, on making an easy mathe¬
matical calculation, it will be seen that the owner is realising
enormous profits, a circumstance it may not be always con¬
venient to admit, even when proved by his own figures.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(ESTABLISHED A.D. 1870.)
The Council beg to announce to the members and their friends, as well as
Metropolitan Spiritualists, that arrangements have been made to
commemorate the
FOURTH ANNIYEESARY
OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ASSOCIATION, BY A
SOIREE DANSANTE,
AT THE LUXEMBURGH HALL,
(Opposite Dalston Junction Station, North London Railway),
ON THURSDAY EVENING, JAN. 14th, 1875.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, ESQ. (President of the Association), will preside;
A first-class Tea, and Coffee, <fc., will he provided during the evening.
i Vocal and Instrumental Music, interspersed with short congratulatory
addresses by influential Spiritualists and friends, Will be contributed between
Half-past Seven and Nine o’clock.
Doors open at Six o Olock, Dancing to Commence at Nine o’Clock.
M.C., Mr. Bishop. An efficient Band will be in attendance.
A number of Paintings, Writings, Drawings, Photographs of eminent
English and Foreign Spiritualists, specimens of Spirit Photography,' Lite¬
rature, Crystals, &c., will be exhibited during the evening.
Admission:—Single Ticket, 8s.; Members of the Association, 2s. 6d.
Double do. (for Lady and Gentleman), 5s.; Members, 8s. 6d. Family do.
(to admit Fow Persons), 7s. 6d.; Members, §s.
To be obtained prior to the date of the Soiret Sansante, at the follow¬
ing Agents, viz.—Mr. Thos. Wilks, Circulating Library, Dalston-lane, E.;
Miss Luckhurst, Stationer, &c., 202, Queen’s-rdad, Dalston, E.; Mr Ttiomas
Blyton, 12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, E.; Mr. J. Sparey, 13, Middleton-road,
Kingsland, E.; Mr. Robert Cogman’s Spiritualist Institute, 15, St. Peter’s-
road, Mile End, E.; Mr. F. M. Parkes, Spirit Photographer, 6, Gaynes Park-
terrace, Grove-road, Bow, E.; Mr. F. Bear, Tobacconist, 12, High-street,
Bow, E.; Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden Town, N. W.; Mrs.
Maltby, 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.; at the
Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.; and at the doors
of the Hall, on Hie evening.
Early application for Tickets is respectfully solicited.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Sec.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
Jan. 1, 1875.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the ORE AT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover-square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12. to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR.. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURAT IYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational speaker,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month ef June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Stances every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o'clock,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute-road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham, Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russelh street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERBY, 96, Russbul-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
COATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year’sf Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived, and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8£d. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjatnin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fiiz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown. James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-roud. Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice, D.D, 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlbam-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendo Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-roadj North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
I Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
, Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.!
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road,'01dKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, Jl, 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F.v J^House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer. ®
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres-
• pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Grata
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg. _
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs ’Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell •
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52. Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
, Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1875.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adarh-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appoiiited on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J.S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.E.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E-; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Veomahs,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist, or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
- hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
8. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is wey to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and' talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell-the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some member's of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is.the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
Well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.-
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
•pirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship ban tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATS STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application. —  
mO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
JL to read the literature of Spiritualism and other pingressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large , collection of Spiritual and .other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of hew and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman
20, Paternoster-row, London, EVC.. and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain -
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
Ait communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOYERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving Of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, It, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the ;path of duty: also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
“ PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.”
THIS ia so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, as follows:—For No. 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, 10s.; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. 6d.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting 'the No. 4. All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.
Ready by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Book. Anew
work on -
Spiritualism, science, and Christianity;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members Of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spiritsy
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many othen
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. 6d.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holborn, London, W. C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed
liberal discount eor cash.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbora Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
