V
[Registered as a Newspaper.
$>ff) joifS(>fSi< f)0YdSoi<o^idSi<
ka^ppsl Sphifttalism hx dnat ^rtiarix.
No. 182. (Yol. VIII.—No. 7.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontenta.
Dr. Carpenter on “ Prepossession." By Epes Sargent ...
Soul and Spirit:—Speculative Questions and Spirit Com¬
munications — Uselessness of Minute Discussion on
Abstruse Points—Elementary Spirits  
11 Hafed, Prince of Persia’’,..    
Concerning Descriptions of the Spirit World. By One
who is In It ... ... ...  i  ...
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris  
A Spirit Message   ...   ... ... ... ...
The Doppelganger or Double; A Spiritual Communication
given through the Mediumship of the Baroness Adelma
vonVay ... 1     
Correspondence:—Ernest Renan’s “Life of Jesus"—Rein¬
carnation—Where shall the next Spiritualist Conference
be held?—Spiritualism in. East London—The Govan
Mesmeric Case — A Political Prophecy — Remarkable
Verification of a Spiritual Communication — Publius
Syrus—Charging Articles with Mesmeric Influence —
What Scientific Men should Do—A New Lending
Library—The Relationship of Mesmerism to Spiritualism
—Seances for Inquirers—Angels, Spirits, and Men—A
Remarkable/Seance with Mr. Williams—Suggested Visit
of Dr. Monck to Ireland—The Bamford Brothers in
Southport—Spiritual Meetings in Barrow-in-Furness ...
Provincial News:—Liverpool, Proceedings of the Psychc-
logical Society—Neiocastle-on-Tyne, Strict Test Seance ...
Florence Cook’s Mediumship  
Testing Mediums by the Aid of Electricity ...   
Chinese Spirits as Described in Chinese Fiction. From
The Globe ...    
Paragraphs:—A Fair Incendiary, 77; Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 83 ; Spiritualism in Rush-
den, 83; Lord Rayleigh and Spiritualism, 83; Mrs.
Bassett's Mediumship, 83; National Association Offices,
83; Seance at Mrs. Gregory’s, 81; Islington Spiritual
Institution    ... ... ...    ... *... ■...
73
74
76
76
77
77
77
78
82
S3
83
84
84
Cb* ^mntalxst fUtorspaw,
^Established in 1869. *
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every teu words in addition. Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ’’ is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudi en6e
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Coctentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price 10s. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspapar Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Sxmbkin, Marshall & Co.
Will shortly be published,
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTH-
SEEKEBS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” Over forty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “Scientific Spiritual¬
ism,” “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power," “Rules for the
Spirit-circle," &c., &c., by S. C. Hall, Dr. W. Hitch man,
“ Fritz," T. P. Barkas, &c. Will be found very useful among
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societies or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.DM etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY'S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE FOR TWO
GUINEAS PER MONTH.
With Immediate Possession and no Rent to pay.—Apply at the
Office of the Birkbkck Building Society, 29 <fe 30, South¬
ampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF LAND FOR
FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH.
With Immediate Possession, either for Building or Gardening
purposes.—Apply at the Office of the Birkbeck Freehold
Land Society, 29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-
lane. .
HOW TO INVEST YOUR MONEY WITH SAFETY.
Apply at the Office of the Birkbeck Bank, 29 and 30, South¬
ampton buildings, Chancery-lane. All sums under £50
repayable upon demand.
Current Accounts opened, and Interest allowed on the
minimum monthly balances. Cheque-books supplied. English
'and Foreign Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
Advances made thereon.
Office hours from ten to four; except onSaturdays, when the
Bank closes at two o’clock. On Mondays the Bank is open
until nine o'clock in the evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thacketav, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and R'ch, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, pub¬
lished on the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue
de la Cath&lrale, Lifege, Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socilti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capueines, Paris.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
1 Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Birmingham athenaeum, temple
STREET.—On MONDA.Y, February 21st, Mr. J. W.
MAHON Y will give RECITALS from Shakspere, Byron, Hood,
Tennyson, Eliza Cook, and other Poets, comprising the follow¬
ing pieces:—“Selection from Hamlet,” soliloquy in first act;
“Lady Clara Yere-de-Yere ” (Tennyson); “Honesty, a frag¬
ment” (Eliza Cook); “Bridge of Sighs” (Hood); “Better than
Gold; ” “ Selection from Hamlet, Advice to the Players ; ”
“Field of Wat-rloo’’ (Byron); “ Shamus O’Brien ” (by re¬
quest); “ Selection from Henry the Fifth, Speech of Henry in
the Treaty Scene; “The Dream of Eugene Aram” (Hood);
and the soliloquy by Hamlet in fourth act, never spoken on the
stage.
Several efficient vocalists will take part in the programme.
Tickets Is. and 6d. each, may be obUined at Mr. Hill’s. Bristol-
street; Mr. Lowe, Ann-street; Mr. Turner, Icknield-street
West; and from Mr. Mahony, 1, Cambrian-place, Aoglesey-
street, Lozells. To commence at eight o’clock.
The proceeds will go towards the cost of repairing damage
done to furniture (caused by overcrowding) on the occasion of
Mr. Mahony’s first reply to the editor of the Birmingham
Daily Mail.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
rpHE REV. F. R. YOUNG, of Swindon
JL (honorary membei), will READ a PAPER on “Our
Duties as Spiritualists to Opponents, Inquirers, and Ourselves,”
at the weekly meeting of the Dalston Association, on Thurs¬
day evening next, the 24th instant, at eight o’clock. Visitors
will be admitted on application to the h m. secretary, at the
Association’s rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.;
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
"DEAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
XV Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments. &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, W.C.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTIC). A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally'. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist new/paper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, Louden, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernavd-
villas, Upper Norwood.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and
periodicals connected wi'h Spiritualism, from all
parts of the world, and various high-elass journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership; Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d.
To non-members, annual tickets, 30/.; Quarterly, 10s.;
Mouthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on
Saturdays.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 18, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Camhridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Isliugton-sq.,
Liverpool.
Hollywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry H., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build^
ings, E.G.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexaudra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Riclimond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Aim’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street. Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-strcet, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AV.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hiude, Those 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, AV.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, U. T., 3, AVest-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, AAr.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AV.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-woodjN.AV.
Mawson, AVm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AV. D., Aylsliam, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. AVarwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool:
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent's
Park., N.AV.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Fincliley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Shepherd, J.,29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. w. F., J. House,IWoolwich-common.
Siiowers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, AV.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
AVedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aune-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S AV., and 3, Altenburg-terrace,Clapham Junction, S.AV.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
AVithall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV.
AVithall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblauds, AVimbledon-common, S.AV.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near AViesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor 0. AVittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, RueLauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, AVest 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germairy.
AV. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. AA’ittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
AV. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarle, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E, Crowell, Esq., M.D.,l96,Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York,.U.S.A,
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. AV. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts; 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena,: called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool. at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, AV.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in AVobum-street.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox. |
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G-. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lament, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
I February, 1875..
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and
Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists
only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, AVednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
state, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient's residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee, One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-
gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. 'Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal
Magnetism, begs1 to inform inquirers and others that
he is prepared to attend Public or Private Seances at the houses
of investigators or otherwise, and give his unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given
by him before the members of ‘ The Brixton Psychological
Society.” For terms, etc., apply by letter to Mr. S. R. Redman,
Brixton-hill, S.W.
MR. WILLIAM EGLINGTON, the PHY¬
SICAL MEDIUM, is at liberty to receive ENGAGE¬
MENTS for Stances at private houses. For terms, &c.,
address, Mr.W. Eglinston, St. James’s House, Walthamstow.
BIRMINGHAM. — Local Spiritualists are
earnestly invited to attend the Ordinary Meeting at the
Atheneeum, on Sunday, the 6th Feb., when after the Lecture
there will be explained to the meeting a co-operative scheme
for blending the material interests of Spiritualists and others,
an d for saving out of the profits otherwise paid to shopkeepers—
a Fund for the building of the Spiritual Hall.
CLAIRVOYANCE, and HEALING by SPIRIT
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-known Spirit-
Medium, on Thursday (other days by appointment only), from
two to four p.m. for Private ConsuHation, and four to five for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Belmont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven p.m., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive's Healing Powers
are now well established, and testified to by many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within ten
miles, two guineas inclusive.
In the Press.
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK AND TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Contains original articles written expressly for
the almanack by S. C. Hall, F.S.A., Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Calder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c., &c. Subjects—“ Scientific Spiritualism,” “ Cui
Bono," “The Healing Power,” “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life,” ‘ The Beneficent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,'
“Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
Art, magic, mundane, sub-mun¬
dane, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and p y-
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending books to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author's behalf, does not feel jus ifled
in sending out such a rare snd valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the book sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic, &c., 206, West 38th-
street, New York, America.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those, who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance dally, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals. .
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUS¬
CULAR DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J. Coates, Principal.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL magazine.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister for over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrameled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
It contains thirty-two pages of leading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum Spiritualist
newspaper branch c-ffice, 38, Great Russell-street ,
London, W.C.
BY EPES SAKGENT.
The great conjuring word by which Dr. Carpenter would
dispel the facts of modern Spiritualism is ‘prepossession.
Almost everything in the least puzzling may, in his philo¬
sophy, be explained by “prepossession.”
In an article on “The Fallacies of Testimony,” in the
January number of the Contemporary Review, he remarks :
“ During the prevalence of an epidemic delusion the honest
testimony of any number of individuals on one side, if
given under a prepossession, is of no more weight than that
of a single adverse witness—if so much.”
And by this reasoning he would explain and dispose of all
that Spiritualism can offer of testimony for the movement
of objects independent of touch, the levitation of mediums,
and similar marvels!
Truly, if such an explanation is to be taken as scientific,
or as throwing the least light on the phenomena in question,
then may one cheaply earn the renown of a physicist.
“ Thus I think it cannot be doubted,” continues Dr. Car¬
penter, “ by any one who candidly studies the witchcraft
trials of two centuries back, that, as a rule, the witnesses
really believed what they deposed to as facts.”
Undoubtedly they did, and Spiritualists claim this as a
confirmation of what they themselves can testify to. That
there may have been plenty of lying and exaggeration at
the witchcraft trials, just as there may be at any modern
trial, is freely granted. But that in many cases the wit¬
nesses were neither deluded nor mendacious, no competent
investigator, acquainted with the modern phenomena, can
for a moment doubt.
The facts of levitation, or the elevation of persons from
the ground by an invisible force, believed to be spiritual, are
so numerous, direct, positive, and conclusive, that no one
but a savant, clinging to his hypothesis under the feeling
that if the facts contravene it, then it is “ so much the
worse for the facts,” could resist the accumulated testimony.
The records of the Catholic Church are full of well-attested
instances of this phenomenon. History, both sacred and
profane, asserts it. Tens of thousands of witnesses in our
own day, of which I may be counted one, testify to it. Dr.
Carpenter himself, referring to the case of St. Francis
d’Assisi, who was repeatedly seen “ remaining unsupported
in the air for a 'considerable length of time,” ingenuously
admits that “ some of the ablest ecclesiastical historians in
the English Church have confessed their inability to see on
what grounds—so far as external evidence is concerned—we
are to reject these, if the testimony of the Biblical narratives
is to be accepted as valid evidence of the supernatural occur-
ren<?es they relate.”
What Dr. Carpenter means for us to infer is obvious. If
these modern “ miracles ” are illusions, then must those on
which the Christian Church is built be illusions also. They
all belong to the same category. So Spiritualists generally
believe, and so believes Dr. Carpenter ; only in his view the
“ miracles ” are all equally baseless, and to be explained and
exploded by his theory of “prepossession.” Spiritualists,
on the other hand, knowing what has been done in our own
day, through the agency of a force we assume to be spiritual,
can readily accept the so-called “ miracles ” of the Old and
New Testament.
What the late Rev. James E. Smith, author of Tde
Divine Drama of Civilisation, said of Sir David Brewster’s
attempt to explain away the phenomena applies so closely
to Dr. Carpenter’s kindred attempt (in many respects a
repetition), that I must be permitted to qdote it here :—
“Jumping to conclusions too hastily, accounting for effects by the
most inefficient causes, substituting 'a mere Sadducean phraseology for
philosophical explanations, and employing, in respect to modern alleged
miracles, only such arguments as infidels employ in reference to scrip¬
tural miracles, the reviewer comes to just such a conclusion as a
Sadducee or a learned Roman would have come to in the times of the
apostles, and by the very same process; convincing, no doubt, those
who pin their faith to his philosophical reputation; but leaving the
question unsolved, and even untouched, in the estimation of the more
candid and unbiassed investigators. Taking up the least and the most
possible of the phenomena, he coolly attributes them all to imposture,
or ‘visual impression,’ ‘ expectant attention’ (prepossession!), ‘illusions
of the eye and the ear,’ etc He explains table-moving philosophi¬
cally, such table-moving as a servant maid practises when she dusts a
table ; but beyond that—moving tables without touching them—his
philosophy extends not, and therefore he settles that question thus (just
as Dr. Carpenter does!)—‘ It is with difficulty we can bring ourselves to
notice the extravagance of those who maintain that tables have moved at
the will of an individual at a distance from him.’ ”
Like the Bourbons, Dr. Carpenter learns nothing, forgets
nothing. He stands, in relation to the great facts of Spirit¬
ualism, just where Faraday and Brewster stood years ago.
Not a step in advance has he taken. The great unparalleled
movement, now in its twenty-eighth year, which, under the
name of Modern Spiritualism, has gone on multiplying its
marvellous facts, and winning countless thousands of in¬
telligent persons to a belief in the spiritual origin of those
facts is still, for him, nothing but the “prevalence of an
epidemic delusion.” Rather a long prevalence for an
epidemic, it might be objected I But philosophers must not
be held to too strict an account for their terminology.
“ Prepossession” is defined by Webster “ the preoccupa¬
tion of the mind by an opinion, or impression, already
formed;” and by “prepossession” Dr. Carpenter would
explain the curious circumstance that so much respectable
testimony comes to us from the four quarters of the globe in
confirmation of the marvels of levitation and movement
without touch, now ranked among the minor phenomena of
Spiritualism. He is even so far a laudator temporis acti as
to fall back on Faraday’s test, wholly inapplicable as it was
the moment the table moving without touch began, and now
consigned by every intelligent investigator to the limbo of
exploded theories.
But Dr. Carpenter cannot get it out of his head that the
test has not been superseded. With a gravity and confidence
simply ludicrous to those who know the facts, he says : “It
is still asserted that the validity of Faraday’s test is com¬
pletely disproved by the conviction of the performers that
they do not exert any such agency, all that this proves being
that they are not conscious of such exertion—which, to the
physiologist, affords no proof whatever that they are not
making it.”
That is to say, the declaration of twelve or more honest
men that they saw a table rise independently, when they
were all standing at some distance from it, must be set aside
as worthless, because the fact “ lies beyond the existing
knowledge” of Dr. Carpenter and others, and is in “ direct
contrariety to it.”
If this reasoning were true—if it were not presumptuous,
sophistical, and corrupt—then no testimony could be given
in our courts of justice that might not be invalidated by an
adroit “physiologist.” If, in science and logic, Dr. Car¬
penter’s a, priori notion of what is possible in nature is to
annihilate the force of the testimony of such physiologists
as Ashburner, Gully, and Gray, or of such physicists as
Hare, Crookes, and Wallace, and of competent witnesses
innumerable, then must we remain content with such truths
only as are agreeable or probqble to our united conceptions.
We must not hope for progress.
Dr. Carpenter would have us discriminate between “ the
testimony of our senses and that of our sense.” A pretty
antithesis, but it means nothing in this connection. If it is
to our common sense he would appeal, that is precisely the
ground on which we would like to meet him.
He graciously concedes that he does not “question that Mr.
jl uf xrf lljt} mb df jlpijjiitidfottb
Volume Eiqht. Kumber Seven.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18th, 1876.
DR. CARPENTER ON “ PREPOSSESSION.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 18, 1876.
Crookes is thoroughly honest when he says he has repeatedly i
witnessed the levitation of the human body.” (“ An honest j
man, sir, honest as the skin between his brows, but he will |
be talking!”) <c I can ^regard his statements,” continues I
Dr. Carpenter, “ in no other light than as evidence of the |
degree in which certain minds are led by the influence of |
strong prepossession, to believe in the creations of their own
visual imaginations.”
There'is no coolness like the coolness of ignorance, it is so ]
charmingly unconscious! But what an imposition on our |
common sense is all this prattle of a prepossession !” Let |i
me recur to my own case. Was I a prepossessed ” in their
favour when I first became convinced of the actuality of h
these physical phenomena? On the contrary ; I was strongly I]
prepossessed against them. Like Deleuze, who, as far back Jl
as 1836, when Billot wrote him that he had both seen and ij
felt the spirits, said, “I cannot conceive how spiritual j{
beings are able to carry material objects,” I, too, held j
opinions strongly adverse to the supposition. And yet the ij
phenomena were forced upon my unwilling convictions by Ij
the mere stress of irresistible facts, under conditions per- |j
fectly satisfactory to that “sense” which Dr. Carpenter j
would have us discriminate from our “ senses.” I
I believe that thousands of investigators could give the i
same testimony as I do on this subject of “prepossession.” !
How many, from a state of positive incredulity and I
opposition, have been converted ? Where was the prepos- j
session in their case ? And how often have students of the I
phenomena remarked that, wonderful as these may have I
been, their pulses have not been quickened thereby, nor j
their surprise been of a character to unsteady their senses or I
their nerves in the least. The absence of excitement on j
these occasions is indeed something that has often been j
not the least astonishing part of a successful seance. I
One word as to what Dr. Carpenter says of the Davenport |
Brothers. He tells us that “ their tricks have been not I
merely imitated but surpassed by Messrs. Cooke and Mas- j
kelyne.” I have never witnessed the performance of I
these jugglers, but if they do anything' that experts in f|
jugglery cannot explain, the probability is that they do it I
through some co-operating medium, assisted by a low order !
of spirits. They have been repeatedly challenged to produce I
the mediumistic phenomena under conditions, acceptable to i
genuine mediums, but have never, 1 believe, found it con- j
venient to comply with the terms of the challenge. There |
have been plenty of instances in America where mediums j
have attempted to pass off the phenomena of Spiritualism as I
their own skilful jugglery; and in the East this is, I suppose, I
a common occurrence. |
The notion of Dr. Carpenter, that because he has compiled j
a number of useful works on physiology, and has perhaps I
had his share of experience in the science, he therefore pos- jj
sesses “ a trained and organised common sense ” (his own I
expression) which gives him an advantage over a large j
number of men of various occupations, lawyers, mechanics, I
artists, electricians, merchants and chemists, in estimating j
certain peculiar facts of which he is plainly ignorant, but on j
which, as coming within the range of physiological inquiry, j
he presumes to sit in judgment, is one of those fallacious I
pretensions which we are all of us too apt to accept without j
proper question and scrutiny. j
It was a saying of Sala, that if a man would stand at the j
corner of the streets, and keep bawling “ I’m a genius! I’m ji
a genius! ” there would be a plenty of people who |
would end by believing him. And so in regard to the pheno- I
mena of Spiritualism; we have heard it so often repeated ||
that only a physiologist like Dr Carpenter, “ fully acquainted I
with the numerous and varied sources of fallacy which attend
this particular department of inquiry ” can judge of them,
that some worthy people have ended by taking it for granted
that his claim must be valid.
But what is there in the facts which a keen-witted, sharp-
eyed artisan or detective is not as competent as any member
of the Royal Academy to investigate ? Dr. Carpenter would
come to a seance prepossessed with his pet theories of “ pre¬
possession ” and “ unconscious cerebration,” and he would
a determination not to be humbugged, would keep his eyes
open and his suspicions awake, and without any theory for or
against to provide for, would, if he repeated his experiments
often enough, be likely to arrive at a fair and truthful con¬
clusion. The phenomena are not such as Dr. Carpenter is
any better qualified to decide on than thousands of intel¬
ligent men and women, who, if they have no preconceived
theory, and cannot boast of a diploma, have yet “a trained
and organised common sense ” to keep them on their guard
against being fooled. Dr. Carpenter seems to take it for
granted that all investigators who have admitted the facts
are “ prepossessed ” imbeciles.
In reference to a hasty opinion on Spiritualism, in which
the late excellent Sir Benjamin Brodie once indulged, the
Spiritual Magazine remarked : “ What are we to say when
a President of the Royal Society, and a high medical
authority, expresses publicly an opinion upon a subject of
the elementary facts of which he is entirely ignorant ? ”
All who know the facts will see that the same question
may be justly put in reference to all that Dr. Carpenter has
said on the same subject.
Boston, U.S., Feb. 1st, 1876.
SOUL AND SPIRIT.
We have received the following letter:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist^
Sir,—The letters of “ M. A. Cantab,” and of M M. A. Oxon,” on this
topic are most interesting, and the definition of the latter is excellent.
“ Within this spirit body dwells the soul, that temporarily segregated
portion of the divine mind, by virtue of the possession of which man is
immortal, and is a potential sharer in the attributes of Deity. This soul
is given at incarnation ; and not till it becomes possessed of it is the spirit
immortal."
But, I would ask, is the soul given at incarnation ? We know that
the body of the embryo infant is much developed before it is
“ quickened.” Is it not so with the intelligence, which has to be deve¬
loped to some extent before the immortal soul can be quickened in it ?
As the intellectual faculties (which constitute a sensible child as com¬
pared with an idiot) are gradually grown and developed, and exercised
after birth, so I understand that the infinitely more subtle immortal
soul is gradually developed and born into the spirit body, which spirit
body has been made, and to a certain degree developed, in the young
material body.
The signs of the existence of this soul are an instinctive love of good,
and hatred of evil, i.e., the possession of a moral sense, quite inde¬
pendent of that external law which even a dog can learn by the accom¬
paniment of rewards and punishments. To feel the beauty of holiness,
and to perceive an undying principle amid transitory life are proofs
that we have been born the second time, and that we have passed from
death to life; that we possess a sense which will not die with the
body, and that we are “ potential sharers in the attributes of Deity.”
But if, unfortunately, this germ is in some person either not im¬
planted or not developed, or if conscience be killed, and with it the
soul germ, then the spirit body contains not its destined immortal
guest, and therefore becomes gradually extinguished after death, re¬
solving itself back into the spirit elements, as the earth body does to
its physical elements.
This natural psychic law seems to have been known to those who
wrote of “ the second death,” of “ trees whose fruit withered, of wander¬
ing stars, to whom it reserved the blackness of darkness for ever.” It
is absolute extinction of individuality ; it is not corrective pain; it is
simple extinction ; a less painful fate than that of the multitude who
have had a conscience, whose immortal soul has been generated, but
suppressed, during mortal life, and whose progressive destiny will take
them through purifying fires, and who will suffer from “ the worm
that dieth not.”
Is it not probable that some of the elementary spirits of an evil type
are those spirit bodies which, only recently disembodied, are on the eve
of an eternal dissolution, and which continue their temporary existence
only by vampiring those still in the flesh. They had existence ; they
never attained to being. I think our lunatic asylums furnish certain
half-witted, yet cunning creatures, who possess only the elementary
spirit within “ a fluctuating mass of atoms,” and evidently have not
even the germ of the higher and immortal soul.
It must be remembered that the most gifted of seers, prophets, and
mediums, reveal only the things of the spirit. The soul is not to be
unveiled nor expressed, save in those deep, yet simple impulses of
loving God with all our heart, and our neighbour as ourself. And my
ijj divergence from M. A. Oxon is only on his words that the soul is given
'j at incarnation. I rather think it is the object of passing through
11 material existence that the hitherto elementary spirit by alliance with
>! a body of inherited powers of intelligence—should, while without
ij body, generate and develope the higher principle—the immortal soul—
] so as to attain to what it never before possessed—a death-surviving
immortality. G. T. C. M.
“ M.A. Oxon,” writes upon the above subject:—
“ The short letter in which I attempted to put into pre-
Feb. 18, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
75
cise words the views on this subject which are embodied in
Spirit Teachings has called forth several replies. Some of
my correspondents discuss elaborately the nature of soul and
spirit, even of the Great Spirit Himself; but as they do not
define their terms, the result on my mind is to render con¬
fusion worse confounded. The letter printed by Mr. Fitz¬
Gerald suggests the use of1 spirit’ for what is in my letter
called ‘ soul.’ There can be no objection, so far as I see, to
the use of either word, provided only that care is taken to
use it always in the same sense. This is by no means the
case in all writers on ‘ Scriptural psychology.’ As might be
expected from men who had received no exact mental
training, they use language more or less loosely. If we
had to invent our terminology, it would be well to use some
such expressions as l physical body,’ 1 spiritual body,’ and
(soul.’ As most men (I think) understand by soul the
immortal principle in man, it seems to be convenient to
keep to 'S body,’ ‘ spirit,’ ‘ soul,’ remembering that we can
only observe the operations of the two former, and that we
take the existence of the latter on faith alone.
SPECULATIVE QUESTIONS AND SPIRIT COMMUNICATIONS.
<{ Most of my correspondents raise points which either can
be settled only by a dogmatic ex cathedra decision, such as
no man should venture to give, or are such as transcend
human knowledge. Speculation is usually fruitless; but in
theology it is positively futile. That which, in the nature
of things, is unknowable, and beyond the reach of our
faculties in their present stage of development, should
surely be left untouched as one of ‘ the secret things which
belong to the Lord our God,’ which eternity may unravel.
Yet such are made the subject of frequent questions to com¬
municating spirits. No matter of what degree of intelli¬
gence and progression in the spirit, he is apparently assumed
to know all mysteries. The most abstruse questions are pro¬
pounded, and of course the most foolish and contradictory
answers are received.
il Perhaps the spirit has but lately left a bodily life of
ignorance and vice, yet he must discourse on philosophies
and religious systems, on the nature of God and the mystery
of evil. Or he has been cramped all his life within the iron
bonds of some form of dogmatic sectarianism, yet he is
expected to have thrown aside the character that he has been
building up all his life, and to be an impartial revealer of
the Eternal Verities. Simply, it cannot be: and to ask such
questions is to foster delusion and invite contradiction. As
well ask the first farm labourer you meet about the Baconian
philosophy, or question a child about metaphysics.
“ Among many fruitful causes of error and contradiction
in messages that come from the spirit-world to us, I believe
this is among the most prolific. I wish I could see any hope
of its being diminished.
USELESSNESS OF MINUTE DISCUSSION ON ABSTRUSE POINTS.
“ A minor error, ending in waste of time and much fruit¬
less ink shed, is to debate such questions as the origin of the
soul and its final destiny, at length and with minuteness of
detail. Few can put with sufficient precision the ideas which,
in dealing with such matters, must almost necessarily be
vague. The letter of ‘ G. T. C. M.’ is an exception, and
deals very precisely with a subject on which few have thought
very deeply. Coming from the pen of an old and expe¬
rienced Spiritualist, who has given much time and thought
to the deeper questions which underlie the subject, it is de¬
serving of all attention. If I do not enter on an elaborate
discussion of the minute points of difference between the
writer and myself, it is only because, not being responsible
for the opinions stated in Spirit Teachings, I prefer to seek a
reply from the source whence the teaching came. The state¬
ments of the Occultists, while in my judgment of great im¬
portance, I do not feel competent to defend at length. I
know too little as yet, though increasing knowledge shows
me much that throws on some problems of Spiritualism a
much-needed light. That that light is unwelcome to many
is unfortunately true. Exclusive attention to phenomena,
and disregard of the philosophy of Spiritualism have pro¬
duced precisely the effect that might be expected. Men have
not learned to “discern spirits.” They see (or think they
see) fraud, and they do not hesitate to put it down to the
most obvious source—the medium. Doubt and distrust
creep in, and the very atmosphere, surcharged with suspicion,
invites the presence of suspicious agencies. I believe that
we shall never eliminate this source of danger until we learn
that much of the fraud comes from the other side, and is
directly chargeable on the spirits who communicate. I
believe further that one of the most important points to
which our attention can be given is to acquire knowledge of
the intelligences who do communicate, and of the con¬
ditions under which we may secure trustworthy messages
from spirits not deceptive and unprogressed. No student of
the subject can fail to see that much which now passes under
the name of spiritual communication must, if it be indeed
spirit message at all, come from a source which is undesir¬
able, or else is distorted in transmission until its value
is lost.
ELEMENTARY SPIRITS.
“ Do all messages come from the ascended spirits of
humanity, or are there others who can mock us, play with
our vanity, trifle with our curiosity, delude and ‘ fool us to
the top of our bent ?’ Surely this is a question worth ask¬
ing: and I agree with Mrs. Hardinge-Britten, in the last of
her valuable papers on Spiritual Philosophy, quoted from the
Banner of Light in the last number of this journal, that it is
better to guard against fanaticism and possible delusion than
‘ to raise danger signals, and warn off the searching soul
from any shore where the results of patient and faithful in¬
vestigation might enlarge the borders of our spiritual per¬
ceptions, and teach us more of what we are, and by whom
and what surrounded.’ Those are noble words, worthy of
the hand that wrote them.
“ The same correspondent whose letter heads this article
writes me this :—
Since writing the letter yesterday (on the spur of the moment) reflec¬
tion has shown me that my little point of difference from you on the
soul being given at incarnation, is beside the question now at issue in
The Spiritualist, which is on elementary spirits, so that I do not expect
you will think of printing my lucubrations. My sister wishes me to
tell you that we have had more than one “ communication ” alluding to
these creatures, who are harmless and pleasant as a pet dog or cat, if
kept in their proper place, and as troublesome and domineering as a
pet animal, if not kept in order. I am greatly interested in the question,
and hope it will be carried on in The Spiritualist. Don’t you think this
atomic principle as recognised in our physical bodies, is applicable to
the now growing psychic body? That both bodies are fluctuating
aggregations of atoms, the one of material atoms, the other of thought
atoms, the latter forming the spiritual world ?
Do look at “ The Gnostics,” in The Spectator, for 5th Feb. 1876. . .
“ The Demiurgus was a merely natural (psychic) being, his creature
man was a spiritual being. . . .. The psychical man is his creature
entirely, but that in man which is spiritual belongs to a higher being,
and lies in that natural creation awaiting the full development which
is to fit it for a higher sphere .... Thus man is threefold--an
earthly body from the realm of blind matter; a psychic or natural
soul (the sole produce of the Demiurgus) and the spiritual principle.”
So the Gnostics made the same distinction that you so clearly made
in your letter in the last Spiritualist. To me it seems that in
the eternal evolution of “ life or spirit,” it progresses
through all matter, gaining in its last stage (before it can be¬
come human) a certain degree of individuality, so that a personal
“ Poltergeist,” or individual imp may make itself recognisable to us ; it
may, and probably does, possess some one human quality—of an in¬
ferior type—such as vanity or acquisitiveness. But most of us get on
the wrong tack from thinking that we and every other embodiment of
life are permanent individualities; whereas we are aggregations of
matter and spirit, perpetually fluctuating ; soul being‘the only real in¬
dividuality, and memory is no proof of individuality, for it is induration
on the psychic brain of impressions.
You doubtless have experienced that the soul has no memory ; it is
knowledge, it is perception. Just as the higher spirits do not talk of
feeling happy, they “ are a joy.” “lam music now,” said a music-
enjoying spirit to us after her death.
Recurring to elementary spirits how beautifull it will be if it turn
out that they are waiting for incarnation to turn themselves (Undine¬
like) into immortal beings! How completely in accordance with all
principles of perpetual upward development.
“ So that the notion, so old yet so new to most, is not
confined to those whose names are most associated with it in
America. The notion that these elementaries are waiting for
incarnation is that which is affirmed by the Occultists.
Substantially they say that spirit passes through various
stages of progression until it arrives at the condition of
1 rudimental man,’ endowed with all the mental but with
none of the moral qualities of humanity. It has no soul,
and so no conscience. That comes at incarnation by the in¬
breathing of the Divine Breath, and not till then is the
heritage of immortality given. The elementaries have im-
76 THE SPIBITUALIST. Feb. 18, 1876.
perfect wills, and can be easily guided by an immortal man, i
i.e., by one born on this or other inhabited earths, and so j
endued with superior faculties. They assert, further, that
they do interfere very materially in the affairs of our world, j(
and are the authors of many of the lower phenomena of
Spiritualism. Every careful observer must have noticed in |
circles constituted without any due regard to conditions, a j(
class of manifestations which may be described as Puck-like ji
freaks, or the gambols of an unembodied entity, destitute of ;
moral consciousness, mischievous rather than distinctly evil. |
Such can hardly be referred to the action of undeveloped ;
human spirits, for the tricks are not such as a man, how- jj
ever uneducated or foolish, would be likely to do. They j
leave on the mind a distinct sense of being referable to a I
source not human. These, say the Occultists, are the pranks jj
of the elementaries. They will plague those who allow jj
themselves to be plagued ; but they are the servants, i
obedient helpers of those who know their power, and will j|
command them. And through it all, they themselves are j
progressing onwards to that phase of incarnation when j
they shall become (living souls.’ j
“Is it so? If it be, much light is thrown on vexed jj
questions. If it be, man needs to know it, not to shirk j
it, and as Mrs. Britten says—scream ‘ We know enough, j
We will stop our ears for fear we should hear too much.’ j
If it be, then the grand theory of evolution applies to all i
created things; and God is consistent with Himself in all j
spheres of His action. Man, by virtue of his immor- jj
tality, is the lord of these inferior spirits, and when he j
knows his power, is in possession of the key to the i
secrets of nature which the Ancients had, and which we j
have lost. ' K
“ If it be only a dream, well ; it will pass away, and i
we shall none of us be any worse for having swept away j
some of the cobwebs which from earliest days till now j
have hung about the subject of the intercourse between j
earth and that which has been thought to lie beyond it. For j
myself, I only say that the dream has one merit that j
dreams generally lack; it is very vraisemblable and coherent.” j
"HAFED, PEINCE OF PERSIA.” j
A book having the above title has recently been published j
in London and Glasgow. It consists of drawings and mes- ;
sages given through the mediumship of Mr. JDuguid, of j
Glasgow, and sometimes under test conditions, that is to j|
say, under conditions rendering it impossible for him to have j j
produced them by artificial means. Mr. Nisbet, of Glasgow, i j
has published them in book form, certifying only to the j)
method by which they had been given, and holding himself jj
not responsible in any way for the productions themselves, j
Nor was caution unnecessary, for the book is full of inaccu- j
rate statements relating both to history and to science. It j
says that the nearer to the sun the less is the heat, also that i
the spots on the sun are fixed; every schoolboy of course jj
knows better.
We have received the following letters :— jj
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.'' i
Sir,—Under the title of Hafed, Prince of Persia, Mr. Nisbet, of |
Glasgow, has published a volume in which are several fac-similes of j
drawings and paintings, said to have been given direct by the spirits ij
Ruisdal and Steen, through the mediumship of David Duguid. Are you
aware of the fact that several of these pictures are, as they seem to me, ij
more or less copies, some of them line for line, of illustrations by living j
artists, which appear in Cassell’s Bible, and, if so, can you or any of i
j out readers favour me with an explanation ? E. Dawson Rogers. jj
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist^ \
Sir,—The following is a clerical criticism of Hafed :— ij
“ If Hafed’s memory of his life in the flesh be not ‘ a mere product ij
of the imagination ’ (p. 500), sacred and profane history and geography ij
will have to be re-written. It is quite a new thing to hear of Venice ij
existing as a well-known seaport at the commencement of the Chris- jj
tian era (p. 190) ; Koroom in Greece, whose church afterwards rose to ij
he a great one (p. 190-2), but alike unknown in secular and ecclesiastical ; j
history; ‘ Corinth still a republic ’ (p. 69) about 130 years after it had jj
become the capital of a Roman province; Homer ‘ a dramatist for the ij
Greek stage ’ (p. 70); Persia tributary to Rome at the time of the birth ij
of our Lord (p. 133) ; all these and a hundred others, are instances of ij
the contradictions between Prince Hafed’s histoiy and history as it has ij
been hitherto written and received in this material world. 1 Non nostrum jj
est tantas compohere Hies '; but I think on the whole I am aaore inclined jj
to trust the fleshly witnesses than the spiritual.” Z, jj
What is the explanation of this ? It belongs to the same
class of cases as that in which Mrs. Everitt once obtained
by direct spirit writing, a communication about the habits of
Chinamen, and which was afterwards proved to have been
copied verbatim from one of the letters from China of a
special correspondent of The Times. Many of the spirits
who produce physical manifestations are tricky and untrust¬
worthy, as we have often pointed out, and five-sixths of the
scrapes into which their human instruments fall, are proba¬
bly due to the deeds of the spirits themselves, and not to the
mediums who have to bear the brunt thereof. As the physi¬
cal power departs altogether from a medium, and as healing,
trance, and clairvoyant powers gain the ascendant, so do the
quality and purity of messages increase.
This explanation will not be believed by the outside public,
though it is probably true. We know nothing personally of
Mr. Nisbet, but he bears the name among those who know
him, of one who would not for an instant lend himself to
any deception, and the mediumship of Mr. Duguid has been
so well tested, as to prove that he is frequently under the
control of abnormal powers. The question is—Who and
what are the beings who do these things ?
CONCERNING DESCRIPTIONS OF THE SPIRIT WORLD.
BT ONE WHO IS IN IT.
When you breathe the balmy air on a beautiful morning,
try to imagine it entering your spiritual being through the
spiritual lungs, and exhilarating you with a glorious feeling
of renewed life and unity with God, and you will do more
towards obtaining some faint foreshadow of life here than
if I were to give you a thousand detailed descriptions of our
existence. The details are meaningless to you, because we
strip them of all meaning of necessity by translating them
into earthly correspondences. I have often said that one of
the great errors which people are ready to commit is that of
imagining that they can be taught more readily from another
world. They cannot. The world they are in is the perfect
school for them. It is full of A B C, of words of three
syllables—and, for the seers and sages, of complete sen¬
tences which God has written for them on the face of the
earth and in the heart of man. Learn your ABC, and then
form it into combinations which appeal to the highest part
of your nature. So will you progress. Here we live amid
a state of things which is an enlargement of your life. But
how can we describe to you an enlargement of that which
you do not already understand ? How explain the growth of
a small tree into a large tree to a person who has never been
capable of grasping the fact of a tree ? Yet that is what
spirits try to do who give descriptions of this life to earth-
dwellers. Swedenborg repels the natural mind, because he
describes his own visions in plain language. Try not to repel,
and you only become clouded with a score of useless and un¬
meaning words. No. Learn the ABC, and form your simple
words from them. Then you will of necessity and by nature
find the Book of Life open before you, and that holy and
unerring part of your nature in which God lives will guide
your hand to turn the page, and lead your mind to the
pastures whereon it should feed. Man’s own actions lead
him into the pastures upon which his mind feeds, and in a
higher state you will move of yourself among these higher
spheres, instead of straining for broken words and misin¬
terpreted sentences from another world.
You must not misunderstand me, and suppose that I mean
spiritual truths should not be impressed upon the mind of
man whenever God opens the gates for us. That is com¬
munication of a different order. He permits a flood of light
to break upon the world sometimes when the life of man is
sinking too utterly. A few gleams are reaching you now,
you earth-dwellers ; and God forbid that I, one of the
workers, should disparage any of that which we have power
to impart. No. What I say is, use your opportunities
wisely. I see that our languages have a common vocabulary
for certain forms of spiritual life—those of which you are
cognisant while still in the body. Of these we can speak,
and can thus help you that look up. Those that look not up
it is permitted to rouse by a coarser mode of demonst’’ation.
But what I have learnt to condemn is the attempt to
Feb. 18, 1876
THE SPIRITUALIST,
77
describe our life here and its surroundings. Telling of our
life to you is like a man trying to talk to an animal. If he
says, I eat and drink, the animal would think him just like
himself; if he says I read, I think, the animal cannot take
it in. We do a thousand and one things, and may be able
to tell you the one. One of the things we have been able to
tell you is that we do mission work, so some of your people
have been given the idea that we are always on missions !
We have, besides, a life of our own, a million times more
intense than when on earth . . . delights that words cannot
convey to you. [M. K. C.]
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
Me. W. H. Harrison has received the following letter :—
'I'o Mr. Harrison.
Paris, Feb. 11th, 1876.
Sir,—The High Court decided, last Monday, that I am a
great criminal by confirming the sentence of the two former
tribunals.
I am, therefore, about to face a terrible trial, and to re¬
visit the sad walls of Mazas.
But I look forward to it with a brave heart, knowing that
truth has need of sacrifices, even in the person of her
humblest votaries. I shall remain there almost cheerfully,
in spite of the extreme wretchedness of these modern
bastilles, since the Spiritualists have grasped hands with the
Spiritists in true brotherly union, a very significant fact in
these troubled times.
We are now awaiting your lists of signature, pleading in
terms of wise discretion for liberty for the prisoner.
Please convey my thanks to all who have taken part in
the good cause in Great Britain. This step will bring its
own reward.—Your devoted and grateful friend,
P. G. Leymarie.
A SPIRIT MESSAGE.
The following message was given to a lady through writing medium-
ship :—
“ How little do you, shut in by the walls of flesh, understand the
momentous values of your earthly relations! You rejoice over the
things which constitute your greatest dangers; you weep over those
which bring you the greatest blessings; you neglect—in the stranger, the
importunate or troublesome claimant of a kindness which, in your
shortsightedness, you are often unwilling to bestow—the opportunity
accorded to you by the over-rulers of carrying on, or perhaps of com¬
mencing, the transmutation of hostility into kindness, which each of
you must fully effect before you can quit your present material sojourn
for a higher planet.
“ Remember this great truth; one of the many truths wrapped up in
the all-embracing assertion of the Great Teacher that the love of God
and of the neighbour is the fulfilling of the law and of the pro¬
phets, of duty and of aspiration. Failure to follow the Divine law of
love has brought you all into the sorrows of humanisation; the gradual
acquisition of the power of loving will take you all back to the radiant
existence from which you have lapsed.
“ Do not lose sight of the fact that the earthly life is, above all
things, an occasion for the exercise of kindness. All its other condi¬
tions are only valuable as they furnish occasions for the acquisition of
this quality, the golden key that opens, for ever, higher and higher
habitations for each ascending soul. No other result weighs in the
eternal scales; no other test is applied by the guardians of those
habitations.
“ In the lower phases of your reformatory career, it is to the soul
that has loved much that much is forgiven; in the higher realms of
existence to which you will progressively attain, it is always the degree
of unselfish devotion arrived at by each spirit that correspondentially
produces the degree of splendour and happiness to which it is admitted.
All spirits, incarnate and disincarnate, are equally the handiwork of
the Highest; let the aim of your life therefore be to spread light
and sunshine wherever your radiation can penetrate. Remember that
there is more joy in heaven over one repenting and returning prodigal
than over the ninety-nine that need no repentance, and try to illumi¬
nate your earthly path with the reflex of that purest of celestial joys.—
URIEL.,,
Messes. Colby and Rich, of the Banner of Light, have asked us to
republish from their journal of the 29th January, a long description of
Mr. Burns’s business dealings with them. We do not desire to transfer
such inharmonious matter to these pages.
The lists of signatures to the French Memorial in favour of Ley-
marie’s innocence, numbering over eight hundred names, forming a
long scroll attached to the petition, have been given into the charge of
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, who leaves for Paris on Monday next. Some of
the sheets in circulation for signatures have not been sent in. If re¬
turned to Miss Kislingbury, they will be forwarded at once by post to
Mr. Gledstanes.
TEE DOPPELGANGER OR DOUBLE.
A SriRITUAL COMMUNICATION GIVEN THROUGH THE MEDIUMSHIP OF THE
BARONESS ADELMA VON VAY.
The question of the appearance of doubles being at present fre¬
quently discussed in spiritual circles, we should like to give you our
views on the subject. When a spirit becomes incarnated, and lives on
the earth as man, a so-called guardian spirit accompanies him, who be¬
comes likewise, to a certain extent, incarnated with him. The child is
born into the flesh, the guardian spirit dwells in the perisprit or nerve-
aura, and takes a form exactly similar to that of its medium, or foster-
child. This guardian is the double or twin-spirit of the incarnated
spirit of the man. In this way every man has with him a living, ever-
abiding facsimile, a protecting spirit, who is inseparable from him.
This double stands on a higher spiritual grade than the man himself—
he accompanies him, guides him, warns him ; both are united by a
psychic band. In the legends of the saints you may have read how such
doubles have performed their earthly duties, while the said saints were
rapt in the ecstasy of prayer. It is said that St. Isidore, a husbandman,
was praying in the field, and when, after three hour’s devotion, he was
about to renew his', work, he found an angel guiding the oxen in the
plough. His double had accomplished the labour for him. There are
many such accounts. Some persons see themselves, that is, their own
double, or accompanying spirit, and even converse with it. Cagliostro,
some mediums, and even those without any special medial gifts, have
been seen to appear in distant places, while they were quietly at home ;
this happens by the attraction of certain spirits, who are able to take on
the form of the person in question.
Persons of strong mesmeric power, who understand the art of magic,
can draw numbers of doubles around them, and can send them out on
various missions ; but a deep knowledge of magical power is necessary
for this. It is by means of the double that photographs of living
persons are obtained at a distance. The higher spirits, in the spirit
world even, have their protecting guides, or doubles, who can take on
their form, language, and character; and this explains why one and the
same spirit can be in a hundred places at the same time, with a hun¬
dred different mediums. If, in the same teaching, varieties of style
and expression are apparent, it is because these doubles, or represen¬
tatives of the actual spirit, give it the impress of their own minds. It
is possible in this way to cause a double to appear before you, and to
take plaster casts of that form. Adelma, my medium, was photo¬
graphed by Schofft (at Buda-Pest) with her own double. If this sub¬
ject were more studied, it would be possible to make appointments
with your friends’ doubles on certain days. It often happens now that
the spirit of a man himself will wander forth from his body, and then his
double takes his place in his body, while the man wanders about in the
perisprit of the double. You live a twofold life, and there is a twofold
working of life. Two spirits appear as one, though to the clairvoyant
eye both are seen separately. The protecting spirit comes with its
charge to earth, and they are inseparably united during life. In some
instances they are not divided in the life beyond.
Gonobitz, Austria.
A Fair Incendiary.—It is now about twenty years since a young
lady, an only daughter of an ancient and noble house in the north of
Germany, from having been one of the most cheerful girls, became
subject to fits of the deepest melancholy. All the entreaties of her
parents were insufficient to draw from her the reason for it—to their
affection she was quite cold, to their caresses rude; and though society
failed to enliven her, she bore her part in it with a power of venom and
sarcasm that were as strange to her former character as they were
unbecoming her sex and youth. The parents contrived, during her
temporary absence from home, to investigate her writing-desk; but no
indications of a concealed or disappointed passion were to be found,
and it was equally clear that no papers had been removed. The first
news they heard of her was, that the house in which she had been
visiting had been burnt to the ground; that she had been saved with
difficulty; that her room was not in that part of the building where the
fire had commenced ; that her escape had at first been taken for
granted, and that when her door was burst open, she was found still
dressed and seated in her usual melancholy attitude, with her eyes
fixed on the ground. She returned home neither altered in manner nor
changed in demeanour, and as painfully brilliant in conversation when
forced into it. Within two months of her return the house was burned
to the ground, and her mother perished in the flames. She was again
found in the same state as on the former occasion; suffered herself to be
led away without eagerness or resistance; did not alter her deportment
upon hearing the fate of her mother; made no attempt to console her
father; and replied to the condolence of her friends with a bitterness
and scorn almost demoniacal. The father and daughter removed to a
Spa for a change of scene. On the night of her arrival the hotel was in
flames; but this time the fire began in her apartment, for from her window
were the sparks seen first to issue; and again was she found dressed,
seated, and in a reverie. The hotel was the property of the Sovereign
of the little state in which the Spa was situated. An investigation took
place: she was arrested, and at once confessed that on each of the
three occasions she was the culprit; that she could not tell wherefore,
except that she had an irresistible longing to set houses on fire. Each
time she had striven against it as long as she could, and was unable to
withstand the temptation; but this longing first supervened a few weeks
after she had been seized with a sudden depression of spirits ; that she
felt a hatred to all the world, but had strength to refrain from oaths and
curses against it. She is at this moment in a madhouse, where she is
allowed some liberty. She still possesses her memory, her reasoning
powers, and her petulant wit.—News of the World, Jan. 30th.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 18, 1876,
(Komsponuence. j
[Great/••cedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed i)
to those of this journal and its readers.] i J
ERNEST RENAN’S “LIFE OF JESUS.”
Sm,—The following is an interesting passage from Renan’s Life of |)
Jesus in respect to the religion of the Jews. lie says,—“ The Hebrew |!
priest did not differ much from the other priests of antiquity. The :
character which essentially distinguishes Israel among Theocratic people j
is, that its priesthood has always been subordinated to individual in- ||
spiration. Besides its priests, each wandering tribe had its nabi, or n
prophet, a sort of living oracle, who was consulted for the solution of i
obscure questions supposed to require a high degree of clairvoyance, i
The nabis of Israel, organised in groups or schools, had great influence. J i
Defenders of the ancient democratic spirit, enemies of the rich, opposed i
to all political organisation, and to whatever might draw Israel into the |
paths of other nations, they were the true authors of the religious pre- |
emiuence of the Jewish people.” , j
With regard to the alleged miracles of Jesus, M. Renan ignores them j
altogether, and supposes that most of the wonders attributed to Jesus |
never took place, but that the people would not be content without the j
occasional performance of what would appear to them to be miraculous, I
since Jesus soon found, as John bad found before him, that few are j
capable of appreciating high morality or pure spirituality, but ever j
demand to have signs and wonders exhibited to them. Of course, j
modern Spiritualists, as a rule, are not different from the ancient, and j
look to prayers and invocations, and will bend in the ceremonial of a ;
religion, unless the scientific aspect be maintained, which The Spiritualist I
has chiefly sought to inaugurate. I
With regard to the healing powers of Jesus, M. Renan says—“ Scien- :
tific medicine, founded by Greece five centuries before, was, at the time j
of Jesus, unknown to the Jews of Palestine. In such a state of know- j
ledge, the presence of a superior man, treating the diseased with gentle- |
ness, and giving him, by some sensible signs, the assurance of recovery, |
is often a decisive remedy. Who would dare to say that in many cases, i
always excepting certain peculiar injuries, the touch of a superior being i
is not equal to all the resources of pharmacy? The mere pleasure of j
seeing him cures. He gives only a smile, or a hope, but these are not j
in vain.” j
This is all very well, but it is not the life of Jesus as recorded in the !
Bible. M. Renan then proceeds to say that “ Jesus had no more idea h
than his countrymen of a rational medical science; He believed, like j)
everyone else, that healing was to be effected by religious practices, and I
such a belief was perfectly consistent. From the moment that disease ji
was regarded as the punishment of sin (John v. 14; ix. 1; and following j j
34), or as the act of a demon (Matt. ix. 32, 33; xii. 22; Luke xiii. 11, |)
16), and by no means as the result of physical causes, the best phy- | j
sician was the holy man who had power in the supernatural world, jj
Healing was considered a moral act; Jesus, who felt His moral power, i|
would believe Himself specially gifted to heal. Convinced that the |
touching of His robe (Luke viii. 45, 40), the imposition of His hands ii
(Luke iv. 40), did good to the sick, He would have been unfeeling if :j
He had refused, to those who suffered, a solace which it was in His |j
power to bestow. The healing of the sick was considered as one of the j)
signs of the kingdom of God, and was always associated with the j
emancipation of the poor (Matt. xi. 5; xv. 30, 31 ; Luke ix. 1, 2, 6). i)
Both were the signs of the great, revolutioa which was to end in the i)
redress of all impurities.” But one of the species of cure which Jesus ij|
most frequently performed, was exorcism, or the expulsion of demons : ij
believing in evil spirits, but not in the intervention of good ones, or in 0
the return of the spirits of the dead. How this was has yet to be i
explained. Then, it seems to me that the life of Jesus without the jj
miracles is like the play of Hamlet—not without “ Hamlet,” but without i)
the “ Ghost,” on which the whole plot or play turns.
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S. |]
Boulogne-sur-Mei', Feb. 2nd, 1876. :)
reincarnation. j
“ The pamphlet he gives as is not vastly new, 11
Priest Nangle takes up the old cry of the Jew, I {
Who said, when he saw our Lord healing the sick, i j
‘ Oh! that is the work of that crafty Old Nick.’ ” I)
William Hoicill. j J
Sir,—A short article of mine on reincarnation, which appeared in ij
the Spiritual Magazine for December last, has procured me the |j
honour of a cross-tire in that periodical for this month. Its editor meant, j
no doubt, to make amende honorable to his non-reincarnationist readers jj
for having admitted in his paper an argument in favour of the impious ij
doctrine of reincarnation. Mr. Newton Crosland and Mr. William j
Howilt are my chastisers. To the former, who deplores the absence of ij
facts in support of that doctrine, I would say, “ Search dispassionately jj
for them and you will be rewarded.” Besides those which have passed j
unheeded under his own eyes, I might give him a bushel full of facts jj
and evidences to prove the truth of reincarnation. But I abstain, be- ij
cause, in a matter of such importance, no second-hand evidence should ij
be offered or received when the field is open to every one who is seri- jj
ously determined to know the truth. “ Seek, and you shall find; knock, jj
and it shall be opened unto you.” •>«
The fire from the other side is far more serious. Amongst the boasts jj
of Spiritualism stands uppermost its having put an end to that scare- jj
crow which has so long frightened all the inmates of nurseries and jj
washing establishments of the world, and which, after the death of jj
Machiavelli, has gone under the name of Old Nick. Spiritualists jj
thought they had caught the old brute by its horns, cut its tail, clipped j
its claws, and beaten it well into a jelly. It appears, however, they are j
mistaken, and that the common enemy, without a bruise or scar, is still j
amongst us, and up again at his old pranks. Should anyone doubt the j'
fact, let him look at page 59 of the Spiritual Magazine for this month
last paragraph, where one of the oldest Spiritualists in Europe, a man
of vast mind and great erudition (but, fortunately for the world, also a
great poet), informs mankind that its oldest enemy is now busy spread¬
ing about a slimg and venomous new fungus of the genus reincarnation.
What are we to do ? Nothing now seems left to us but to go to the nearest
priest and have the horrible fiend exorcised from amongst us. Luckily,
however, the angels of Emma Hardinge, and those of the holy alliance
of The Medium, and the Spiritual Magazine, are keeping watch, and
will certainly guard us from the designs of the old Nicks who have
spoken or are speaking still through the Conants, the Tappans, the
Fowlers, the Colmans, and a thousand other misinspired seers and
dreamers. It is the old story over again. When argument fails to stop
some advancing truth, there always remains the last resort of Tartarus.
But that this expedient should have been had recourse to by one pro¬
fessing the doctrines of Spiritualism, is something that will astonish
the future compilers of the history of Spiritualism in England. Dear
Brother Howitt, believe me, in speaking of reincarnation, I did not
even dream of converting you, or those connected with the Sph'itual
Magazine, to that grand doctrine. I know that you and they think the
field of Spiritualism fully explored, and that it is time now to rest and
be satisfied. I only speak for those who think with me that “ there are
(yet) more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our
philosophy.”
You believe reincarnation to be an emanation from the bottomless pit,
and I think it is God’s truth and kindly dispensation, without the know¬
ledge of which a Spiritualist will stand in the midst of the innumerable
phenomena of human life with as much intelligence as would display an
Esquimaux in the middle of the reading-room of the British Museum.
It is clear that the matter between us can only be cleared up when we
meet again in Hades or Elysium. Let me press your hand in brotherly
love, and bid you adieu for the present. G. Damiani.
Naples, 8th February, 1876.
WHERE SHALL THE NEXT SPIRITUALIST CONFERENCE BE HELD?
Sir,—The revival by your correspondent, Mr. Markley, of the above
question will, I hope, be sufficient excuse for my again drawing atten¬
tion to Brighton as a suitable place for the Conference.
Spiritualists, like other people, take holidays; a large number visit
Brighton during the summer and autumn months, and many would pro¬
bably arrange their visit so as to be here at that time. I have no doubt that
some of our foreign Spiritualistic friends may be induced to attend if a long
publicity is given. Your correspondent, Mr. Binney, makes a good sug¬
gestion, that the papers should be framed with a view to give informa¬
tion to the public. Where, I would ask, out of London, can you get in
November a more distinguished public to attract than in Brighton ; we
have a local press that has at all times been ready to give publicity to
the movement, more especially the Sussex Daily News. Its columns
have extensively vindicated Spiritualism, and done much good to the
cause. There are plenty of apartments always to be had at reasonable
prices; there is an idea that lodgings are dear here in November, but
that applies only to the large houses in good positions. John Bray.
82, St. James’s-street, Brighton.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.
Sir,—Will you kindly oblige me by inserting in your next issue my
grateful thanks to a friend for his liberal donation of two pounds to aid
our work in this locality, and also for ten shillings and sixpence from
Miss G. Robert Cogman.
15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End-road, E.
THE GOV AN MESMERIC CASE.
Sir,—From the terms of Mr. Redman’s letter in a recent number of
The Spiritualist, it would appear you have not seen Mr. Jackson’s (mes¬
merist) reply, which appeared in the following day’s paper to the one
containing the account of the Govan case. According to Mr. Jackson’s
explanation he did his best to keep the appointment with his subject,
but was directed to the wrong place in making inquiry of a person on
the road. The young man had been at the lecture hall again that same
night, and told the audience that he felt none the worse from the
“ exposure ” ; after being paid for his lost time, he voluntarily took his
place along with other lads on the platform, who had offered themselves
for the night’s entertainment. Mr. Jackson has been in the habit of
making appiintments with his subjects for the last ten or fifteen years
to my knowledge. J. F. C.
11, Washington-street, Glasgow, 19th Jan., 1876.
A POLITICAL PROPHECY.
Sir,—I have just read, in The Spiritualist of February 4th, a letter
from a resident in E linburgh, setting forth that the assassination of
Marshal Prim had been predicted to him by spirits. He signs himself
“ E. B.,” and I have not the honour of his acquaintance. Permit me,
however, to state a curious coincidence. While I was living in London,
in 1872, I made the acquaintance of a Spanish gentleman; he was a
serious man, of advanced age, and was well acquainted with the higher
section of society in Madrid. We lodged together at 21, Queen Anne-
street, and one day began conversing on the subject of Spiritualism.
The Spanish gentleman said that he had not made up his mind upon
the subject, as he had given it little attention, but added that he was
aware of a very curious fact, which he was unable to explain. He said,
“ At the house of a friend of mine, in Madrid, they were in the habit of
invoking spirits by means of talking tables, and, fifteen days before the
assassination of Prim, they received the following message, which was
repeated more than once, and at more than one seance.: * 0 Jean Prim!
Feb. 18, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
O Jean Prim! Yous serez assassine ! ’ ?? This prediction was fulfilled,'
to the great surprise of all those who knew that it had been made. The
Spanish gentleman assured me, upon his word of honour, that this was
a fact, and he related it to all the persons in the house in which we
were boarders. C. Constant,
Milan, February 8th, 1876,
REMARKABLE VERIFICATION OF A SPIRITUAL COMMUNICATION.
Sir,—My friend Count de Bullet has for several years been in the
habit of visiting a writing medium, not professional, nor public, nor
paid, a highly respectable and very religious lady, through whom he
receives frequent communications from spirits known and unknown to
him, and especially from one of a high order, his chief spiritual guide.
I shall call this spirit X.
On the 25th Jan. last, in the midst of a communication to himself
from X on other subjects, it was written to him (and he showed me the
paper), “ A spirit whom I bring to you desires to say something to your
friend. He is a man who lived in ancient times, one of your great
philosophers, a soul who, like you, on the earth sought after truth, but
who, less fortunate, lived in the age whose pagan and depraved man¬
ners (mosurs) were for his eyes a perpetual spectacle of pain,” &c.
The spirit thus introduced (whom I shall call Y) then wrote, begin¬
ning “Y to O’Sullivan.” Now I had not been at all in Bullet’s
thoughts, nor was either my humble name or my existence known to
the medium. Bullet was taken entirely by surprise. The communica¬
tion was of some length. Y stated himself to be my “ guardian angel
referred to my long studies in pursuit of truth, in reference to “ the
great questions which agitate the conscience and torment the sceptical
spirits of men;” and expressed himself as availing himself gladly of
this “ opened door ” for direct access. He announced to me “ the
arrival of a great spirit, a philosopher also, who will give you, from time
to time, some of his sublime maxims, which are for the minds of the
studious long problems for commentation. This spirit by his language
will open to you vast horizons,” &c., &c.
I will not venture to give the names of X and Y. I will only say that
they were both great Christian personages, whose names are to be found
in the New Testament. The communication was very startling, but I
could not possibly believe in its genuineness, from such as Y to such as
my utterly unworthy self; the more so as I had always distrusted the
communications purporting to come from, great historical personages.
Three days afterwards, through the same medium, the Count received
the following: “Publius Sgrus. I am an invisible friend of your
friend, and he whom Y has announced to you. I left a work of
maxims, and I recall one that you may meditate upon it—* Money is
thy slave if thou employest it with wisdom, or thy master if thou doest
otherwise.’ ”
He had not the slightest idea of who was “ Publius Syrus.” Nor
had the medium; and when she had read over what had been scrawled
by her unconscious hand, she had remarked: ” Why, that is not a
name!” He asked me if I knew anything about a “ Publius Syrus.” I
had to confess that I did not; though, after a while, the ghost of a
memory arose in my mind which had been deep-buried under forty
years of oblivion—years crowded with occupations, troubles and cares,
wholly foreign to the classical studies of earlier days. After a few days
of absence from Paris, I went to the Bibliotheque Nationals, and, with
the aid of a clue from Lempriere, easily found out all about him. He
was, indeed, a “ great philosopher,” who lived at Rome in the days of
Julius Caesar, and who died about twenty-nine years B.C., and he had,
indeed, loft a collection of maxims, not only full of wisdom and wit, but
marked also by an austere morality; and among them I found the one
which he had cited to Bullet, expounding it with a slight development
from the intense condensation of the original: “ Pecuniae oportet,
imperes, non scrvias.”
All the maxims left by Publius Syrus (a Syrian freedman of Rome)
were in similar single iambic lines, which are relics from perished
satirical plays, or “ mimes,” preserved embalmed in the public memory,
and in citations by various authors, to whom they were evidently well
known—Cicero, Pliny, Aulus Grellius, Macrobius, Seneca. Indeed,
Seneca has expanded some of his single iambics into moral treatises,
and we know from St. Jerome that as late as four hundred years after
Christ the '* sublime maxims ” of Publius Syrus were still read and
taught in the schools. In his day there was no press, and the stage
was the pulpit scena for popular instruction and for the moral lashing
of an extremely corrupt age. Like Shakespeare, he was at once the
author and actor of his own “ mimes,” and he was long the great
favourite of the Romans, as he was too a protege of Caesar. Even so,
were Shakspeare’s plays to perish (happily, they have the immortality
of print), a collection of citations might be made from popular memory,
embodying much of the pith and marrow of him. Yet I doubt whether
over a thousand of such short, condensed single lines, each a pregnant
moral maxim, could be culled even out of Shakspeare’s pages.
Such was “Publius Syrus,” utterly unknown (I expect) alike to the
medium and to Bullet, and totally forgotten at first by me, yet pre¬
announced by Y, and then, three days after, self-announced by his
name, and by a correct designation of the work which had survived
him, accompanied with an appropriate citation of one of the maxims
contained in it, as I afterwards found at the National Library. Does
not this unexpected verification lend some degree of support to the
presumable genuineness of the startling communication of Y above
referred to, which I cannot allow myself to quote ?
I must add a supplementary circumstance to the above, which
occurred to-day. The Count de Bullet and I have been holding
nearly daily seances with Firman for the past three months; we
alone, watching the slow, difficult, and intermittent revival of his
mediumship, after his “ big upset,” as the “ Little Indian” has called it.
To many, indeed most, of these seances, has come a spirit of a very high
order, named “ Glaucus,” an ancient Roman physician, who stated
himself to be one who “had looked upon the face of him who
preached to the men of Athens,” and-who became a convert to his
teachings at Rome. But for his benevolent and persevering labours (in
mesmerising me, palpably and strongly, and with both hands, and many
a time), I think it likely enough that I should have been at this moment
in the spirit-world, instead of writing about it. We have had many
indications that he is a devout and holy spirit, of an exalted grade. He
has many a time made the sign of the Cross on both of us, on forehead,
chest, and the two shoulders. I have frequently communicated with
him in Latin. The “ Little Indian ” expresses great awe and veneration
of him. He once called it “ fear,” but corrected the word, and explained
that it was something that made him bow his head. I asked him
(Grlaucus) to-day, if he knew the communication to me above-mentioned,
purporting to be from Y. “ Yes.”—“ We are so liable to be deceived
by mocking spirits, to whom nothing is sacred, I beg you to tell me if it
was indeed from Y ?” “Yes,” with solemnity.—“ May I indeed rely
on its genuineness?” “Yes,” emphatically.—“ Was that of ‘ Publius
Syrus’ to the Count also genuine?’ “ Yes.”—“Do you know and asso¬
ciate with him (‘Publius Syrus’) in the spirit-world?” “ Yes.”—“At
the time of your earth-life in Rome, he was not living, but did you then
kuow of him by his writings and the reputation he had left behind ?”
“ Yes,” with three raps of great energy. Then followed some most
lovely and tender demonstrations from Glaucus, which I am loth to
tell; as also from one of the young girl spirits, who placed in my hand,
and then to my lips, a cross, well known to me both by touch and
sight, once given to her by Bullet, and still always worn by her when
she appears in materialisation. (Please understand that I am not a
Catholic, and that that Church in its good old days would have cer¬
tainly burned me.)
Shortly afterwards, Glaucus (referring to my having shown to Bullet
a letter about this Publius Syrus incident, of which this is a condensa¬
tion, and which longer letter Bullet also had signed) asked me :
“Would you like me to sign your letter?” “ Oh, very much!” We
presently went to the cabinet seance, to which John King now comes
regularly and finely, and I placed the sheet on the table, with a pencil
on it. John King held his lamp over and close to it, and by its light
we saw plainly a man’s hand approach the table, take up the pencil,
and write at the foot of the page a capital G (backwards), when the
pencil dropped suddenly, and the light disappeared; but after a minute
or two both returned, and we saw the hand complete the word. The
name stands written “ Gaucus ” (the “1” omitted). He afterwards said
that he was sorry he lost power when trying to write his name, and he
had left out something, but that I would fill up what was wanting.
Glaucus, therefore, whom we have come to know so well, and whom
we have so much reason to love, trust, and revere, has thus further
corroborated the communications of Y and (individuality) of X, and
also that of Publius Syrus. I cannot venture to publish the names for
which these letters are substituted, but I give them to you confiden¬
tially. It is curious that X should have described Y as “ one of your
great philosophers but they lived and began the work which they
seem to still continue before the period of Church canonisations.
I might give you much interesting matter about this course of
seances with Firman and his wife, but am deterred both by my want of
time and yours of space. J. L, O'Sullivan.
Paris, Feb. 6th, 1876.
I fully concur in and attest the correctness of the above letter,
Count. J. de Bullet.
PUBLIUS SYRUS.
Sir,—Referring to what I wrote you last week about Publius Syrus,
I have now to add to it what follows.
I myself visited to-day (introduced by the Count de Bullet) the lady
medium before mentioned, through whose writing had come the re¬
markable communication to the Count from “ Publius Syrus,” a name
totally unknown alike to her and to him, and at first totally forgotten
by me, which communication to Bullet contained a correct indication of
who that spirit had been in the flesh (in the time of Julius Caesar), and
an appropriate citatien from one of the maxims left by him, the correct¬
ness of which I afterwards verified at the Bibliotheque Nationale.
On this occasion I received four communications from as many spirits.
The first purported to come from my “ guardian angel,” and contained
a kind but just reprimand to me. (I can only conceive the possibility
of that exalted spirit being really my “ guardian angel,” on the pre¬
sumption of my being only one among millions towards whom he may
exercise the same function.) The second (from “ Alexandrine,” one of
the fair spirits we are now accustomed to meet daily and often to see
at our seances with the Firmans) involved such clear internal evidence
of genuineness as exists in its perfect vraisemblance or correspondence
with what I might have expected from her, both as from herself and as
on behalf of the little band of friendly spirits for whom she spoke.
The third was from my mother, attesting itself not only by internal
evidence, and by other circumstances, but also by her giving correctly
not only her Christian name and her married name (at least as far as
03, which was enough for me), but also (on my request) her maiden
name as well (which for Bowleg was spelled “ Rouley,” the French
alphabet affording no.double-u, but only the single one). But the fourth
is the one to which I call your attention. It began, “Publius S .”
“Syrus?” I asked, “Yes.” Indeed the “S” after “Publius” was
already enough in connection with the antecedents. He then proceeded
to give the communication given below. The Latin sentence with which
| it begins was given with the laborious slowness of the alphabet spelled
out by the medium. This was all Greek to her, and I had to keep her
up to the alphabetical task by telling her, as it proceeded, that it was
all right, as being good Latin from an old Roman spirit. When that
was completed, her pencil at once began to write at her usual light-
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ning speed in French. When she came to the word “ mimes," however,
she stopped, and said, “ Mimes ! what does that mean ? ” I had to
tell her to go on, that the word was all right, and that I would explain
afterwards. Of course, I had soon recognised the Latin dictum, almost
as familar as that two and two make four, though the form in which it
existed in my mind was, “ Quern Deus vult perdere prim dementat; ”
or in English, “ Him whom the gods wish to destroy they first drive
mad.”
The communication of Publius Syrus was then as follows
“ QCOS PERDERE VULT JUPITER DEMENTAT.
“ Those whom to destroy he wishes, Jupiter makes mad.
“ I employed (pris) formerly in my mimes, the sense of which I have
just given you the text, and you will allow me, now that I have con¬
vinced you of my presence, to employ a more rapid (vif) means of speak¬
ing to you. I made a present of it to the great Caesar, that he might
profit by it, but it was in vain that I repeated to him that to all science
and all glory God puts an end when pride is greater than the good one
produces. He would not heed me. The men of to-day, say, are they
not like Caesar, and can they not every day apply to themselves this
common (vulgari) maxim which the centuries have brought down to
you a little changed, but indeed from me (metis bien de moi)?"
It presently occurred to me to ask Publius Syrus some further
eclaircissement about this familiar dictum, the origin or authorship of
which, so far as I remember, has hitherto been unknown; but no response
came; he had gone, as the medium said was often the case after they
had said what they came to say. I will do so on another opportunity.
This sentence is not in the rhythmical form of all his other maxims which
have come down to us in citation by other authors—what may be the
explanation of that ? And in what Latin author does this maxim first
appear, and where ? And in what others subsequently ? Perhaps the
latter question may be answered by some of your readers better up in
the classics than I am after sqjne thirty or forty years of compulsory
neglect. That the invisible communicating with me was really Publius
Syrus seems pretty well proved by the contents and circumstances of
these two communications from him, one to Bullet and the other to
myself. That he was a favourite and of Julius Caesar is well-
known ; so too that he was a great author of the kind of satirical and
moral dramas called “ mimes.’’ It is quite certain that the medium has
not an idea of Latin. It is curious that he should now announce him¬
self as the (hitherto unknown) author of this maxim. I wonder
whether, in his reference to the men of our day, he had in view
Napoleon III., who wrote a Life of Caesar, and Napoleon I., who was
himself another Caesar; and possibly, if we live long enough to see it,
Bismarck. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, February 12th.
CHARGING ARTICLES WITH MESMERIC INFLUENCE.
Sir,—Towards the close of last year I was very ill, and quite thought
I was dying.
Having heard of Dr. Monck (though I had never seen him), and
being anxious for a communication from a dear one now on “the
other side,” I wrote, begging him to get a message for me if he could.
He replied without delay; but instead of what I longed to get, I
received a loving message and a positive assurance of ultimate and
speedy recovery, from another spirit friend, who wrote, through Dr.
Monck, on a post card. I was told that vital mesmerism, sufficient to
restore me, impregnated this post card. I quickly experienced its
virtue: was able to proceed to Boulogne; although before I received it
I thought my stay on this plane of being was to be very short and
uncertain, yet I seemed to gain marvellous power from the post card.
Every now and then I was impressed to lay it on my poor distracted
head, and I firmly believe that but for the power communicated by it
I should have either “passed away” or become the inmate of an
asylum. At Boulogne I received a second mesmerised card from
him, also a mesmerised letter, which I used in like manner and with
similar benefit. I am even now carrying one of his letters in my
pocket, and it seems to charm away evil, although it renders me very
sensitive to spirit control.
I have a great wish to see one whose very postal cards prove so
great a blessing. I am most desirous of letting the world know these
facts. Will you oblige me by inserting my letter in The Spiritualist,
and please note I am an utter stranger to Dr. Monck, and his services
were rendered me without fee or reward of any kind. I enclose my
address. Sister Agnes.
Cottage Hospital (established 1863, on the Voluntary Nursing Principle),
Walsall, Feb. 2nd, 1876.
[That the power exists of conveying mesmeric influence in small articles,
as in the days when St. Paul sent “ aprons ” to cure the sick, appears to
be gradually being verified in these times.—Ed.]
WHAT SCIENTIFIC MEN SHOULD DO.
Sir,—The following extract is from the pleasant author of “ Friends
in Council,” and I have copied it from 1869 volume of Good Words,
yet in 1876 apparently our leading men of science continue to evince
a marked indifference to the beautiful facts of spirit communion. Truly
“ Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.”
Men who are publicly known as scientific expositors, ought to look
into these palpable facts for the benefit of their pupils, instead of
which they are allowing numbers of obscure, uneducated people to lead
the van, and draw attention to their present progressive phase of de¬
velopment.
“ I wish I could persuade men of science, and men who have peculiar
gifts of investigation and examination, that it would be most desirable
for them, and a worthy employment of their gifts, to examine what, for
want of a better term, we may call spiritual phenomena. Let them re¬
member that to dispel error may be nearly as important as to ascertain
Feb. 18, 1876.
truth. Then let them recollect that almost all great discoveries have
been accompanied by a great deal of quackery and imposture. Let
them think how much these investigations might tend to promote medi¬
cal science. Let them reflect how important a thing it is to investigate
the value of testimony. Let them further reflect what a world of mys¬
tery we live in. Now look at the powers of memory. It is not too
much to say that if the powers of memory, even of a peasant, were
written out in full, the weight alone of the ink would probably be
greater then the weight of the brain that remembers. After this can
they say that any process of the human mind is astonishing ? There
are numbers of statements, apparently well authenticated, in which it
appears that the last thoughts and wishes of a dying person have had
great influence over relatives and friends, divided from these dying per¬
sons by large distances of land and sea. Let us carefully record and
examine into all these statements. It would be an unutterable comfort
to many minds to have it well ascertained that there was any influence
after death of one mind upon another.
“ But I do not rest my case upon these high metaphysical grounds.
I rest it upon three other grounds. First, that in investigating these
so-called spiritual phenomena, we should ascertain more about the law
of evidence; secondly, that we should ascertain whether there are any
powers, forces, or influences, of which we are at present not aware, that
have their place in the creation; and, thirdly, whether disease brings
into operation faculties of hearing, eyesight, or imagination of which
we have at present no adequate conception—medically, m orally, meta¬
physically, or scientifically.
“ These questions demand the most careful investigation from our best
weighers of evidence, and from our most accomplished scientific men.”
W. H. Robinson.
Chester-le-Street,
A NEW LENDING LIBRARY.
Sir,—Will you kindly allow me to state through your journal that
arrangements are now being made by the Library Committee for lending
books from the collection at 38, Great Russell-street. A sum of money
has been voted by the Council towards the expense of increasing the
number of duplicate copies, as one copy of each work will always remain
at the Reading-room, for the use of members, and in order that the
collection there may remain complete. The terms of subscription will
be announced in the National Association Library advertisement, so
soon as the books are ready to send out.
Emily Kislingbury,
Secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists.
THE RELATIONSHIP OP MESMERISM TO SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—The mesmeric experiments at the rooms of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will no doubt excite additional interest in
the mind of every intelligent psychological student: also open up a new
field of inquiry for the Spiritualist. If there is no difference between
mesmeric and spiritual phenomena, supermundane Spiritualism is a
fallacy, and mundane Spiritualism the only reality; but we hold that
the latter is evinced by the power of mind or spirit over mind while in
the flesh, and the former by a disembodied spirit’s power over a spirit in
the body.
Those who admit the possibility and reality of the psychological
control which a mesmeriser exercises over his subject, need not be
alarmed at the assertion of the Spiritualist, that disembodied spirits have
also this power, which they exercise and manifest. After spirits have
left the body they are surely not chained up in some comer of the
universe, unable to manifest their presence or give proof of their con¬
tinued existence. If so, to us it would be as reasonable to assert that
God Himself was incapable of manifesting His power, and of demon¬
strating His spiritual existence. Whatever has an existence in this
world, or the next, must necessarily give proof of that existence. The
mesmerist, by an appeal to experiment, establishes the following facts:—
1st—That there exists a subtle fluid in each individual which connects
his physical to his psychical existence or nature.
2nd—That this supposed fluid can be imparted from each one to each
other.
3rd—That all are not equally capable of imparting, or equally sus¬
ceptible of being its recipient.
4th—That this mesmeric influence is directed and controlled by the
mind or will of each individual; the greater the mesmeric force pos¬
sessed, the more powerful the mental influence exercised over others.
In short, we are dealing with the power of mind over mind. In all
the mesmeric experiments we have witnessed the mesmeriser has had to
make great exertion in exercising his will power to enable him to control
his subjects, and to the extent to which he could throw his own will,
imagination, and feelings into the experiment, to that extent, it appeared
to us, did he succeed upon his subjects. Now, contrast these manifes¬
tations with the trance state as understood by Spiritualists. A mes¬
meric subject is under the influence of the mesmeriser; this power
(whatever it may be) must be exercised before any effect can be
produced. A trance subject must be alike under the control of some
embodied or disembodied spirit influence. The trance subject is invari¬
ably controlled without any conscious effort of his own will force, or
that of others in the flesh; the trance subject is cognisant of an
influence being exerted upon him, which is external to, and apart from,
himself. A mesmeric subject is in an entirely passive condition, being
perfectly inactive until directed by, or operated upon by, the mesmerist.
A trance subject requires no such visible operator; he speaks and acts
without any apparent will force being directed upon him, so far as purely
human influence is concerned. During the trance state the subject is
not under the conscious control of his own will, nor is there proof (that I
am aware of) that he is subject to the combined will or mental force of
Feb. 18, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
81
others in the flesh. Trance subjects when under control assert that
they are the subjects of disembodied spirit influence, and that they have
a consciousness of two distinct individualities. Trance mediums give
proof of a distinct individuality which is always asserted to be the conscious
and intelligent controlling power of a disembodied spirit, and not that of
any human mesmerist, or mesmerists. I submit that if actual experiments
demonstrate the foregoing statements there is a wide difference between
mesmeric and spiritual phenomena. They have recently, in Liverpool,
been discussing the above propositions, but our opponents were utterly
unable to grapple with them satisfactorily, either by argument or
experiment, therefore look with some interest to the course adopted by
the members of the British National Association of Spiritualists upon
this subject. Mesmerism and Spiritualism have each their respective
sphere of operations, and to keep these distinct and furnish indisputable
evidence of their separate existence, has in the present history of our
movement, to my mind a very important significance, and is an absolute
necessity. The age demands proof, not theory; a Spiritualistic theory
is worthless without evidence to substantiate it. There are two or three
points which require solution by experiment, and sound logic in the dis-
sion of this subject, viz :—
1. Is it possible to mesmerise self?
2. Can two or more individuals at one and the same time mesmerise
a subject ?
3. Is the trance state, produced by the conjoint mesmeric or mental
influence of those by whom the subject is immediately surrounded ?
4. If so, why do not the mahifestations give evidence of this varied
combination of controlling influence or united will power, &c. ?
I have no preconceived opinions upon this subject, or favourite
hypothesis to which I am disposed to tenaciously cling; all I seek is a
rational theory which shall harmonise with all the facts of trance
mediumship; if we fail to do this, we fail to support our case. We are on
the affirmative or negative side of Spiritualism. Trance mediums are
either gross impostors, unconscious dupes, or the honest exponents of
some psychological or spiritual influence which we cannot explain by
any known scientific or mesmeric fact or philosophical principle, with¬
out recognising what it professes to be, viz., disembodied spirit influence.
I trust that your columns will be thrown open for a full and free discus¬
sion of this subject for all classes of thinkers, Spiritualists, mesmerists,
and materialists. John Ainsworth.
1, Ranelah-street, Church-street, Liverpool.
February 13th, 1876.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
Sir,—Last Friday night a series of seances for inquirers, inaugurated
six months ago by some of the members of the National Association,
was brought to a close with one of the best circles for ordinary physical
manifestations I have, perhaps, ever attended. The unusually thick
foggy weather, and the lowering of the temperature in the room after
the fire was put out, and the presence of four inquirers, entire strangers to
the circle and to the subject, did not prevent one continuous succession
of raps all over the table, in the light and in the dark, rapid movements
of tubes, a hand-bell, a heavy musical-box, and a light stringed instru¬
ment, which were carried from one sitter to another with marvellous
rapidity. Hands large and small, warm and cold, were felt all round
the circle, and for a few moments the voice of Mr. Williams’s well-
known “John King” was audible, but he did not expend much breath in
talking. The manifestations continued incessantly for nearly an hour
and a half, yet the medium seemed very little fatigued afterwards.
Spirit-lights accompanied the movement of the objects through the air,
and were distinctly seen by all present.
A further series of circles for inquirers will shortly be arranged for by
the Seance Committee of the National Association.
Emilt Kislingbury.
ANGELS, SPIRITS, AND MEN.
Sir,—In your issue of the 14th January, Mr. J. Robinson, of New-
tonheath, asks the question whether amongst so-called “ angels ” that
have communicated at circles, any have professed to be beings never
incarnated into the sphere of matter.
So far as my experience of spirit teaching goes, no spirit has com¬
municated that has not at one time or other passed through an earthly
life. Basing my view on the experience above named, I would say
further, that it is highly doubtful whether an “ angel ” could confer
direct with the sphere of matter, without a very special mission thereto,
or a circle to reach down to that was in itself much elevated above the
average condition of man. A “spirit” might be found to be the j:
medium on the other side for an “ angel,” and so pass a message down, j/
but even with the aid of a spirit of very material tendencies, it would, I | (
gather, be very difficult for an angel to recall and communicate external \S
details of earthly existence. j)
The following passages from spiritual^messages may, perhaps, throw j(
light on the difference between angels, spirits, and men.
“ The word angel is used too indiscriminately ; you have no right to
use it as a general word for all spiritual presences. The spirit who
appears as a man, the walking and talking, is of a different order from
the angel. When we are all in harmony together, and rise in virtue,
then we rise out of our sphere, and into the next a little, it is then that
she [the medium] sees the angels; we have no angels amongst the order
we belong to, but appear as men.”
On another occasion the following words were used in reference to
one of the “ angels ” that had come to the circle as a healer.
“ There is one here whom you have heard of before, who has pene¬
trated in defiance of those that would keep him back The wings
which she [the medium] sees take him through the mist: he is a mes¬
senger in sorrow, and has to penetrate the mist when it is so thick that
he can scarcely breathe or walk, indeed, scarcely live. The mist is the
! state of your atmosphere, and that of those by whom you are sur¬
rounded.”
This would suggest that the wings which some mediums see upon
j certain spirits, or “angels,” are an appearance which signifies the
| power of love that carries them upon missions of mercy into low and
| uncongenial spheres.
i From teachings received from two mediums unconnected with each
| other, the difference between the angel and the spirit would appear to
j be this: that the angel is sexless, or rather bisexed, that is, is com-
I pleted, by the absolute absorption into one of two spirits, that have
found their eternal mates, and become ready for such completion. Thus
the angel stands beyond the limits of a whole range of passions and of
discontents which we appear to share with those spirits who are not
i very far removed from us, and is thereby not only in a higher state, but
enabled to undertake greater work by reason of this completion and
j union of strength and love—this divine duality. K. M. C.
i] P.S.—We have just found the following definition amongst the mes-
'j sages from our friendsAn angel—by which we mean the perfection
|i of what you call a pair.”
1(1 A REMARKABLE SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
ijj Sir,—Ours was a small circle seated round the table holding hands,
j the medium being one of the party. Immediately before seating our-
nl selves the fire had been partially raked out. We heard some one at the
j i grate, and concluded that the operation was being completed by Peter.
i(i At any rate he brought me a live coal, which I took from him, but
|(l dropped immediately, preferring to burn a hole in the table cloth to one
j/j in my hand; he then carried it back to the fireplace. I had taken a
| | friend with me, in the hope of being able to “ show him something,” and
ifj I think he will confess that on this occasion the attempt was not in vain.
|( | It was amusing to hear Peter hitting him as hard as he could with a roll
jy of paper, at the same time saying, “Do you believe now?” I was
II called to account by Peter for what I had said in the last number of this
m journal about his medium. He asked me when the seance I referred to
III took place, as he did not remember the circumstance, and upon telling
m him that it was a year ago he said that it was no wonder that he had
|(| forgotten it. We had an opportunity of seeing him with his lamp as we
|Si sat in the dark circle (still all round the table). He was floating about
ijj over the table. His light is not nearly so clear and bright as John
I) King’s, but still it was sufficiently bright to enable us to see his face,
j which had whiskers and moustaches, but no beard on the chin; his hair
|j| appeared to be dark, and his nose of the Roman type. It seemed as if
in only the upper part of his body was formed; some white stuff
U| was thrown over his head, and it hung down all about him. There
|j| is a little piece of evidence which is, perhaps, not generally known,
in bearing upon the interesting question whether Peter be an ex-mortal or
|\| an elementary spirit, and in favour of the former conclusion. A retired
|(| actor now living in Brighton told me that he used to perform at Astley’s
|(| Theatre at the time when Barry was the clown there. Peter
m declares himself to have been that individual, and his brother actor is
|j| of opinion from conversation he has had with him that such is really
| (i the case. He says that Barry was a disagreeable cantankerous fellow,
111 disliked by every one. The recognition between these two began on
|(| the part of the spirit. Mr. T.’s daughter was at a seance one day when
uj Peter suddenly said to her, “ How is your father ? I hope he is well;
jj| he is an old pal of mine; ask him to come and see me.” He did so,
|(| and told me what I have just written. In the middle of the seance Dr.
! (| Monck came in, and it was his presence, I believe, that enabled the
|j| spirits to float Williams. At any rate his boots touched my head, and
|)| upon standing up I felt that his body was lying horizontally in the air,
|(| with nothing to support it, so this was one more case of levitation of
i j | which so many have been reported at different times. He was finally
.'(! deposited on the table,—I say “ finally” because he seemed to be very
|(i comfortably lying in the air, and in no hurry to come down. By some
!(j mistake a light was prematurely struck, whereupon Peter, in a hurried
ijj voice told us to put it out at once, and all leave the room except Dr.
iU Monck, to enable him to restore the balance of power, or his medium
jjj would be injured. J. H. Gledstanes.
SUGGESTED VISIT OF DR. MONCK TO IRELAND.
Sir,—I have been anxiously watching for some time for the an¬
nouncement of Dr. Monck’s visit to this country. The advent amongst
us of such an excellent medium would be productive of much good to
Spiritualism. I think he might be induced to come. Perhaps some of
our friends in Dublin and Belfast would kindly consider the matter,
with the view of sending him an invitation. J. Kilbraith.
9, Caulfield-place, Newry, Feb. 14th, 1876.
THE BAMFORD BROTHERS IN SOUTHPORT.
Sir,—On the 3rd inst. Mr. Martheze favoured us with a visit, bringing
with him the Bamford boys, and gave us a very good and convincing
test seance in full gaslight. The first test was direct writing on a slate
(the message being written after the pencil had fallen on the floor),
j! telling us to tie Joseph in the bag, after which we had the bells
(| rung, and a finger-ring passed on to the medium’s finger ; the tam-
j| bourine was also violently shaken. Walter was next placed in the
j| bag, each of the mediums being stitched at their wrists, with their hands
j| behind their backs, by the shirt sleeves, and then to the back of the vest,
I and examined by the sitters before entering and after leaving the bag.
The string was next drawn tight round the neck and fastened to the top
| rail of the chair, then passed round to the front spindle, and tied to the
medium’s legs. Almost before we could get the curtains closed the bells
were violently shaken, and also the tambourine; the accordion was next
played, the ring was passed on to the medium’s finger, and a wooden
curtain ring on to the broad part of the hand. The articles used were
82
THE SPIRITUALIST. Fib. 18, 1876.
not brought by the mediums, but were in the room previously. The
mediums said they were open to give any test proposed by the sitters,
so that cruelty was not practised. A more open or honest seance I
think could not be given. Great praise is due to Mr. Martheze for
bringing the boys and giving the sepnce free of expense, and also for his
valuable present of books and papers. Pollard Graham.
100, William-street, Southport.
SPIRITUAL MEETINGS IN BARROW-IN-FURNESS. .
Sir,—On Sunday, February 6th, we enjoyed a great pleasure, hav¬
ing our good friends Mrs. Scattergood, of Bradford, and Miss Long-
bottom, of Halifax, for three services in the Amphitheatre. The morn¬
ing discourse by Mrs. Scattergood was chosen by one of the audience,
“ He descended into Hell.” The afternoon discourse by Miss Long-
bottom, “ What is Spiritualism,” and comparing it with the Spiritualism
of the prophets and apostles. At night by Mrs. Scattergood, “ The
second coming of Christ.” The service was closed by a beautiful in¬
spirational poem by the former medium. At least 1,500 people attended
this evening’s service. I need not say that each of the subjects was treated
from a spiritual standpoint, rather disagreeing with old creeds, dogmas,
and such like narrow, cramped, things. On Tuesday evening we had
a fine meeting again, the subject chosenby show of hands was, “ Where
are the Dead between the day of death and day of judgment ?” This,
of course, was treated by Miss Longbottom’s guides from their point of
view, not the creedal one, after which her invisible friends answered
many questions. But as the questioners got deeply into the doctrines
of the divinity of Christ, and the atonement by blood, her control left,
and Mrs. Scattergood’s spirit friends took up the subject warmly. It
was an interesting meeting, and ended pleasantly. I am, however, sorry
to say that the multitude who listened on Sunday subscribed so badly
that the meetings were not money successes ; however, we Spiritualists
were highly gratified with our mediums and their spirit friends. We
think the London Spiritualists could not do better than have them, Mrs.
Scattergood’s controls being fine, with considerable energy if needed.
Miss Longbottom’s were more gentle, and often poetical. We had a
special pleasure in hearing some beautiful poetry given while sitting
chatting by the fireside on the Monday night. They were at Millom
Cumberland, on Wednesday, 9th, and remainder of week, giving great
pleasure and satisfaction to the Spiritualists there in private. H.
Barrow-in-Furness, Feb. 15th, 1876.
^vribtnctal iBtctos.
LIVERPOOL.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY,
Last Friday evening the business under consideration was “ The best
mode of conducting the Friday evening debates.” The new President,
Mr. Wm. Hitchman, M.R.C.S., occupied the chair, and delivered an
address on “ Higher Spiritualism,” in the course of which he said:—
The wholesome influence and salutary discipline, however, which the
higher Spiritualism is destined to exert on tranquil receptive minds, or
the pure in heart, can alone be appreciated in thought, word, and deed,
after the refutation of error, and the removal of prejudice. The true j.
Spiritualist, in fact, in order to work worthy of his vocation, in the path
that leads towards the blessed life, must needs have—under the shadow
of some angelic wing—an intellect so robust, a soul so calm, so lofty, I
massive, and immovable by opposition, that, with Luther, he may j
exclaim, from his heart of hearts—“ Let me, then, be refuted, and con- i
vinced of my error, by the clearest testimony, and the most invincible of 11
arguments; otherwise I cannot, and will not recant—for it is neither !1
right, nor expedient, to act against conscience. Here I take my stand, i1
and I can do no otherwise; so help me God! Amen.” Yes, and so I j,
say, to escape from the truth of nature—whether called spiritual or h
material—is treason on the part of man; and to resist evidence is i1
rebellion against God. Let objectors, therefore, do their worst against !,
Spiritualism, or any ‘form of physical and moral veracity which exists in i i
the heart of the universe, and they will eventually injure not us, but |1
themselves, and prove how vain and futile are all such mortal strivings j (
against that Immortal Will, which shall yet be done on earth, even as it |i
is in heaven. May the higher Spiritualism prevail! Let the religion j j
of our lives be in harmony with this exquisite, lovely, and spiritual j(
song— j<
M So long Thy power hath blest me, sure it still I *
Will lead me on, i
O’er moor and fen, o’er crag and torrent, till I <
The night is gone, i <
And with the morn those angel faces smile I *
Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile.”
This aspiration springs alone from that higher form of Spiritualism jj
which led Paul of Tarsus to write, with all his heart and soul, to the j i
Galatians, “Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lusts of the j<
flesh.’’ Mark that, not even “ fulfil ” them ! This is, indeed, the voca- j|
tion of each Spiritualist that desires to promote the welfare of humanity, i (
not by dogmatic theology or exclusive science, but by practical spirit- j<
uality in the heart and the life. In this way, and this way alone, does j]
the higher Spiritualism become a source of Divine blessing to himself, i(
and a splendid example of self-sacrifice to those around him, without l<
which religion itself is but a name. jj
“ It is a tale j(
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
Signifying nothing.” !
Depend upon it, God is a Spirit, and must be worshipped (if it all) in ij
those bright and beautiful deeds of practical righteousness, which are j!
the spiritual fruits of that divine tree of knowledge, whose buds and
blossoms are fragrant evermore with the heavenly sweetness of sincerity
and truth. This holy influence fructifies in the soul of man by means
of the angel-world, with whose paradise of purity it is our privilege to
commune or converse, conformably with the natural laws of matter and
spirit. This step, however, were mostly vain, I apprehend, unless the
mind of each truthseeker is open, candid, and passive to receive angelic
influence, and this ‘proviso necessitates the presence, also of another im¬
portant desideratum. “ The heart must be in the right place,” *.<?., not
on earth, but in heaven. The faithful Father of the human family,
is everything in nature, by and through the Divine will of mind supreme,
and out of the fulness and veracity of His heart of love came the
religious idea (amongst other and manifold blessings we enjoy) of uniting
His children, in the bliss ineffable of that angelic relationship, which
constitutes dual souls, or kindred spirits. This, I take it, is a splendid
example of modern revelation:—
Two souls with but a single love,
Two hearts that beat as one.
It was moved and seconded by Messrs. Charlton and Chapman “ That
all persons not members of the society withdraw.” Mr. Charlton said that
his reason for moving the resolution was—there were present individuals
who came night after night for the purpose of interrupting and harass¬
ing the society, and who were using all means, honorable and dishonor¬
able, to break up the association. The strangers then withdrew after a
little cross fire.
It was moved and seconded by Messrs. Chatham and Smith that the
lecture of the President be forwarded to the Editor of The Spiritualist
for verbatim insertion in that newspaper.
Mr. Charlton spoke of the excessive annoyance occasioned by a class
of men who were determined to break up the society.
Mr. Chapman said that it was absolutely necessary for the members
to arouse themselves to action, the conduct of these people (Mr. Chap¬
man named them) being outrageous and necessary to be dealt with at
once.
Mr. Shaw stated that he regretted that the society was afraid of a
little opposition; he felt that the society was taking a wrong step in
excluding the public from its rooms. He denied that he had any¬
thing to do with the persons spoken of, but he considered them respect¬
able and well-connected. Surely the society was not afraid of a little
sarcasm and ridicule ?
Dr. Hitchman said it was not in the power of any man to break up
the society, and if such an event did take place, Liverpool should not
be deprived of the Sunday services held there. Sooner than that
should occur, he would keep the room open himself, and pay all ex¬
penses. (Applause.)
Mr. Coates remarked that he deeply regretted the course events had
taken. As a member of that society he rather welcomed opposition.
Opposition had a tendency to weld organisations together: internal
dissensions were most to be feared. Let the members of the society
stand shoulder to shoulder, with hand and heart, and they need not
fear what outside influences could accomplish. If the members devoted
themselves a little more to the investigation of Spiritual and psycho¬
logical phenomena, and less to private bickerings, they need not dread
any evil arising out of opposition.
Mr. Ainsworth (vice-president) moved: “That the Friday evening
debates be closed to the public to the end of the present quarter, mem¬
bers having the privilege of introducing a friend, by acquainting the
chairman of the fact.” He said this course could not be avoided; he
regretted to close these meetings to the public; he had done all he
could to win these people over, but had failed.
This was seconded by Mr. Charlton.
Mr. J. Lament, as a hard-worker in connection with the society, could
see no other way of dealing with persons who were neither amenable
to reason nor common courtesy.
Mr. J. Shepherd was sorry that they had carried the resolution. He
could be no longer a member of a society that ruled with such an iron
hand. As a secularist of many years’ standing he had been an advocate
of the unpopular side of a question, and he believed that in treating
opponents with firmness and courtesy, eventually those that come to
mock would remain to listen. If these men really conducted themselves
so badly why were they not put out, if they did not obey the ruling of
the chairman?
Upon explanations being given by Messrs. Lament and Ainsworth,
Mr. Shepherd withdrew his intention of leaving the society, but not his
disapproval of the resolution. A vote of thanks was moved to the chair¬
man, who with a few earnest and appropriate remarks brought the
meeting to a close.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
STRICT TEST SEANCE.
On Thursday evening, February 11th, six and twenty persons assem¬
bled at Weir’s-court, including two visitors from Sunderland. Miss
Wood and Miss Fairlamb were both secured round the waists and arms
by strong wire to their chairs, and on being placed in the cabinet, the
two chairs fastened together, and the curtains drawn. The result was
that a male form with a beard eventually came a little way out into the
room, then, passing in and out, emptied all the loose articles out of the
cabinet, including a straw mattress sometimes used by the mediums
instead of a chair. Other things also took place. At the termination
of the seance the mediums were found exactly as at first secured. The
unloosening of the wires was a troublesome task, so they were cut. If
there had been any attempt to interfere with the wires inside the
cabinet, it must have been heard by those outside.
J. T. Rhodes.
Feb. 18, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
83
FLORENCE COOK’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. Blackburn has sent us the following letter in refer¬
ence to Mr. Harrison’s address at the testimonial meeting in
the Cavendish Rooms:—
Parkfield, Didabury, Manchester, 7th Feb., 1876.
To the Editor of u The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—I observe all you said at the presentatiou meeting. I wish you
had made some little allusion to Florence Cook in it, for by my securing
her services, and asking you to act as manager, then Mr. Luxmoore and
then Mr. Crookes, I think she gave the newspaper a very great lift, and
you would scarcely have been so advanced by several years. Therefore
she is deserving of some notice amongst us, as a supporter of a news¬
paper of elevated and spiritual character; of course now that she is
married and is no more amongst us, we shall find others cropping up
having similar power, because readers in your paper of her seances, have
begun trying to practise privately and have attained materialisations in
their own families. In a particular case, this has been done by one not
a paid medium at all. I was invited to Liverpool last week by Mr.
Martheze (who was staying a few days with me) and we went and saw
the medium and had a seance; Dr. Hitchman and others were there.
Shortly a male figure in white appeared, and he showed us his medium
in trance; then he closed the cabinet curtains and shortly appeared
again with a female with long ringlets; again I asked to see the medium,
and again all the company saw him and the two figures at the same time
in subdued light.—Yours truly, Charles Blackburn.
The remarkable manifestations through Miss Cook’s
(Mrs. Corner) mediumship, added much to the interest of
these pages, for Mr. Blackburn’s wise arrangement resulting
in the quiet development of the manifestations in compara¬
tive privacy at home, under the eyes of her father and
mother, led to a more accurate knowledge of the nature of
the phenomena than could have been obtained from the de¬
sultory examination possible in public circles. Daring the
last two years Mrs. Corner has given few stances, and those
chiefly to Mr. and Mrs. Crookes. Since the year 1873 she
has scarcely ever sat except under test conditions, tied with
tape in a manner well thought out by critical men, and the
knots sealed with signet rings, to prove the presence of ab¬
normal powers. She is now on her way round the Cape to
Shanghai, in a ship of which her husband, Captain Corner,
is commander.
Dalsto* Associatiom op Inquirers into Spiritualism.—At the ordi¬
nary monthly meeting of the Council,Jheld at the Association’s Rooms,
on Thursday evening, the 10th instant, Mr. John Rouse in the chair,
the other members present were Mrs. Wood, Mrs. Corner, Mr. J. Toze-
land, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, and Mr. Thomas Blyton. The minutes
of the last meeting were read and confirmed. Letters of general interest
received since the last meeting were read from the president, Mr. H. D.
Jencken, Miss Kislingbury, Mrs. Kimball, and Mr. S. H. Pearson, of
Beverley. The hon. treasurer submitted the cash book, and statement
of receipts and expenses in connection with the conversazione and ball
held at the Cavendish Rooms on 5th January last; which were passed.
An application for membership from Mr. Lucas de Caux was accepted.
The presentation to the library by Mr. Martheze of a copy of Mrs.
Tappan’s Inspirational Discourses was reported, and accepted with
thanks. The hon. secretary reported that he had sent an application
for admission of the Association into alliance with the British National
Association of Spiritualists, in pursuance of the resolution adopted at
the last general meeting, and read a letter from the resident secretary,
stating that the application would be submitted to the Council at its
next meeting. Several alterations in the prospectus were discussed
and approved. The date for the reading of a paper by the Rev. F. R.
Young, hon. member, on “ Our Duties as Spiritualists to Opponents,
Inquirers, and Ourselves,” was definitely fixed for Thursday evening,
the 21th instant.
Spiritualism in Rushdkn.—This thriving manufacturing village in
Northamptonshire, has been the scene of a little excitement over
Spiritualism. A young Baptist minister, near the district, posted Rush-
den with the announcement of a lecture entitled “ Spiritualism, an
Illusion,” to be delivered on Thursday, January 27th, at which discus¬
sion would be allowed. The Spiritualists at that place, few in number,
at once sent for Mr. J. W. Mahony, of Birmingham, to hear the lecture
and make a reply. Mr. Collett, the clerical opponent of Spiritualism,
(who had a densely crowded room on the 27th) made an aggressive
speech of twenty-five minutes’ duration p he asserted “ that Mr.
Mahony had come there thinking that he (Mr. Collett) would set the
phenomena down to the Devil; but he did no such thing—the Devil
having enough to bear without that. He would prove the productive
agent of all this Spiritualistic phenomena to be electro-biology. On
the following evening, Mr. Mahony gave a telling reply to the lecture.
Mr. Collett would not attend, but a good discussion followed, and,
when the chairman closed the meeting, the utmost excitement prevailed
among the audience, who discussed the matter themselves for an hour.
The Spiritualists present were plied with a hailstorm of questions, and
it is confidently expected that much investigation will follow. Mr.
Mahony also gave two lectures at Leigh, on Sunday, the 30th, under
the auspices of the Lancashire Spiritual Committee, and one at Warring¬
ton, on Tuesday, February 1st.
TESTING- MEDIUMS BY THE AID OF ELECTRICITY.
Last Monday night the electrical apparatus presented to
the National Association of Spiritualists by Mr. Charles
Blackburn was used in testing the Bamford Brothers, who,
however, obtained no manifestations. But the reflecting
galvanometer was found to work well. While the medium
in the cabinet held the electrodes a circle of light was pro¬
jected upon the wall of the room, and it moved a little as
the medium tightened or loosened his grasp of the handles.
When he ceased to hold the handles, the fact was at once
indicated by the motion of the light. The apparatus worked
with great steadiness, the galvanometer needle and its
mirror being mounted upon a vertical steel axis, instead of
suspended by a fibre of silk. Oscillation is thus lessened,
| yet the instrument is quite sensitive enough for the purpose.
It is a capital instrument for proving that mediums are
| doing nothing with their hands while in a dark cabinet and
I screened from observation.
On Monday evening next tbe usual fortnightly discussion meeting
will take place at 38, Great Russell-street, when a paper will be read
Ion Mesmerism, probably accompanied by some experiments.
Lord Rayleigh and Spiritualism.—The following appears in the
Court Journal:—“Lord Rayleigh is one of our greatest mathema¬
ticians, and yet is devoting considerable time to the investigation of
Spiritualism. He has associated with him two other influential savants,
one especially very well known at Cambridge. They are going to work
in a thoroughly systematic way to investigate the phenomena which
are produced by the Spiritualist media, and though not committing
themselves to the belief in Spiritualism, have been greatly impressed
by the performances which they have witnessed. The most puzzling
are those which have been effected when the galvanometer has been
used. This instrument is so delicate that it will detect the smallest
movement; yet a medium swathed and bound has been able to untie
the fastenings by which she was surrounded without producing the
smallest effect upon the galvanometer, though she was in connection
with it. One is glad to know that the subject is being thus properly
sifted by skilled scientists. This, rather than ridicule, is the right way
to approach phenomena of this kind.”
Mrs. Bassett’s Mediumship.—On Thursday evening last week Mrs.
Bassett gave a seance to some of her fellow members of the Dalston Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism, at 74, Navarino Road, Dalston, E.;
present—Mr. J. Tozeland, Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mrs. Wood, Mr. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen, Misses Caroline and Nina Corner, Mr. Edwin
Dottridge, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mrs. Collis, Mr. Lucas de Caux, Mr.
Robert Nelson Dawson, Mr. R. Cocker, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Blyton,
Mr. A. Burns, Mr. John Rouse, and Mrs. Blyton. - Mr. Tapp was
deputed to conduct the proceedings. The light was extinguished. In
the course of the sitting the direct voices of “James Lombard ” and
“ Charles Dallman ” were heard to advantage. Reference was made to
the jealousies of mediums, which, “James Lombard ” said, did more to
retard the progress of Spiritualism than aught else ; and that, instead
of mediums taking credit to themselves for their powers, and endea¬
vouring to rival each other, they should work more in harmony for the
advancement of the truth. A phosphorescent light, of a similar nature
to that observed on previous occasions, was witnessed by all present.
During the seance several members were influenced, but without any
apparent interference with the manifestations produced through Mrs.
Bassett’s mediumship. At the close of the sitting the lamps were
re-lit, and a cordial vote of thanks was unanimously accorded to Mrs.
Bassett for her presence.
National Association Offices.—At the last Council meeting of the
National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Everitt moved that a committee
be formed “ to inquire into the relations between Mr. Harrison and the
National Association,” with the view of requesting Mr. Harrison to re-
| move his office from the premises of the Association, as, Mr. Everitt
further asserted, some dissatisfaction among non-members existed in
certain parts of the country, on account of Mr. Harrison’s supposed too
close alliance with the Association. Mr. Rogers’s amendment was in
opposition to this, and the amendment was carried by an overwhelming
i majority. Some of those who did not vote for the amendment were
strongly against Mr. Eyeritt’s motion, and three vice-presidents, who
were absent, expressed their disapproval of it. A few days after the
above decision of the Council, Mr. Harrison gave notice that he would
get a branch office elsewhere, in order not to be a cause of dissension,
| but added that not a single complaint of the kind mentioned by Mr.
Everitt had been sent to the Council; they had all come to Mr. Everitt
from four of Mr. Everitt’s friends in the provinces, Messrs. R. Harper,
I T. P. Hinde, J. Lamont, and W. P. Adshead, whose letters he read ;
| and these letters appeared, from their wording, to have been written at
| his previous solicitation. At the Council meeting Mr. Everitt was sup¬
ported by his friend Mr. Freeman, and by Dr. George Sexton, Editor
j of The Spiritual Magazine. Mr. Everitt, on technical grounds, dis-
| putes the validity of the last Council meeting. Another has been called
| for Wednesday afternoon next. Mr. Harrison’s only relation to the
National Association is that bv agreement, for purposes of mutual con-
| veninence, he has a branch office—a small room—on the premises, in
j charge of J. Mr. Selwood.
84
THE SPIKITUALIST.
CHINESE SPIRITS AS DESCRIBED IN CHINESE
FICTION.
(from “ The Globe.”)
Except the three short novels translated into English in 1822 by Sir
John Davis, hardly any specimeni of Chinese fiction has reached Eng¬
lish readers. Of these three novels, “ The Shadow in the Water” was
a pretty, simple, love tale; “The Twin Sisters” and “The Three
Dedicated Chambers,” stories which merely gave us a clearer view of
Chinese manners and opinions. A far more characteristic Chinese
novel has, however, lately fallen into our hands, and we proceed to
abridge it for our readers. It forms the twelfth section of the “ Kin-koo-
ke-kwan,” a celebrated Chinese collection of short novels. Our story is
called “ Friends till Death,” and idealises a friendship as staunch and
true as that of Damon and Pythias.
The novel commences thus :—Once upon a time Kuen-Wang, King
of Tsoo, invited to his court all enlightened scholars who needed em¬
ployment. A virtuous scholar, named Tso-pih-Taou, living in the
Tseih-shi hills of Se-Keang, hearing the proclamation of this just and
virtuous monarch, threw a pack of books over his shoulder, bade adieu
to his friends and neighbours, and hastened by by-roads to Tsoo.
It was the winter period of the wind and the rain when by easy stages
he had reached Yung-te. He had now to buffet, head downwards,
with the wind and rain, and the load was heavy on his bent back. One
day, towards sunset, with clothes soaked with rain, he perceived in a
bamboo wood a hut with broken window, from whence streamed a
welcome light. Pushing through the low hedge that encircled the hut,
he knocked humbly at the wicket. A person at once came out. The
applicant, giving his name, and describing the object of his journey,
prayed for a night’s shelter, as the rain was heavy and no inn was near.
The tenant of the hut at once exchanged compliments and led him into
the hut. Tso-pih-Taou looked round and saw nothing but a couch
strewn with books, and knew at once that the owner was a literary man,
and turned “ to perform the compliment of bowing to him.” “ Do not
stand upon compliments,” said his blunt host, “it is better to dry your
garmentsand, so saying, he lit some broken bamboos for a fire, and
got out food and wine for his guest. The owner of the hut then told
Tso-pih-Taou that his name was Yang-Keo-Gae; that he had in early
life lost his parents, and dwelt there alone; that his farming he had
abandoned; and that his present good fortune was great in thus meeting
with a learned doctor from a distance, and that he only regretted the
bareness of his house, and humbly entreated the learned doctor to for¬
give it. “ In such a storm,” replied Tso-pih-Taou, “ under the favour
of your shelter, and, in addition, receiving food and wine, how can I
ever forget to thank you ?” That night the two lay down to rest, but
they conversed of their studies half the night, and did not fall asleep
till the dawn.
They swore eternal friendship, and agreed to travel together to Court,
but broke down on the road from the inclemency of the weather and the
deserted character of the country.
Ten le further the Tso-pih broke down and could go no further, so
the two friends took shelter under a decayed mulberry tree, whose trunk
time had hollowed into a cave. There was room only for one. Yang-
Keo assisted Tso-pih to enter and sit down, and Yang-Keo went to look
for two flints, so that he might make a fire of the rotten wood. When he
returned to the tree to his astonishment he found Tso-pih naked, and all
his clothes lying in a heap. Yang-Keo exclaimed “ My brother, why
hast thou done this ? ” “ There is no other resource left us,” answered
Tso-pih. “ Let not my brother delude himself; he must put on these
garments, carry these rations, and go forward. I will die here.”
Yang-Keo embraced him, and burst into tears. “We two,” he said,
“ are true friends, and we must live and die together ; death only shall
part us.” Yang-Keo replied, “ Let not my brother contend; my brother
is strong; I have been weak from youth; he is deeper read and better
informed than me. If he only sees the King of Tsoo, he is sure to be
made an important Minister. For my death who cares ? Remain not
a moment, but go at once.” “ To leave you starving in a mulberry
tree,” said Yang-Keo, “ while I go and seek promotion, is not the act of
a just man. I will not go.” “ Of my own accord, and led by no one,”
answered Tso-pih, “ I came over the Tseih-shi hills to my brother’s
house. The wind and rain are adverse. This is my fate, and I must
undergo it; but should I cause my brother to perish it would be a sin
upon me.” He then tried to leap into the stream before them and die.
Yang-Keo embraced him, and bitterly weeping, covered him with his
garments, and led him back to the mulberry tree; but again Tso-pih
threw off his clothes and renewed his exhortations.
Suddenly Tso-pih’s colour changed, the cold was gnawing at his
heart; he motioned his friend to go. Yang took the clothes again to
carefully cover him over, but he was already dying. His hands
stiffened; his legs fixed. Yang-Keo stood and thought—“ If I stay
here long mourning for my brother I shall also be frozen to death, and
then, when I am gone, who will bury my brother ?” Then, in the
snow, worshipping his brother, he cried:—“ Your degenerate younger
brother departing hence, prays the assistance of your shade; and
should he only obtain the lowest appointment, he will return, and give
you a sumptuous funeral.” Tso-pih bent his head in assent, and,
trying to answer, gave up the ghost. Sorrowfully Yang-Keo took up
the dead man’s clothes, and, with head turned to look on him, weepingly
began his journey. An ancient ode in his praise begins:—
“ The cold came, and the snow was three cubits deep;
He tramped upon the road for a thousand le.
******
Virtuous indeed was Tso-pih-Taou.”
In laying down his life he manifested the beauty of a perfect man.
And here we must quicken the story, as our space is short. Yang-Keo
arrives at Tsoo half-starved, rests in a caravanserai that night, and in
the morning hurries straight to the examination-hall, where Pei-
Chung, the chief, kindly welcomes him, and gives him wine and food.
He passes his examination so well, this virtuous scholar, that the man¬
darin at once recommends him to the King, who at once appoints him a
11 Ta-foo of the second class, and gives him a hundred ounces of gold and
i a hundred ells of variegated silk. As he bows and pays obeisance, the
)j good man’s tears break forth, and being asked the reason by the kindly
'I King, he at once relates the story of Tso-pih’s generous self-devotion.
11 The King and his officers are touched, and the King then gives him
j leave of absence to bury his friend, disburses the expenses of the
I funeral, promotes the dead man to the rank of second Ta-foo, and sends
a retinue to attend the chariot of Yang-Keo.
They find the corpse untouched by decay. Yang-Keo, weeping, sends
for old persons of the district to choose a place for burial by divination,
i They select one overlooking a stream and encircled by mountains. The
| corpse is washed in scented water, dressed, decked with the cap of a
i Ta-foo, and buried in a double coffin; a mound is raised on the four
sides, and girt with a mud wall. Trees are planted near, and at a
P| distance of thirty paces a small temple is built, inclosing a terra-cotta
Kj image of the noble Tso-pih. It is decorated with flowers and shrubs,
|| and a tablet is fastened in front. At the door they make a small apart-
j)j ment for the watchman. Then, shedding tears, they offer up the usual
!(! sacrifice.
j|i That same night Yang-Keo, with lamps burning,’'was there weeping,
m On a sudden a gust of wind came whistling and howling in, the lamps
IKj almost went out, and on their reviving he saw a shadow of a person
sobbing and reluctant to advance. On looking closer he saw it was Tso-
pih. He said, “ I thank my brother for his faithful recollection. The
beauty of the coffins and shroud are beyond praise, but my tomb is close
to that of King Ko (a rascal who was killed for an unsuccessful attempt
on the King’s life), and his spirit is majestic and fierce, and every night
he comes with a sword and asks how a frozen and weak rascal like
| me can come and lie on his shoulders, and threatens to overthrow my
tomb and cast my corpse on the moor. I beg my younger brother to
|j| remove my tomb, that I may avoid this menaced calamity.” Before
j}j Yang-Keo could ask a pardon the wind arose and the shadow vanished.
K| The next day Yang-Keo went with his followers to King Ko’s temple
| | and reviled his image, threatening, if he oppressed the dead scholar, to
|(| destroy his sepulchre and overthrow the temple.
| | That night as he watched, the shadow again appeared and sighed.
| I “ King Ko,” it said, “ has many followers, and sacrifices are offered to
|(| him. My brother must make grass and reeds, and make images of
I j| soldiers, clothe them in colours and give them weapons, then burn them
|(| before my tomb.” He did so, and on that night there was a sound as of
| | wind and rain and men fighting. Then the shadow appeared again and
11| said “ King Ko has got help; the men my brother burnt are of no use;
|) | remove my corpse and save me, or it will be thrown out of the sepulchre.”
| | “How dare he insult my elder brother, the virtuous scholar,” cried
|)| Yang-Keo. “ I will help him with my own sword.” “ Alas!” said the
i)| shadow, “weare but spirits, and living man cannot war against us,
Kj and your effigies showed that they could not drive back King Ko and
| | my enemies.’’ “ Depart, my brother,” said Yang-Keo, “ and to-morrow
K| you shall have a quiet grave.”
| | The next day, Yang-Keo went to King Ko’s temple, reviled him, and
!« smashed his image, and would have set fire to the temple, had not the
| Q elders of the village in treated him, for fear of calamity, not to overthrow
jy the people’s sacrificial fire. Yang-Keo at once wrote to the King,
|}| thanking him for his promotion, and begging the King to suffer him to
| | devote himself to death, and recompense his brother, who had done so
|/| much for him. He then went to Tso-pih’s tomb, and said to his
|(| followers, weeping—“ My brother is persecuted, and I die to help him
||J against this strong spirit. Bury my corpse to the right of his tomb. In
|(i life and death we will be near together. I will endeavour by a last
[effort to recompense his friendship.” So saying, he stabbed himself to
the heart, and he died, and they buried him beside Tso-pih’s tomb.
That night the wind and the rain were fearful, and between the
flashes of lightning there came shouts of battle heard for many a le.
Suddenly King Ko’s tomb rent apart, and the bones were scattered on
the moor. The fir tree near was plucked up by the roots, and the
ancestral temple burst into flames. The King, hearing of this, at once
| ordered a temple for the deceased, which he called the Temple of
| Brotherly Fidelity, and set up a tablet to record the event, promoting
the brave and loving Yang-Keo to be the chief of the Tafoo. From that
w| day to this the fragrant fire has never been extinguished, but although
|(| King Ko’s soul was destroyed, the villagers on the four seasons of
Kj the year still offer sacrifices for the redemption of his spirit.
K j Seance at Mrs. Gregory’s.—Last Tuesday night a seance was held
| | at the residence of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 27, Green-street, Gros-
K| venor-square ; the medium was Miss Lawrence, of Cardiff. The guests
K! present were Lady Paulett, the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Mr. J.
|(| H. Gledstanes, Mr. and Miss Yere, Miss E. Fitz-Gerald, Captain
I James, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. Various messages of a personal
j nature were given by trance-mediumship; the communicating intelli¬
gences were not recognised.
Islington Spiritual Institution.—The annual meeting in connection
with the above Institution was held on Sunday last, at 19, Church-
street. A small but harmonious company was present at the tea; the
number increased later in the evening, but the severe weather prevented
j; many from attending. .Addresses were given through several trance
? media, and Messrs. Barber and Stephens made some excellent remarks.
[ Mr. Bullock gave a statement of the number of stances and meetings
held during the twelve months the Institution has been in existence.
| Mr. and Mrs. Bullock solicit the co-operation of a few earnest Spirit¬
ualists to assist them in their work, additional subscribers being
j required to render the meetings a financial success. The hall greatly
needs repairs, and any aid that can be afforded to enable this to be
! carried out will be gratefully received.
Feb. 18, 1870.
Feb. 18, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.O*
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALIi LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
footfalls on the boundary of another
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.;
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, * by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic| Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out. of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The autnor admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpubUshed, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo„ 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 5s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rme, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Xnti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and iScience; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. <kL
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell>
7s Od.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, hut these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
,' Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, Od.; cheap edition,
7s. Od. „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits througb
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE, a collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. "
POEMS BY AGHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introductiomby Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Od.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Od.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,
12s
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tnke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF fHE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS; A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS', by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. (id.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
d.
24 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett. M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. ed.) 4s..
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
~ ' „ II.
I ill
„ IV. ...
„ V. „• .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . .
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson)
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (EStel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18. 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . ., . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makere. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by^James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . io
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , .10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forater. A useful Tract for Inquirers. - Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Gd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures.- By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Gd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE ? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallbck. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 18, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin E. Smiih, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isbam, Bart.
Baroness Adelma von Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.
Tel.E.
N. P. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Honywood.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Kate Pox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq,
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the
editor. ■ This journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,
caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no
means self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
its existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that; in order the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upo'n
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect a mass of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
Spiritualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly due to his exertions.. Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that for a special
purpose, appeared in the pages.of the Spiritualist for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless, greatly
relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that
it is not to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is
hoped, may to some extent, relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring to contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin R. Smith .Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury 38, Great Russell-street, London, \V.C.
List op Subscriptions to February 18th, 1876.
Mr. Martin R. Smith     £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  60 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze    ; 60 0 0
Mr. James Mylne     40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder     20 0 0
A Friend     20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod       20 0 0
Comte de Bullet    20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe  15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D  10 0 0
Prince Paskievitsch  6 7 7
Prince Gagarin    6 7 7
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein   6 0 0
F. S. A        5 5 0
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S  5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D   5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe       5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey ,....   5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald   5 0 0
A Friend        5 0 0
Mr. A. Tod..........  (Second Subscription) 5 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  » it 5 0 0
Mr. C. C. Massey  „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. A. Calder       „ „ 5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  „ „ 5 0 0
F. S, A      „ „ 5 0 0
Signor Damiani          3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood       2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald   '220
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S    2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery :  2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D  2 2 0
“ Ennesfallen ”   2 2 0
Three Friends      2 2 0
Mr. A. L. Henderson     2 2 0
Col. Olcott    2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent     2 0 0
Dr. Baikia    ;  2 0 0
Miss Douglas       2 0 0
M. H. C ;,...  2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh   2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland.   2 0 0
Miss Afina Blackwell   2 0 0
Mr. Koningale Cook  1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King    110
Mr. F. A. Binney        ’.  110
Mr. J. Coates    110
Mrs. Maltby  110
Mrs. Kislingbury   110
Mr. B. W. Pycock     1 1 0
Mr. B. Coleman       110
Mr. R. FUton      110
Major Menars        110
Mr. John Lamont      110
Mr. Archibald Lamont      110
Mr. T. B. Griffin     ;  110
Mr. J. B. Stones   »  110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese .'.    110
Rev. W. Whitear     110
Miss Whitear  .'  1 1 0
Mr. C. E. Williams     110
Mr. A. Glendinning   110
Mr. H. Withall   110
Captain James ..'  110
Mr. F. W. Percival       110
Mr. Christian Reimers   ;   110
Mr. Thos. Hinde....     110
Mr. Thos. Grant  1 1 0
Mrs. Geo. Neville     110
Mr. G. R. Tapp   1 1 0
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson    110
Mrs. Woodforde ....  110
Mr. T. M. Simkiss   1 1 0
A Friend        110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson  1 1 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead       110
Mr. D. H. Wilson   110
Mrs. M. T. Wood....  1 1 0
Mr. John Scott     1 1 o
Mr. C.T. Hook.....    1 1 0
Mr. W. White... ....\    1 1 0
Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy   1 1 0
Dr. W. Hitchman      1 1 o
Mr. E. D. Rogers     10 0
Mr. R. Corbet    10 0
M. B  1 0 0
Baroness von Vay   10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan       10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder     10 0
A Subscriber    !  10 0
Amicus ;   10 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton      10 0
M.A. (Oxon.)   10 0
Mr. J. H. Gladstones  1 0 o
Mr. William Oxley  10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee     0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett        0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands     0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin  ,,....    0 10 6
Mrs. Aaron Franklin      0 10 6
Mr. J. S. Crisp         0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald   0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock      0 10 o
Mr. Geo. Bljton   0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts    0 10 0
J. F. C ......i....    0 10 0
Mr. E. Storey         0 10 6
Mn J. Deane     0 10 6
C. S. S    0 10 0
A. C.       ,1 ...„  0 10 0
A. B. C          0 8 6
Mr. Algernon Joy        0 5 0
Miss Kislingbnry   0 5 0
“Peterboro”       0 5 0
A. O. W  0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald       0 5 0
A Clergyman  0 5 0
A Reader of TAe Spiritualist  0 5 0
Mr. Wm. Robinson   0 5 0
Mr. E. Pearce      0 5 0
“ Mercy ”      0 5 0
An Old Friend    0 5 0
Miss Mackay  ;  0 5 0
The Misses Young  0 5 0
V.        0 5 0
A Well-wisher       0 5 0
Mr. Young   0 5 0
Small sums  0 5 3
Guarantee Fund   209 0 0
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Anyel in the tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
, 8.—The Placets Saturn ard Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Argelic Society .of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, aud not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88,
Great Russell-street, London, W.O. 
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
kj U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the .Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scitntist Pub. Go., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street, Tho Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
Loudon, W.O.
nHHE ALPHA ; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE HOMAN MIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenteum. “ It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful.Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
J. PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man? The ‘‘one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
‘■THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
AH communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.C.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oh
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has au influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science" (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist: Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. II. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marirat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wasou; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. II. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. ill. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling¬
bury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies aud gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the Uiiited;Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, '4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.O.”
[December, 1875.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St, George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
