[Eectrtered as a Newspaper,
S>f!) joiTiOf^
0^ f^YdSO^OG^lda^
&]}£ toHIj Spirxfualkm in feai §rxlaiit.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. (opposite the British Museum), and 11, Ave
Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. ROME : The Inter¬
national Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI ; Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 605, Montgomery-street.
No. 187.—(VOL. YIII.—No. 12.) LONDON I FRIDAYj MARCH 24j 1876.. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontms.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman’s Work in Spiritualism 133
Via Lucls... *... ...' .■.. A. ... '... ... 134
My Experiences in London and Brussels    135
Spirit Individuality—Remarkable Seances in Paris  136
Provincial News:—Livtf'pooJ, Is it Jugglery ?—The Liver¬
pool Psychological Society, 136—Neiccastie-oti-Tyne ... 137
Transactions of the National Associaion of Spiritualists... 137
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—The Loss of
the Strathmore—The Problem of the Spiritual Nature of
the Universe—The Energy Consumed in Mental Opera¬
tions  ’ ...     ... ... ... ... 138
The Golden Age     f;    ...139
Poetry:—De Profundis... ... ...  139
Correspondence .—Elementary Spirits—On What Condi¬
tions have Organisations the Right to Live ?—The Power
of Spirits over Common Matter—Mr. Blackburn's free
Seances—The Relative Trustworthiness of Various Phases
of Mediumship—Spiritualism from a Church of England
Point of View—A New Theory of Perception—Spirit
Hands and Lights through Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken's
Mediumship—A Testimonial to Mrs. Scattergood—Test
Seances in Newcastle—Publius Syrus again—“Hafed,
Prince of Persia ”—Suspicious Features of Geniune Phe-
nomena—How a Ship was Saved... ...   139
Spirit Manifestations at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s 144
Paragraphs :—A Meeting at Islington, 137; Speculations
by the Duke of Argyle, 138; Spiritualism in Dalston, 138;
Concert at Cavendish Rooms in Aid of Dr. Sexton's
Organ Fund, 144; Return of Mr. Morse to London, 144;
Spiritualism in Blackfriars, 144; Dr. Sexton at Finchley 144
ft* Samtaltaf fUtogppr*
^Established in 1869. * *
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London. E.C.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, April 5th, 1876, at their Rooms, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W. C.
Entrance in Wobum-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for
the benefit of Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting
friends and members, and of discussing matters of interest
connected with the Spiritualistic movement.
Music and other entertainments will be provided at each
meeting.
Hours from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets, to be obtained of the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
W.O. 
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, MJ>.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIH.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X—Prayer.
Xt.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. fid. each, at The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardee, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 6 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C,
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUS¬
CULAR DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen's-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
    J. Coates, Principal.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipslc: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reflexionen aus der GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell* •
street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
MRS. WOODFORDE begs to announce her
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE to 8,Milton-street, Dorset-
aquare (near Baker-street Station), where she will be glad to
welcome, as of old, all friends and visitors. Physical seances
with two first-class mediums, will be held as usual, every Thurs¬
day and Saturday evenings. Usual manifestations—direct
voice, direct writing, and materialisations (if conditions serve)
of the friends of visitors, also a new materialised musical in¬
strument, played (it is said by Blondel) with remarkable skill
in accompaniment of the musical box. Especial invitations
will be issued for the Saturday evenings, and an introduction
from some well-known Spiritualist is requested for the Thurs¬
day evenings. All friends who have been in the habit of
attending Mrs. Woodforde’s seances will always be welcome.
Admission, 5s.
Mrs. Woodfordo is also open to engagements for private
physical seances to be held at her own residence; a few days
previous notice must be given. Names will be received for a
daylight seance to be held shortly. With pleasant rooms
open to her visitors, and every effort made to obtain superii r
manifestations, Mrs. Woodforde hopes to afford those who
will honour her with their presence, some most agreeable and
satisfactory seances.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.—The
QUARTERLY TEA MEETING in aid of Mr. R. Cos-
man’s work in Spiritualism at the East End of London, will
be held on Sunday, March 26th, at five o'clock, at 15, St. Peter’s •
road, Mile-end, E. Tickets, Is. each.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.;
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday,/Seance at 8p.m.; Is. Friday,/Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
CAVENDISH ROOMS, Mortimer-street,
Cavendish-square, London, W. The Third Quarterly
CONCERT and Elocutionary Entertainment, in aid of the
Organ Fund in Connection with Dr. Sexton’s Sunday Services,
will take place on WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29tb, 1876. The
following ladies and gentlemen have kindly promised to assist:
—Mrs. Savage, Mrs. Limpus, Miss Clara Nash, Mrs. Russell,
Miss L. Gilham, Miss M. Lowry, Miss Claxton, Mrs. Gulliver,
Miss Sexton, Mr. G. S. Graham, Mr. A. G. Ogan, Mr. Savage,
Mr. N- Browne, Mr. T. Menzies, Mr. J. Thompson, Mr. T. H.
Edmands, Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mr. G. Sexton, jun., Mr. F. M.
Sexton. Mrs. Edmands, pianoforte. Doors open at 7.30;
commence at 8 Admission—Reserved Seats, 2s.; Back Seats,
Is. Tickets may he had of Mr. George Sexton, jun., 17,
Trafaigar-road, Old Kent-road, S.E.; 75, Fleet-street, E.O., and
at the Doors on the evening of the entertainment.
Drill hall, leigh. Mr. i. w. mahony
will deliver two LECTURES (afternoon and evening)
in the above hall, on Sunday, March 26th, 1876. Subjects:
Afternoon, “ Spiritualism and its Opponents evening,
” Spiritualism, the Greatest Question of the Age.” Chair
to he take at three in the afternoon, and at half-past six in the
evening. Admission—front seats, 6d.; back seats. 3d. A large
parcel of Spiritualistic literature from John Scott, Belfast,
will he given away at the lectures.
SOUTH LONDON ASSOCIATION OF
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. List of meetings
during the week: Sunday, Trance or other Address at Seven;
Monday, Discussion and Conversational Meeting at Eight;
Tuesday, Developing Circle, at Eight, members only; Thurs-r
day, /Seance at Eight, members only; Fiiday, /Seance at Eight,
members only; Saturday, Seance at Eight, non-members, 3d.
Members Is. per quarter, and 2d. on attending a Seance. Any
further information can be obtained at the rooms on any
evening. J. Burton, Ron. Secretary.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SIMEKIN, MARSHAIIj & CO.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a vtry large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Maech 24, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Herefora-square, West Brompton, S.W.
’oleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-vUla, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hltchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Isllngtou-sq.,
Liverpool.
Hollywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derbj' House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N„ Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Asiiton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-st., Liver pool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hili, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-strcct, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, ICeningale, LL.D., 38, Great Kussell-strcet, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbounie.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George II., 1, Earlham-road-tcrrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. II., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-strect, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-creseent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Suelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge. Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwotd.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
■Tapp & R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
iheoMorell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Wedgwood, Hensleign, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 8, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Alde-de-
Camp General de 8.ML de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co,,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Rikq, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of PhUosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street,Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,.M J>., 196, CUnton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.&A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. LI Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
u.s.a:
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-ptace, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Heretord-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog. Aiexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists'is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mx. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Ms. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. 3. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr. G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustee*.—Snmes Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton,
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the edneation of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875,
In the Press.
Dr. monck’s almanack and truth-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Contains original articles written expressly for
the almanack by S. C. Ha}], F.S.A., Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Fritz,” T. P. Barkas,'F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Calder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c., &c. Subjects—“ Scientific Spiritualism,” “ Cui
Bono," “The Healing Power,” “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life,” ‘ The Beneficent Aspect of Spiritualism," On Mediums,’
“Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 8, Milton-stract, Dorset-square.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 8, Milton-street,
Dorset-square.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, SO, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MRS. MALTBY, Magnetic Healer, 26,
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C. Mrs. Maltby
receives the patients of Dr. Mack, and others wishing to con¬
sult her,'daily between the hours of eleven and five.
M
ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomauia, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), ineluding specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
PROFESSOR JAMES
Healer, 37, Hart-street,
REGAN, Psychopathic
Bloomsbury square, London,
W.C. Professor Regan begs to announce that he has removed
to the above central address from his late residence, South
Kensington. Personal attendance to patients, and terms in
accordance with their means. Hours from 12 till 5 daily.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIAM EGLINGTON, the PHY¬
SICAL MEDIUM, is at liberty to receive ENGAGE¬
MENTS for Seances at private houses. For terms, &c.,
address, Mr.W. Eolinoton, St. James's House, Walthamstow.
Clairvoyance, and healing by spirit
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-known Spirit-
Medium, on Thursday (other days by appointment only), from
two to four p.m. for Private Consultation, and four to five for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Belmont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven p.m., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive's Healing Powers
are now well established, and testified to by many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within t
miles, two guineas inclusive.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend*
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
Art, magic, mundane, sub-mun¬
dane, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and pay¬
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending books to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author's behalf, does not feel justified
in sending out such a rare and valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the book sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Habdinge Bhitten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic, <fcc., 206, West 38th-
Btreet, New York, America.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND OO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &o
Chief Office; 47, Crawford-street, Brynstone-
SQUARE, W.
Personal attendance at any address or receipt of letter or
telegram.
I Xttptfo tA Up tS mtb tl
VojLiijviE Eiqht. Number Twelve.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 24th. 1876.
MR. BENJAMIN COLEMAN’S WORK IN SPIRITUALISM. j j
The early history of Spiritualism in Great Britain will |jj
for all time be connected with the deeds of Mr. Benjamin Cole- I > j
man, and with those of some ten or twenty other prominent || |
workers, who made known its facts during those early years, | j j
when such a line of action involved the utmost social perse- ;) |
cution which it was possible for the uninformed public to Ip
inflict upon those connected with a misunderstood new truth, i j
Since this journal was first published, exclusively personal
articles for the purpose of praising any particular workers,
have been avoided, their deeds having been recorded in place
thereof, and allowed to speak for themselves ; but as at the
present time a testimonial is on foot for the benefit of Mr. Cole¬
man, this general practice may be departed from in dealing
with what is now a public movement. A month or two ago
this testimonial on behalf of Mr. Coleman was projected,
and preliminary measures were taken ; it was not intended,
at the outset, to make the matter generally public, but this
intention has since been abandoned. The present is an
unfortunate time for the introduction of anything into
Spiritualism involving expense, it being at the close of the most
costly financial year that Spiritualism has ever seen ; but, on
the other hand, a series of business disappointments on the
part of Mr. Coleman renders this a particularly desirable
time for his friends to come forward with a testimonial which
may, should the sum collected be sufficient, result in the
purchase for him of an annuity.
One marked trait in the character of Mr. Coleman’s work
in Spiritualism has been that in days of darkness and of
difficulty, when any comparatively helpless worker was
involved in some trouble brought on by external circum¬
stances, Mr. Coleman would come forward in defence where
more timid supporters would have withdrawn. For instance,
many years ago, when Mrs. Mary Marshall gave a seance at
Great Malvern, and steps were taken to prosecute her “ for
obtaining money under false pretences,” Mr. Coleman, instead
of deserting her or the truths he advocated under those cir¬
cumstances, voluntarily put in an appearance at the police
court, and by raising a technical point secured the collapse
of the whole charge which in those days of total ignorance
of Spiritualism and its phenomena would, if it had been
carried further, have no doubt resulted very badly for the
medium. In short, Mr. Coleman, in doing work which some
very few other pioneers have equally effectually laboured to
establish, has had his best powers pre-eminently brought out
in days of hard fighting rather than in periods of peace,
although at all times he has done his work well.
For more than twenty years he has been a fearless and
outspoken advocate of the truth of Spiritualism. So far
back as the year 1855 he discussed the subject with the
late Sir David Brewster, who in the course of his obser¬
vations to Mr. Coleman, made use of that remarkable
expression, “ Spirit, Sir, is the last thing I will give in to;”
and when Sir David wished to retreat from his previous
admissions, and published a denial in the Morning
Advertiser, October, 1855, that he had never witnessed any
phenomena in the presence of Mr. Daniel D. Home, for
which he could not satisfactorily account, Mr. Coleman
corrected Sir David’s misrepresentations in a letter to the
same journal, and defended the integrity of Mr. Home. We
have all had the satisfaction of seeing that Mr. Coleman has
been vindicated recently by Sir David Brewster’s daughter.
It appears that Sir David had recorded and commented
upon the facts he had witnessed through Mr. Home’s
mediumship, in his private diary in June, 1855, and his
extraordinary denial of Mr. Coleman’s statements were
made in a letter addressed to him in October, 1855, four
months after the record which his daughter, Mrs. Gordon,
has unwittingly published to the world. Fortunately for
the reputation of the man we desire to honour, it estab¬
lishes at a very early period of the advent of Spiritualism in
England, the truthful and reliable character of Mr. Coleman’s
statements. Indeed, it is one of the chief features of the
numerous articles he has written during the last twenty
years on mediumship, and the extraordinary and (at the
time they were published) unbelievable facts he had seen
and verified, which have come to him through various
media, that they bear well the test of time, and are corrobo¬
rated by recent developments.
In 1861 Mr. Coleman visited America for the purpose
of investigating Spiritualism; there he made the acquaint¬
ance of some of the chief men connected with the movement
in that country, and became intimately acquainted with
Prof. J. Mapes, Judge Edmonds, Mr. Andrew Jackson Davis,
Mr. A. E. Newton, Mr. Colby (of the Banner of Light), and
our respected correspondent, Mr. Epes Sargent, of Boston.
Mr. Chas. F. Livermore, the banker, of New York, also
became his friend, and entrusted Mr. Coleman with the
whole account of his very wonderful experiences, which
Mr. Coleman gave to the world in the pages of the
Spiritual Magazine, and his volume Spiritualism in America.
Mr. Coleman has done his part in helping forward most
i! of the principal mediums who have visited this country
11 from America, amongst the earliest of whom were Mr.
[ | A. E. Newton and Mr. Danl. Home, and later on Mr.
H Chas. Forster and the Davenport Brothers, whilst he was
| always ready with his pen and his purse to defend those
j mediums who have from time to time sprung up in Eng-
| land. He took especial interest in the younger Mrs. Mar-
I shall, whom he knew as a girl of fourteen, and through her
| mediumship—which was remarkable, as we can avouch—
! he made many converts.
In 1866 Mr. Coleman instituted a series of soirees and
I j conferences, held at the Beethoven Rooms, in Harley-street,
I which were eminently successful. At these meetings Mrs.
II Emma Hardinge was first introduced by Mr. Coleman to an
11 English public, and we are indebted to him for the publica-
11 tion of two volumes, published at his own cost, of the elo-
11 quent orations delivered by this celebrated lady during a
11 period of three months. A second series of these very in-
/1 teresting meetings was also promoted by Mr. Coleman in
II the following year, at which, among others, Mr. Alfred
(j Russell Wallace read his celebrated essay on Miracles in
11 reply to David Hume and more recent objectors.
We have never heard but one opinion of the value of these
11 meetings, which were presided over by Mr. Coleman with ability,
| i and which tended to give ahigh tone to the Spiritual movement
) !• in this country. It is known, too, that Mr. Coleman has taken
j I the labour, whilst Spiritualists generally have readily re-
j | sponded to his proposals, of marking their sense of the
|| merits of many of those who are prominent in the Spiri-
| tual ranks, by presenting them with testimonials, which
H have been accompanied by addresses illuminated and written
11 on parchment; through Mr. Coleman five such testimonials
]| have been presented—viz., to Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten,
11 Dr. J. S. Newton, Mr. William Howitt, Judge Edmonds,
; | and Mrs. Cora Tappan.
11 These and many other useful services in promoting the
11 cause in an orderly way Mr. Coleman has done for Spirit-
| j ualism, and now, after having been suddenly struck down
11 by partial paralysis, from which it is pleasing to state, he
has greatly recovered, and having lost a large portion of
| the means upon which he has depended to live, it has become
11 the duty of Spiritualists in all parts to come to the rescue, and
(j to show that they are not indifferent to the claims which
11 this disinterested and indefatigable worker in the promotion
j of a great truth has upon our special consideration. It is to
II be hoped that a substantial sum may be secured to com-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 24, 1876.
pensate him for past losses, and guard him from future worldly
anxiety ; and we doubt not that the following committee of
ladies and gentlemen, composed of Spiritualists of all shades
of opinion, will insure the entire success of a testimonial so
well deserved.
Sir Charles Isharn, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Borne, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., 60, Holland -street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, So nth Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbnry, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-flelds.
A A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Nottlng-hlll, W.
S. Chinnery. Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq, Snodland, Bochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Begent's-park.
A. Leighton, Esq-, 16 South Castle-street, Liverpool.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston, U.S.A.
James Wason,Esq, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq., M.D., 8, Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq, 38, Great Bussell-street, W.C..
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Vorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq, F.B.S., 2, Great Wmchester-street Buildings.
The Hon. J. O. Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of Portugal, 10, Bue
Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Col. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lamont, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Subscriptions will be received and duly acknowledged by Alexander Oalder, Esq., 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington.
VIA LUCIS.
tyOkyZofiai otf 6ifU£ sffr.i Ovpag S’iiriOetrdt j3t(3r)\oig
TLamv ofiov.
I speak unto the chosen—shut ye close
The gate ’gainst all the frivolous and gross 1—Orpheus.
Some bold thinkers have in these days hazarded the specu¬
lation that, though man may in common belief be 11 the
roof and crown of things,” the mighty sweep of evolution
may yet not come full circle in him; but, as Europeans of
the nineteenth century transcend the tailed arboreal crea¬
tures of Darwinian surmise, so in the incalculable future the
very figure of man, fondly deemed final and Godlike, may
be transfigured into a shape of unimagined glory and attri¬
butes, whose authority and capacities may even reach beyond
this planet. Such a “ vision of the world and all the wonder
that would be” rose before Win wood Reade, who dared to see
space become nothing, and the crystal battlements themselves
overthrown before the flight of man on his path to set con¬
quering feet on the very stars of the Galaxy. After all, the
thought is not strange to the current theology. The Church
has always held fast to the belief in the resurrection of the
body, and the consequent possibility of material forms rising
into higher spheres, and St. Paul declared that our bodies
though raised spiritual bodies would still be bodies ; in some
sort therefore material.
In all ages some have more or less dimly divined that the
vulgar notion of an entire change and dissolution consequent
upon death may turn out largely delusive, or under little
imagined aspects and conditions. We may change, whilst
the things around us remain unaltered, and to our changed
perceptions and conditions things may appear altered,
marred, and obscured, which in truth retain their primal
bloom and splendour, and only await the clouds of muta¬
bility to draw from around us to become again apparent.
That perfection of being and surroundings symbolised as
Paradise may be in no vague distant heaven, but be lying
very near to every one of us, only pushed out of our present
plane of vision. Not all who looked upon the thoughtful
countenance of Peter Paul Rubens in the portrait from
Windsor, in the late exhibition of old masters, may have
been aware that, like some other of the great mediaeval
painters, he was also a great spiritual theosophist. “ Para¬
dise,” says he, “is still greening where it was, and was
not destroyed by the deluge, but is only covered by the curse”
when Adam, or Man, was brought into it and became a
living soul he also by uniting in himself two eternal princi¬
ples with a temporal third principle {i.e., outward world,
there is no room for explaining this mystical doctrine), be¬
came raised above “the astral spirit of this world/’ and
attained that “ true spirit of the soul” (observe the expres¬
sion) to which a perception of the Absolute is possible; but
this w^s lost after that “deep sleep”—forerunner and
|| brother-in-law to death—into which he fell, and which in-
| volves far-reaching mystical significances. He had left and
| was departed, says Rubens, from his paradisiacal state, and
| could not have declared to his offspring the senses and
j sensations he had in the beginning, for he knew nothing
| more of them after his “ sleep.” He had removed himself
i from them, but Paradise still remained, and as Rubens ex-
I presses it, “he might be buried upon the same spot of
| ground which Paradise did green upon, yet know it not.”
Again, the poet Shelley tells of a Paradise-garden in
j which all sweetest flowers and all rare blossoms grew in
I perfect prime; this garden was tended by a wonderful
spiritual lady, and all the flowers knew her and rejoiced in
the influence that spread from her; their sweetness passed
i into her, and hers was reflected in their bloom and fragrance.
Suddenly she died, says the poet, and soon the garden and
I flowers came to perceive that she had passed away, and
j began to droop and die too; roses and lilies withered away,
I the bright, sweet-scented Indian plants fell rotting in the
I mud, and the garden, once so fair, slowly changed into a
foul, leafless wreck, or seemed to have done so, for as Shelley,
with strange spiritual intuition hints, that decay and death
haply were “ like all the rest a mockery.”
That garden sweet, that lady fair,
And all sweet shapes and odours there
In truth have never passed away,
'Tis we, 'tis ours, are changed ! not they.
For love, and beauty, and delight,
There is no death nor change : their might
Exceeds our organs, which endure
No light, being themselves obscure.
Many Spiritualist sermons might be preached on those
melodious texts. Not only does Heaven—the Paradisiacal
state—lie around us in our infancy, but always, clouded over
from sight perhaps, but close at hand. “ Man in his perfect
form is heaven,” said Swedenborg, and with still wider
meaning Rubens asserted, “ we may truly say that heaven is
in hell, and hell in heaven, seeing they are both within our¬
selves” Many seers have declared the same. The Heavenly
City that John saw descend to earth has never gone back;
those whom the oracle calls “ the lightly-armed” may to-day
scale its jewelled walls, and, even with earthly feet, “ tread
on the golden flagging of its street.” But far beyond all
gardens and paradises, however spiritualised, that still
border too much on earthly spheres, lies that unspeakable,
unimaginable, supersensual sphere, which to Dante’s still
living eyes could only be partially revealed under the simili¬
tude of the rosa Candida — that White Rose, the
symbol and expression of uncreated light, pure spirit, ab¬
solute being, freed from all taint of lower spheres. Dante,
after his long mystic journeyings through circles of Hell
and regions of Purgatory, at last rejoins Beatrice—the spot¬
less perfection possible to Humanity—and is led by her from
sphere to sphere, even to the ninth on the summit of
Highest Heaven, and thence (so mighty is Beatrice) to the
Empyrean—Light Primal and Eternal. This is what he
was permitted to behold :—
There is in heaven a Light whose goodly shine
Makes the Creator visible to all
Created, and in circle spreads so far
That the circumference were too loose a zone
To girdle in the sun.
And round about
Eying the Light, in more than million thrones
Stood eminent whatsoever from our earth
Has to the skies returned.
- In fashion as a snow-white Rose lay then
Before my view the saintly multitude
Thrice radiant: the stoles of snowy white
How numberless! how wide the countless leaves
Extended to their utmost of this Rose
Whose lowest step embosoms such a space
. Of ample radiance!
Myriad-wise meanwhile
The Angel-Host that soar aloft to gaze
Hovered around, and like a troop of bees
Amid the vernal sweets, alighting now,
Now clustering where their fragrance labour glows,
Flew downward to the Mighty Flower, or rose
From the redundant petals, streaming back
Unto the steadfast dwelling of their joy.*
Gardens and paradises of lower spheres become absorbed
and sublimated in highest heaven into the one flower of fire,
spotless and immortal, whereof Zoroaster may have had
* Carey’s translation,
March 24. 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 135
some glimpse, gradual ascent to which maybe the work and
endeavour of higher spiritual existence, as struggling from
the earth of the old paradise of the lower state.
Descending for a moment from supernal realms, let it be
remembered that Rubens declares that Adam, at his first
creation, by virtue of uniting within himself the three mystic
principles, was master of the astral spirit of this world, but
after the fatal a sleep,” Rubens goes on to say, “ he was
sunk down into time; he had opened a door for the astral
spirit of this world to come in;” that is, he became subject
to those earthly spirits to whom many now seem seeking to
open the door still wider. At the present juncture it may
be good to set down some passages from writings more than
a century old, written by men who knew their subject. They
affirm that, according to certain analogies in the created
world, “ there is a great variety, and even contrariety, among
the invisible and elementary spirits. Some may seem to
have partaken, with man, very little in the curse, others
more, and some'so much that it may well be doubted whether
they be not rather generated wholly from the curse that
entered into nature by the fall of mankind. So that, being
naturally the subjects of man, they stand with him in the
corruption, discord, and wrath of the elements ; and it may
well be expected that amongst them, from opposite and
intermediate kingdoms, there will be both wicked and lying
as also vain and trifling spirits^ of various ranks, orders, and
offices. Now, some have earnestly endeavoured to converse
with any of them indifferently, without examining of what
degree or station they might be. Others, not so easily satis¬
fied, have yet consented to a correspondence with some who
have appeared to be of the best sort. But whatever the
practice of any may have been, either for a good or an evil
end, we hold such a correspondence, of what nature soever it
be, and after what methods soever it may be carried on, to be
extremely dangerous; for, man being naturally their superior,
and they his subjects, until man shall regain his natural supe¬
riority over them, the danger may be exceeding great of
passing away the right of nature, his true birthright, and so
of making himself subject to them, whose master he ought to
be, and will be, if he be not kept down by a magnetical or
magical force in some other region below paradise.” These
passages are commended to the consideration of those who
complain of the untrustworthiness and frivolousness of me¬
diums, and the falseness and folly of communications, and
also to “Occultists.” In old days the ancient Theorists
strove to burst asunder the bonds of natural order, and to
control and subject to their service the inhabitants of the
spiritual regions. Medial and mesmeric powers were used,
according to the superiority and birthright of their humanity,
to subdue and bind intelligences essentially inferior: but
now we hear on all sides of mediums being controlled by
their directing spirits, and of messages and communications
being given under control, the purport of which often betrays
the nature of the dictating influence. There is small wonder
at the puerile tricks—the tweaks, pinches, slaps, and the
like—with which spirits disport themselves at a seance, and
they m ust chuckle when they remember how once they stood
controlled, and bowed themselves in awful obedience before
their human masters!
Lastly, to those who are impatient because no secrets or
mysteries have been revealed by spirit intercourse, be it said
that it is ever through his natural essential superiority, in¬
dicated above, that such powers and understanding truly
belong to man. He needs no help from inferior intelligences
to apprehend and discover the laws of gravitation, evolu¬
tion, and spectrum analysis. It is his prerogative and
birthright to measure the speed and weight of light and the
distances of the fixed stars, to count the moons of Jupiter,
reckon the ages of the chalk and coal, and penetrate the
composition of the rocks. In such high questionings man
needs not, and never has gained, help from the spheres of
lower intelligences. No seance will teach Tyndall or Darwin
any secrets in their own departments. Ever for man only
it is reserved to
Rift the hills, and roll the waters, flash the lightnings, weigh the sun.
Mr. Serjeant Cox has written a new book, connected with psychology,
entitled, The Mechanism of Man*
MY EXPERIENCES IN LONDON AND BRUSSELS.
(conclusion.)
BY DR. A. BUTLEROF, PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
ST. PETERSBURG.
Translated from “ Psychic Studies ” by Emily Kislingbury.
In London we made the acquaintance of M. Tiedeman-
Martheze, whose name is well known to English Spirit¬
ualists. I am indebted to this gentleman for an introduction
to a captain in the Belgian army, M. Bouvier, at Brussels,
in whose family, as we were informed by M. Martheze, a boy
of thirteen years of age, is remarkably gifted with medium-
ship. On my return journey through Brussels I took advan¬
tage of my friend’s kind recommendation, and visited the
Bouviers on the evening of my arrival there. Although it
was not the regular day on which the family hold their
weekly seance, they were nevertheless kind enough to insti¬
tute an extra sitting for my benefit. Madame Bouvier told
me that she had had three sons, the eldest of whom was
the present medium; the two others were twins, and one had
been dead for some time. Previous to his death, Madame
Bouvier had known nothing of Spiritualism, but this afflic¬
tion induced her to seek comfort from a relation who was a
writing medium. Through this lady she first derived the
information that her eldest son was a medium. The family
began to hold seances at home, and there really came to pass
sometimes during the sittings, but also spontaneously apart
from these, various remarkable occurrences in the presence
of the young boy. Some time afterwards the famous medium,
Mrs. Fay, came to Brussels, and gave a seance at M.
Bouvier’s house. After this stance the family were informed,
by means of a medial communication, that manifestations
similar to those of Mrs. Fay could be produced in the pre¬
sence of young Bouvier. A few sittings were sufficient to
develope the results which occur at present. Various persons
had been admitted to the seances, and had, as usual, made
their remarks on the subject, and given their explanations of
the so-called mediumship. As the explanations increased,
so also did the perfection of the methods by which the young
medium is now effectually secured against the possibility of
producing the manifestations by artificial means.
In my presence the boy was bound (or to use an English
term, “ secured ”) in the following manner:—His hands
were bound round firmly with a piece of linen tape, the knots
were sewed to his sleeves, his two hands were then fastened
together behind his back, and the two sleeves sewed together.
The fronts of the coat were also sewed together, so that the
coat could not be drawn off. The medium seated himself on
a low chair, with his back against the wall, into which metal
rings were screwed; the medium’s hands, fastened as de¬
scribed behind his back, were tied to one of these rings;
another linen tape, tied round his neck, was fastened to a
second ring; to a third the boy was tied by his hair, but
later, at my request, this last bond was loosed, for the
medium’s comfort. When seated, his legs were also tied to
the chair in two places above the feet and again above the
knees. The wall, against which the medium sat, the corner
of the room, and the part of the next room adjoining that
corner, were carefully examined by me. I found nothing at
all suspicious. The medium was then separated from us by
screens. These screens consisted of four or five simple
frames of wood covered with wall-paper. In the middle of
one fold, at the height of about a foot and a half from the
ground, there was a little opening closed by a door and a
curtain, about large enough for a hand to pass conveniently
in and out. The screens were about six feet in height, and
were quite uncovered at the top. During the whole time an
oil lamp and a stearine candle were burning in the room, so
that there was plenty of light. Immediately after'each
manifestation we opened the screens, and I was able by the
help of the candle to verify the position of the medium,
which I always found unchanged, and the tapes and knots
intact. This medium does not fall into trance, like some
others ; he remains in his normal state, and asserts that he
sees the movement of the objects, although he cannot tell
how they are moved. The movements begin the instant the
screens are closed. *
Without professing to give the exact order in which the
various occurrences took place, I will relate what happened
136
THE SPiRlTtlALlST?.
March 24, 1876.
that evening.- A hand-bell, placed upon the medium’s
knees, was set at once in motion; a new plank of wood,
two tacks, and a hammer were placed in the same position ;
strokes of the hammer were presently heard, but the driving
of the tacks did not succeed. I was told that until this
evening an old piece of board had always been used, and
that the new plank was probably the cause of the failure.
The strokes of the hammer were decidedly stronger as soon
as the old board was brought, and in a short time we found
one of the tacks driven completely through the wood,
which was about three-quarters of an inch thick. A sheet of
paper and a pencil were next laid upon the medium’s lap ;
for the identification of the paper I wrote my name upon it
in Russian characters. When the screens were closed, we
heard the noise of writing, and upon the paper, among other
things, was written in French: “ We are not Russians.” I
then wrote my name in French on the same paper, and again
something was written behind the screens. After the first
time of writing, we found the pencil stuck through a button¬
hole of the medium’s coat; the second time it. was found in
his mouth. A glass full of water was placed on the board
across the medium’s knees ; beside the glass was a piece of
gingerbread, and in an instant the half of the water was
drunk, and the cake between the medium’s teeth. A lucifer
match and a cigar were placed also on the board ; the match
was immediately struck, and the lighted cigar was in the
mouth of the medium. The bell was put upon the board ;
it was rung at once and pushed through the little window in
the screen; the hand which moved it was also seen for an
instant. When I put my hand in at the opening I felt a
warm little child’s hand touch mine; one of its little fingers
remained for a moment in my grasp. I expressed the wish
that the finger might melt away in my hand; but that was
not granted, and the finger was carefully withdrawn from
my hold. It would seem from this that I was in contact
with a material rather than a materialised hand ; but when
I opened the screen the next moment there sat the medium
fast bound as before. It is also remarkable that when M.
Aksakof came to Brussels a few weeks later and had a
sitting with the Bouvier family, instead of the small hand
like that of the medium which I had seen, a large hand was
presented, and was equally felt by him.
M. and Madame Bouvier are sincerely interested in
all medial phenomena, and are raised by their social posi¬
tion above all suspicion. I must add that I consider young
Bouvier one of the most interesting and gifted mediums that
I have ever seen.
SPIRIT INDIVIDUALITY.—REMARKABLE SEANCES IN
PARIS.
flV CHARLOTTE FtTZ-GERALD.
Having had, within the last three or four days, a very
interesting account given to me by Monsieur de Veh, of a
remarkable stance held recently at his house in Paris,
28, Avenue-des-Champs-Elysees, I send it to you as I took
it down from notes at the time of the recital, with merely
the correction of a few French idioms. I must com¬
mence by saying that Monsieur and Madame de Yeh made
the acquaintance of the medium, Mr. Williams, and the
spirits John and Katie King, at a seance at my house in the
year 1872, and a strong feeling of sympathy was estab¬
lished between them, so much so, that Monsieur and Madame
de Yeh invited Mr. Williams to visit them in Paris, with
a view of continuing the communion. During this visit,
when only four persons, including the medium, were pre¬
sent, at a day stance, John King having promised before¬
hand to leave some token of remembrance behind him, it
was discovered on lights being brought, that he had written
in pencil on the ceiling of the drawing-room the following
words, “ God Bless you all. Signed, John King.” (the
word bless written with a capital letter). He also wrote on
that evening the same words on a pasteboard speaking
tube. During the absence of the family in 1875, the house
was in the hands of workmen, who, in their zeal to make
everything as clean as possible, unfortunately obliterated
this inscription, a contingence M. de Yeh had omitted to
guard against. As may be imagined, this circumstance
caused deep regret to the family on their return. Madame
de Yeh, desiring very much to have this writing renewed,
wrote a letter to John King, expressing her wish that he
would find some means of doing so, and sent this letter in an
envelope to Mr. Williams’ address, 61, Lamb’s-conduit-street.
She had carefully sealed her letter to John King, at the
four corners, as well as at the centre, with sealing-wax
bearing the impressions of Monsieur de Yeh’s coat-of-arms.
In the envelope she wrote a few words to Mr. Williams,
requesting him to give the letter to John King, but without
the slightest hint of its contents. Mr. Williams shortly
returned the letter she had addressed to John King, with
every seal and its impression perfectly intact, accompanied
by a few words informing her that he had done as she
requested, and that John King had said in answer that he
would try to do what she wished, as soon as the medium
Firman had recovered from the evil influences with which he
had found himself surrounded in the French prison. At a
seance with the medium Firman, held a fortnight after
receiving this missive back again from Mr. Williams, the
presence of the spirit John King was distinctly felt and
remarked on by everyone of the sitters present. Mons. de
Yeh, as well as Madame de Yeh, felt his large hands on
their shoulders, pressing and shaking them in a friendly
and affectionate manner, and each of them received the
impress of a kiss upon their foreheads. He then, in his
well-known deep bass voice, hailed them in his cheery
manner as usual by their Christian names, viz.) Mary and
Gustave! At the close of the seance) when the candles
were lighted, to the great astonishment of all present, but
mostly so of the host and hostess, the words—“ God Bless
you all. John King,” were seen written on the ceiling over
their heads. There were the same peculiar characters, with
the word Bless again commencing with a capital letter.
Monsieur de Yeh compared this writing with that on the
speaking tube, which had been preserved, and all declared
the writing to be identically the same. It is to be remarked
that in the inscription left on the ceiling, there seemed to be
some uncertainty in the power of writing at first, as the
word “God/’ was indistinct, but repeated a second time,
firmly and clearly. The difficulty was attributed to the still
weak state of the medium Firman.
19, Gambridge-street, Hyde-park-square, March 16th, 1876.
iProbincial Hetois.
LIVERPOOL.
18 IT JUGGLERY?
Mr. Walter Isaac, healing medium, accompanied by Mr. Coatea,
visited, on Sunday afternoon, the gentleman in whose presence it was
asserted that card figures could be made to dance about by mesmeric
influence. Mr. Coates says that the dolls, which are simply made of
cardboard, jointed at the head, elbows, thighs and knees, with a piece
of thread, were handed round for examination ; nothing could be
detected about them. After holding them in his hands for a minute,
the exhibitor placed one in an upright position on the top of a tray, and
then took his hands away from it, except occasionally making passes
over it. A gentleman then played a simple dance air on the piano, the
doll dancing all the time like a lively little mannikin. During the per¬
formance (which took place in full light) the operator took his hands
away, and sat in an apparently passive condition within nine inches or
one foot of the object. The visitors were unable to detect anything
like an attempt at conjuring, and were utterly unable to account for
the facts. One gentleman said it was an adroit piece of conjuring.
Mr. Coates says that the operator calls it “ animal magnetism.” Mr.
Coates sat next to the operator, within eighteen inches of the dolls, and
could not discover any material support; he declares that no human
being came in actual contact with the objects moved so intelligently,
either with hands, wires, or hairs ; also that the objects could not stand,
much less dance, without support. The gentleman has consented to
repeat his experiment before a select party at the Psychopathic Institute.
He declines publicity.
Mr. Walter Isaac, of 11, Rishton-street, Everton, says he re-visited the
gentleman he mentioned in the paper he read before the Psychological
Society, but could get no definite information how the thing was done.
The gentleman in question was polite but reticent; he showed the ex¬
periment at once, and allowed visitors to draw their own conclusions ;
he is also desirous “ not to be bothered by modern Spiritualists.”
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
At the last meeting of - the Liverpool Psychological Society, Mr.
Coates, in compliance with previous request, delivered an address on
“ Cerebral Physiology and Dr. Ferrier’s Experiments.” He read an extract
from a Scotch paper describing Ferrier’s experiments, and he traced
the relationship they bore to the researches of Drs. Gall, Spurzheim,
]37
Marcs 24, 1876.
THE STIEITTJALIST.
and Combe, as physiologists and phrenologists. He, for the benefit
of the younger members, gave a description of the brain, and explained
the meaning of the technical terms used by medical men and
phrenologists in the arrangement and classification of brain matter,
and its encasement, the skull. He traced the protuberance, called by
phrenologists the organ of the love of young or philoprogenitiveness,
through insects, fishes, amphibious animals, as compared with the deposit¬
ing of their eggs and the care of their young ; interesting illustrations
were afforded in the cricket, ant, and bee. Ferrier’s experiments with
animals demonstrated, he said, that these convolutions were much larger
in females than males. The redeeming feature in the less cultivated
branches of the human race, the Greenlander, the Esquimaux, or the
Eed Indian for instance, was this “ love of young.” And it was always
found that where this quality was manifested, there was the corresponding
organ. It would be well, he argued, if, with all our boasted civilisation,
there was amongst us a little more of the savage nature, to teach us to
nourish and protect innocent, helpless youth, to teach mothers to nurse
their own children a little more, and practise less shopping, driving,
outside show, now substituted for the true motherhood. In this men
could take a lesson from the fox, cow, deer, or dog, and from the ice¬
bound savage. The organ being greater in female than male skulls,
there was no great difficulty in being able to tell which was which. Mr.
Ainsworth (vice-president) said it was evident that the lecturer was not
a novice, although he claimed to be such. He had in the two lectures
delivered on the subject, dealt with the subject in a masterly and
scientific manner, and speaking on behalf of the society, he felt'grateful
to Mr. Coates for the instruction his lectures had afforded. A discussion
followed, in which Messrs. Chapman, Procter and Linton (phrenologists)
took part, Mr. Coates then examined several heads.
Mr. J. Lamont will, on next Friday, read a paper before the Liverpool
Psychological Society on the “ Mediumship of Mrs. Hemans.”
The “ Bamford Boys ” are expected to pay a visit to Liverpool, and
will give seances in public and private. Mr. Coates will have the charge
of arrangements. He wishes mediums about to visit the provinces to
place themselves in communication with him.
Sunday Services.—Last Sunday, at the rooms of the Psychological
Society, Islington, Liverpool, Dr. Wm. Hitchman delivered an address
on “ My Prose and Verse.” It was listened to throughout with interest.
In the Evening Mr. John Priest occupied the platform, and gave a
lecture on “ Spirituality.”
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
Miss Fairlamb is still very successful in obtaining good manifestations.
On Tuesday, the 14th inst., at the Freemasons’ Old Hall, she was
securely corded around the wrists, arms, and body, the knots being
placed at the bottom rail of the back of the chair, by Mr. Davison, who
is an expert at tying; she was then placed in the cabinet, with a
dulcimer m the corner. The crowning point of the evening’s seance
was the throwing open of the curtains, showing the spirit “ Cissey ”
standing about a yard away from the medium,* who also was seen
fully, and was talking; at the same time the dulcimer was being
vigorously fingered in the opposite corner of the cabinet. At the ter¬
mination of the seance the cords and knots were perfectly secure. On
the Thursday evening following, the medium had not been in the cabinet
many seconds before “ Cissey,” speaking through the medium, informed
Mr. Davison that another spirit was untying her medium, and shortly
afterwards the cords were thrown out of the cabinet, and, after they
had been examined to see if they were the same, were returned
again. A spirit showed his face through the division of the curtains,
but on this occasion, at the same time, a leg, bare from the foot to
above the knee, protruded through the lower portion of the curtain,
and, with the toes, played upon the dulcimer outside. The curtains,
when again flung wide open, showed a small figure standing near the
medium, but the drapery covered, not only the figure, but the medium ;
and, at one time, the medium only was seen, covered from head to foot
in white, as she sat in the chair; this was rather suggestive that the
medium could be, or is, used by the spirit to personate characters when
it suits their purpose. At the close of the seance Miss Fairlamb was
found again secured by cords, supposed to be the work of a spirit who
evidently was not over tender with the medium, as the cords when un¬
fastened left marks round her wrists and throat. There were present
at this stance about twenty members, including Messrs. Armstrong,
Pickup, Nicholson, Mould, Davison, Hunter, Coltman, Miss Coltman,
Mrs. Fairlamb, myself, and others. No strangers or visitors were pre¬
sent.—J. T. Rhodes.
Letters continue to be inserted in the Newcastle Daily Journal on
Spiritualism, some of them suggesting that the mediums be handed over
to the police, others that the spirit be shot at as a test; but the Express
of Wednesday 15th, after quoting from The Spiritualist of the 10th,
nearly the whole of the matter referring to “ Hafed ” and Messrs.
Cassell, suggests a flogging seance for deceiving spirits, “ if they can
be produced in the flesh.”
A New Circle.—Mrs. Nichols, of 57, Elswick East Terrace, New¬
castle, has formed a circle for investigators. She has two daughters
and one son, all of them in different stages of development as mediums ;
besides trance mediumship they are getting a little in the way of
physical phenomena. One or two more earnest investigators can obtain
admittance to the circle on application.
Mr. Nicholas Morgan has been giving a course of phrenological
lectures and illustrations of mesmeric phenomena in the Lecture Hall,
Nelson-street, Newcastle, to good audiences.
* Was the spirit beyond doubt living and moving, and were the features
seen ? How much light was there ?—Ed.
The Secretary of the Newcastle Society desires to acknowledge the
receipt from Mr. J. Scott, of Belfast, of a large parcel of books for the
library—a copy of Spirit People and of the Trapped Medium, also six
volumes of the Medium, and one volume each of the Religio-Philoso-
phical Journal and Banner of Light, also other books from different
donors, for which the society is much obliged.
TRANSACTIONS OF
THE NATIONAL
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OP THE COUNCIL.
ASSOCIATION OF
At the meeting of the Council of the National Association of
Spiritualists, held March 14th, at 38, Great Russell-street, thirteen new
members were elected, among whom were Mr. and Mrs. R. Campbell,
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis, Miss Emily Fitzgerald, Mrs. R. Maitland, Mrs. T.
Allsop ; also Mr. A. J. Smart, and Mr. H. C. Emery, both of the Car¬
diff Spiritual Society.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the Finance Committee.
The accounts showed a balance in hand of £129 9s. 2d. Payments
were recommended to the amount of £43 Is. Od.
A letter was read from the hon. secretary of the Dalston Association,
nominating Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen to represent that Association on
the Council of the National Association. An application was also
made on behalf of the Cardiff Spiritual Society, which desired to enter
into alliance with the National Association. It was resolved unani¬
mously that such alliance be entered into.
A letter was read from Mr. W. H. Harrison, in which the question
was raised whether a chief society could be made legally responsible
for the debts of societies in alliance with it; it was decided to place
this question in the hands of the Finance Committee for due inquiry.
Letters were also read from Mr. Robert Dale Owen, M. Constant, Mr.
G. Blyton, and Mr. H. Susmann.
The secretary announced that Mr. Christian Reimers had presented
the Association with a cast of a spirit hand taken at Manchester; also
with a cast of the hand of the medium through whom the cast was
produced. A vote of thanks was passed to Mr. Reimers.
The Offices Committee recommended that the rooms at 38, Great
Russell-street be closed from April 13th to 20th inclusive for cleaning
purposes. This was agreed to.
Mr. Rogers reported that the Offices Committee, “ while still believ¬
ing that under the circumstances it would be better for the interests pf
the Association for Mr. Harrison to have taken independent premises,
in accordance with his intention expressed in his notice to the Council,
have, nevertheless, considered the duty assigned to them of bringing
before the next meeting of the Council a definite form of agreement
with Mr. Harrison for the use of his present office, and have resolved
unanimously :—
“ That the Council be asked to agree to a resolution that Mr.
Harrison shall not, after a certain date to be mutually determined upon,
use the address, 38, Great Russell-street, as a publishing address, and
to obtain Mr. Harrison’s consent to this previous to the committee
going further into the matter.”
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald argued that the offices committee had de¬
parted from the spirit of the resolution passed by the special council
meeting by a majority of 19 to 2, and moved the following amend¬
ment : “ That the recommendation of the offices committee be referred
back to them, with the request that they consider only the pecuniary
terms on which Mr. Harrison can be allowed to continue the occupa¬
tion of the room now occupied by him.”
The votes on the amendment were 9 for, 7 against; the resolution to
adopt the recommendation of the offices committee was carried by
10 to 6. It was then resolved unanimously, on the motion of Mr.
George King, “ That the finance committee be requested to carry the
resolution of the offices committee into effect.”
The Secretary read the report of the prize essays committee, recom¬
mending that the essays be printed, with a notice prominently setting
forth that the association is in no way to be held responsible for the
opinions of the writers. The same committee was reappointed to act
for the year ensuing.
The seance committee reported that Mr. Charles Blackburn had
generously offered to bear the cost of a series of a dozen seances with
Mr. Eglinton, to be held at 38, Great Russell-street, under the auspices
of the Association. A cordial vote of thanks was passed to Mr. Black¬
burn in accepting this offer.
The provincial committee reported that Dr. Sexton had been engaged
to give ten lectures in the north of England during the month of
April; the lecturer’s fees is to be defrayed by the Association, the
local societies or Spiritualists bearing other expenses.
A notice of motion was handed in from Mr. Tapp : “ That in addi¬
tion to the general meeting in May, a second general meeting be held
in November of each year.”
Mr. Rogers gave notice that he should move for a consideration of
the terms on which privileges could be interchanged between the
National Association and Allied Societies.
The Secretary gave information that at the next council meeting the
arrangements for the general meeting of members in May, and for the
election of the new council would have to be considered.
The Offices Committee of the National Association consists of Mr.
and Mrs. Everitt, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mr. J. Freeman, and Mr. E. T.
Bennett.
A Meeting at Islington.—Last Friday night a social gathering
inaugurated by Mrs. Bullock, was held at 91, Church-street, Upper
street, Islington, under the presidency of Mr. Swindon, to welcome
Mrs. Butterfield, a trance medium, well known in the north of England,
and who has just paid a temporary visit to London. Speeches and
trance addresses were made, and a pleasant evening spent.
135
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 24,1876.
THE PSYCHOLOGrICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN. j,
On Thursday evening, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting i!
of the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish- |<
square, London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided. |
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed. i
THE LOSS OF THE STRATHMORE.
The President read an account from the Scotsman newspaper about j|
the loss of the Strathmore, setting forth that when the owners did i
not know what had become of it, information of its loss was given,
through a medium, and the information that some of the passengers |j
had found their way to an island.
Mr. Serjeant Cox continued, that after first reading the said para- j
graph, he thought it his duty to inquire into the facts, so he wrote to i
Mr, Bruce, the manager and owner of the vessel, asking him whether |
tlie printed report was true. Mr. Bruce replied that it was quite a fact j)
that after he had given up the ship for lost a gentleman wrote to him ;
that he and his wife had heard that the vessel was wrecked in the ;
manner stated, and that a number of the passengers and crew had \)
found their way to an island. He (Mr. Bruce) [had not the letter \
with him, or he would have given more exact particulars.
Mr. Gordon asked whether the prophecy had been made after the ; |
vessel had been posted as missing at Lloyds.
The President replied that the information had been given in Novem- | j
her, and that the loss was not known until the following February. He i
did not think much of the case himself; it might turn out to be mere :
coincidence.
THE PROBLEM OF THE SPIRITUAL NATURE OF THE UNIVERSE.
Mr. F. K. Munton, the honorary secretary, read a paper by Mr. Bray (|
upon Consciousness. The author argued that all creation might be at jjl
root of a spiritual, and not of a material nature. He said that men i) i
knew nothing but their own thoughts and perceptions, wherefore, in j j |
striving to gain accurate knowledge of the world around them, the ijl
nature of their own consciousness—of their thoughts and feelings— i)j
should be examined, before attempting to study other modes of motion j (i
which were known as physical science. Was not the outside world an i)|
illusion and delusion, intended to answer some special purpose ? An /:
arbitrary division had been set up between the physical and mental j\!
forces; yet they were clearly related to each other. The best temporary ) i
cure for love, for instance, was a thirty miles walk, because when a man ) \
expended strength in that way he had less left for thinking and feeling. \{\
Might not all forces be mental at root ? The perceptions of man could ;) i
not tell him much of the real nature of the world; and might not all 11 i
being be but a mode of motion of the Universal Mind ? He argued j(j
that space was purely subjective, existing only in the mind of God.
Dr. Shaw said that he was disappointed with the paper, and wished 1(1
that the author had said something more tangible and intelligible, for i j
the memoir was such a mixture and a muddle that it was a discredit- |) I
able thing to send to that society. He had not gained any single new |(l
idea from it, and could not take up any part of the subject. One great jjl
fault in it was that the author had not defined what he meant by ;
consciousness.
THE ENERGY CONSUMED IN MENTAL OPERATIONS.
Mr. Coffin said that he wished that the author of the paper had been I / j
present, in order that a few questions might have been put to him, more I
especially about his idealistic theory. He, however, did not wish to hj
speak upon that point, but upon some physiological questions which had ) |
been raised. Of late mathematics had been applied to physiological j:i
changes, and had given evidence that there was a real relation between |) j
tangible force and the ideas or thoughts of man. Physiologists saw in j)j
the molecules of the brain a condition where power was potential; i j i
they could prove that at one time the white or grey matter of the brain ;) j
was endowed with potential energy ready to produce thought, and that
that energy in falling was changed into ideas. Recently some very Hi
interesting experimental observations had been made in this matter, i
and it had been discovered that brain matter, after giving out energy, i j I
required some supply of force from outside before it was again able to i) i
elaborate ideas. The oxygen which was so loosely connected with the |) i
blood appeared to re-supply the energy. The relative rapidity of the |ji
circulation of the blood through the brain could be measured, by ascer- !) j
taining the flow of the blood through another part of the body. An >;
instrument had been made which not only measured the pulse, but j |
showed the amount of blood flowing through any part of the body, such j) j
as the arm, for instance. A portion of the arm was enclosed in a |i
vessel, and as that portion of the arm expanded or contracted, the
change was made measurable by the rise and fall of the barometric I) i
column, so that the relative amount of blood passing through the jH
organism could be measured. Supposing this apparatus to be attached j i
to one arm, if any physical work was done by another part of the body, |) i
blood was abstracted from the arm. Blood also was abstracted when I j |
additional mental work was performed. When a person was asleep j)i
there would be most blood in the arm. As the activity of the brain I) j
increased, the limb decreased in size, and it diminished still more if the jH
subject began to read a book. Further, if he were puzzled by any j\|
problem and tried to solve it, there was a still greater diminution of j
blood in the arm. He thought that Mr. Bray stultified himself by H
taking up the idealistic side of the problem when speaking about light, :; j
the objectivity of which was known by its waves producing other effects jH
than those of light and colour.
Mr. Gordon thought that it was rather hard to find fault with the i) i
paper, because perhaps the listeners had not had the time, and had not j | j
taken the trouble, to fathom the theory which the author set forth; for jH:
it was impossible to deal with a memoir like Mr. Bray’s in an off-hand jjj
manner. If the author had summed up the results of his paper in a k
few sentences it would have been better. He thought that if Mr. Bray j( |
had carefully studied Locke he would have seen that that writer had iii
advanced arguments proving the fallacy of the visionary theory that
the world is not objective. Mr. Bray had said that colour-blindness
was due to the absence of some part of the brain, whereas it was due to
incapacity on the part of a part of the eye to detect red in combination
with other colours. Mr. Bray had said that instinct was memory once
removed, yet children had instincts from birth which could not be due
to memory.
Mr. Pike remarked that he had been favourably impressed with some
of the speculations of Mr. Bray, and more by the ideas which his paper
suggested than by those which it actually contained. He felt consider¬
ably indebted to Mr. Bray for what he had written. The statements
made by Mr. Coffin were very interesting, and bore relation to the fact
that at times a man’s hat would feel too small for him, and his feet
would grow cold; this showed that his head was temporarily enlarging,
and was one of the first symptoms of mental derangement. Some
experiments had recently been tried on the Continent, to prove that
coloured light had an influence for good or for evil upon lunatics—that
it had some„direct power over their mental-faculties. The Daily News of
about a week previously had printed an excellent summary of what had
been ascertained by experiments in this direction, and the account was
intensely interesting; it was one of the most valuable articles he had
seen in any daily newspaper for a long time. He was glad to be able
to state that in one of the lunatic asylums in this country, experiments
of the same kind were about to be made, not merely by reflecting white
light from coloured walls, but by passing the light through coloured
glass as it entered the room in which the patients were confined.
The President said that he had listened to the paper with great
interest, but the author had given him no information as to the nature
of consciousness : he seemed, in applying mental principles to physics, to
have landed himself in the same difficulty in which physical philosophers
were placed when they attempted to apply physical laws to things of the
mind. The conservation of energy was one of the greatest discoveries
of modern science, but the real question at issue was, did physical laws
of that kind extend to the mind? Was mind anything more than the
product of the brain ? If the law of the conservation of energy were
applicable to the mind, the activity of the latter must be derived from
the food taken into the body; if this were so, the conclusion would be
that the man who exercised his mind most must require most food,
whereas the fact usually was that the man who exercised his mind least
consumed most food. Weston, the American walker, who, if he recol¬
lected rightly, had marched 2,000 miles in an incredibly short time, took
so little food that the energy derived from that source appeared to bear
no proportion to the amount of exercise performed. The reports in The
Lancet showed that during his first walk of 1,000 miles he lost only four
pounds in weight, and ate very little food. Reasoning from physical
grounds, one would have expected him to be reduced to a skeleton; but
the facts pointed towards the conclusion that much of the energy in his
body came from something else than his food, in short, from nervous or
mental energy. Such energy, he thought, was not subject to the laws of
physical force. If so, of what nature was this mental energy ? If these
ideas of his were right, they tended to show that there was something
more within man than mere matter.
Mr. Gordon remarked that, three or four generations back, all the
male members of his family were colour-blind, but none of the women.
Mr. Munton announced that at the next meeting of the society, a
paper by the President would be read upon the subject of “ The psycho¬
logy of wit and humour.”
The proceedings then closed.
Speculations by the Duke of Argyll.—-The following extract from
an article by the Duke of Argyll, entitled “ Animal Instinct,” which
appeared in the Contemporary Review some time ago, indicates the
writer’s belief in mediumship :—“ That the human mind is always in
some degree, and that certain individual minds have been in a special
degree, reflecting surfaces, as it were, for the verities of the unseen and
eternal world, is a conception having all the character of coherence
which assures us of its harmony with the general constitution and cause
of things. We are derived and not original. We have been created,
or—if any one likes the phrase better—we have been ‘ evolved,’ not,
however, out of nothing, nor out of confusion, nor out of lies, but out of
‘.Nature,’ which is a word for the sum of all Existence, the source of all
Order, and the very ground of all Truth, the Fountain in which all
fulness dwells.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Miss Eagar and Mr. E. W. Wallis,
trance mediums, visited the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism on Thursday evening last week. There were also present
Mrs. M. T. Wood, Mr. R. P. Tredwen, Mrs. A. Comer, Mr. A. E.
Lovell, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr. A. Vaughan, from Paris, Mr. E. Dottridge,
Miss Corner, Mr. R. N. Dawson, Mr. J. Rouse, Miss Nina Corner, Mr.
H. Sayer, Mr. R. Cocker, Mrs. Eagar, Mr. Lucas de Caux, and Mr.
Thomas Blyton, the hon. secretary. The seance was opened by Mr. R.
Cocker reading a passage of Scripture, and by the singing of a hymn ;
then Miss Eagar, under influence, delivered an invocation, after which
Mr. Wallis was controlled by a spirit, who made a few introductory
remarks, and sang a song in what he afterwards stated to be an Indian
dialect; in reply to an inquiry as to the subject of the song, he ex¬
plained that it was one of thanksgiving for his success and happiness.
A description of several spirits said to be near various members was
given through the mediumship of Miss Eagar, but none of whom were
clearly identified. An address was also delivered through Mr. Walhs,
in the course of which the subject of the responsibilities of mediums
was dealt with. The controlling intelligence gave the name of Benja¬
min George Endworthy. Mr. John Rouse described various spirits,
and also a vision relating apparently to the Arctic Expedition. A
unanimous vote of thanks was accorded to Miss Eagar and Mr. Wallis
for their services, after which the proceedings were brought to a close.
March 24, 1876. tfHte SPIftITtTALlST. 139
THE GOLDEN AGE. ! j
The following is part of a public address given through m
the trance mediumship of Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan:— ij!
The time will come, when, instead of the necessary m
appliances of the magnetic telegraph, mind will converse |)|
with mind though thousands of miles intervene. Already |ji
clairvoyance, mesmerism, and spiritual power have developed m
this in individual cases. That which individuals can do now, m
will finally become the property and possession of the whole jsj
world, and it will not be strange nor miraculous, if, by and m
by, you shall speak to those who are across the wide waters ||j
of the Atlantic, with the power of thought, thinking your K|
thoughts, they responding in intelligent and continuous con- |)j
versation. Why shall this not be done, since time and m
space and all that belongs to substances in nature, are m
amenable to the power of the spirit, and cannot prevent its jjj
growth? The time will come when, instead of the cumber- m
some methods of mechanism that now exist, methods which m
in their turn far transcend those that have hitherto been j|j
employed, there will be subtle forces, so subtle and potent, j||
that with the very thought man can shatter the fabric of this Kj
temple, or move any object in the external world. A jjl
Napoleon governs the armies of the world, and yet the staple ||!
thought that lies behind all these movements is not even !(|
known, nor can science discover its existence. The vast m
armies of the world move on to their destruction by the j |
will-power of a single man, and yet science has not deter- i||
mined what that will-power is. If man can sway a man to jjj
do the work of destruction and of creation; if cities can be jjS
upreared, as if by magic, beneath the hand of controlling j j
genius and commerce; if temples can be erected outvying jjj
the structures of the universe in their symmetry and j j
harmony, all by the invisible thought that shapes humanity jjj
to do its bidding, what may not be done when another stage j j
of science has been introduced, and another strata of thought jjj
prevail in the world ? Behold ! there shall be also creation, jjj
That which man does in shaping himself now to the seemingly j j
inexorable laws of nature, he shall do still more and more by jjj
understanding these processes; and if he can shape the j j
lily and the rose to a loftier and more perfect bloom, he j j
shall by and by out of the empty air create the lily and jj
the rose, and see them bloom before his conscious- jjj
ness. Even as nolv he does in degree, so he shall j j
then do fully. You know that you raise your hand, but you jjj
do not know by what power you do it. You have not even jjj
a knowledge of the sublime mechanism that connects the j j
will-power with the structure that you inhabit; how shall you jj
then deify and perfect it if you do not know that which is jj!
most essential, the connecting link between the mind and jjj
the body? And when this connecting link is known, and j j
when this will power fully shaped to the harmony of nature, jjj
behold ! instead of the decaying forms and bodies that are jjj
overcome with disease, you will say to the disease, Depart! jjj
and it will depart, even as the Healer bade it do with those jjj
that came after Him. It is no miracle that healing is per- jjj
formed by the spirit. It is rather a cumbersome imitation j j
that makes man resort to drugs and poison for the removal j j
of all disease. It is rather the penalty you pay by being j j
wedded to the grosser forms of matter. But when the spirit j j
abides, there shall be no necessity for these outward methods j j
of healing, no necessity for these outward methods of con- j j
straction, but it you be robbed of a part, by what is con- j |
sidered accident, the power of atomic structure may again, j j
by the rapid succession of atoms, make that structure whole, jjj
And the time will come when all the atoms of the earth’s j j
surface have been ground over in the great mills of life, to j j
the perfection and refinement required, when the G-olden Age j j
shall come upon earth, and when man shall abide here, not j j
chained and lettered by organic law, and the slow process of j j
human decay, but abide here as a voluntary spirit in mate- j
rialised form, of which he himself has evoked the process by j
the laws which we have named. And he will abide here at jj
the pleasure of his own will, and he will abide here in full con- jj
sonance with the spiritual laws of the universe. All the j
struggles of the past, all the epochs of time and change, all the j
mystery, sorcery, and magic of science, the wonderful revela- jj
tions of religion have been to this end, that the golden epoch ij
shall come, when man shall not be enslaved by matter, but i(
shall rather vanquish even every atom and every element;
the winds and waves do his bidding; the rays of the sun and
the lightning become his swiftest messengers, and all life
and all beauty be made to harmonise with the glories of the
spirit. Then shall the desert be made to blossom as the
rose ; then shall the fountain spring in the wilderness, and
then shall the rocky caves yield back the sounds of life, and
the ocean waves shall no more engulf human forms in de¬
struction and despair; for man shall abide on earth, the
king, the conqueror of all these substances, and under the
Infinite Spirit he shall move on, clasping hands with those
mighty angels that do His work in worlds afar off.—
Spiritual Scientist.
DE PROFUN MS.
The dead! the countless dead! and are they lying
Within the heavy shadow of the tomb ?
And do we sadly say of them, with sighing,
And falling tears, and hearts oppressed with gloom:
“ They sleep in grassy churchyards without motion;
In silent vaults, that Time, stem sexton! fills,
In solemn forests; ’neath the waves of ocean;
In deserts, snows, and hollows of the hills.
“ The shifting phantasms of our joy and sorrow,
Passing unheeded of their veiled eye
From the dim yesterday, the dawning morrow,
The palpitating now, shut out for aye !”
Oh heaven! shall birds come back with summer-hours,
Yet life for them no circling seasons bring ?
Shall vernal airs awake the sleeping flowers,
And for God’s Acre shall there bloom no spring ?
Hark! how in clear assent or dim surmises,
From every human soul that e’er drew breath,
From every heart that ever loved, uprises
A living protestation against death!
The very savage, through wild woodlands roaming,
The swart barbarian of every name,
And peasant-legends whispered in the gloaming,
And old wives’ wisdom, put our doubts to shame.
Affirming still, on simple faith of seeing,
The signet-impress, by the Master’s hand,
(The pledge and promise of continued being),
Stamped in the instincts that Himself hath planned.
These twilight glimpses ever brighter growing,
And wider, as the mounting day ascends,—
To our glad vision broader vistas showing,
And richer gardens of related ends;
At length the old shall shine in newest glory;
And science, ending where the heart began,
Shall justify each high prophetic story
Whose rhymes are graven in the soul of man!
Then, quickened by the rays of that high dawning,
His scattered members gathered into one,
The soul of man shall rise in that new morning;
And as a giant his proud race shall run.
And we shall scale, through that sublime conspiring,
The widening gyres of Being’s glorious scope ;
And life o’ertop our loftiest aspiring
With fulness ever nobler than our hope!
Then shall the mystic brazen veil be lifted,
And Isis in her beauty stand revealed;
Then angels plant, through clouds for ever rifted.
The shining ladder to the starry field ;
And we shall see that through the boundless regions
Of this great universe, so wisely made,
Is nothing lost; but all its various legions
Cohere in service and in mutual aid;—
That there’s a vital, sentient tide that courses
Through every atom; what we call Decay,
The ceaseless action of the living forces,
Impelling it upon its upward way.
Then shall we know that every seeming Ending
['<. Is but a new and happier phase Begun,
Extremes of orbed movement ever blending
In golden cycles round the Eternal Sun.
All doubts beneath that Central Fire dissolving,
With raptured seraph-vision shall we range
Through singing worlds, round Love Divine revolving,
And say, “ There is no Death, hut only Change! ”
From “ Poems by Anna Blackwell,” 1853.
dTomaponTience.
[Greatfreedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
ELEMENTARY SPIRITS.
Sir,—In a letter which you were good enough to insert on the 14th
January last, I threw out a suggestion that the moral contradictions of
the human character, and the moral conflict in the human will, might be
due to the fact that our organism is the synthesis of spiritual elements,
140 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 24, 1876.
which, in their free and separate activity, are manifested in the lower
forms of life. “ Every element of the human character, every trait of
human intellect, is represented and symbolised by instincts and apti¬
tudes in the lower orders of animals. . . . In the conflict of these hete¬
rogeneous elements, in the struggle between these opposing tendencies,
brought together in a single organism, consists the dramatic interest of
man’s moral life, and, again, as one or other of them predominates in
the individual, the strife, the progress and development of societies.”
And reading the other day, in Monsell’s Gnostic Heresies, an account
of Basilides, I came across the following passage: “Basilides and his
followers, according to Clement, called the passions of men irpocapTrifiara,
or appendages, and regarded them as spirits appended to the rational
soul in consequence of a, certain disturbance and confusion of principles /
with these were connected other spurious spirits of different natures,
such as those of the wolf, the ape, the lion, or the goat, or even of
plants and minerals, which form desires in the soul of a similar kind.’’
It seems to me that this idea has an almost necessary place in any
system of spiritual evolution, and is also significant of the high vocation
and destiny of man. That man was created to rule over nature and
her productions is a mere rhetorical commonplace in its obvious and
external meaning, but perhaps a very profound truth in its spiritual
signification. To take up the discordant elements of nature, to suborn
and subordinate them to and in harmony with a higher principle, is not
this just the spiritual work of man ? And if he does this work, may he
not be called with some propriety the redeemer of nature ?
The figurative language by which we express the conflict within us
when the sovereign will has abdicated, or is in abeyance, represents us
as passive, without unity or individuality, the battle ground of opposing
forces. We are “distracted,” “torn asunder,” “impelled,” “re¬
strained,” &c. It would be as correct to say that our passions are con¬
scious in us as that we are conscious of our passions, except that for
“ passions g in the first expression, it would be necessary to substitute
the name of the living active spirit that is asserting itself in our orga¬
nisms. Are we so sure of our individuality ? Schopenhauer and Cole¬
ridge * placed this in the will as the essential principle of personality.
According to current phraseology and ideas, “ I ” am or have a single
will, actuated by motives. Now, motive, or “ desire,” is simply inchoate
will. It gathers force, and is said to be irresistible, and to determine
will. I would rather say that it gathers force, and becomes will. We
give the complex of these desires the name of “ human nature,” not
recognising them as living forces, once, perhaps, conscious and indepen¬
dent lords of simpler organisms than ours. So long as our individuality
only manifests itself in giving expression to these forces, what is it ? A
self made up of them, a desire for the gratification of all desires, a will
to recreate them all in potency and act! Perhaps the “ enthusiasts ” of
all pure religions and all true philosophies may have been right, and it
is only when man has made a sacrificial holocaust of his “ nature ” that
he will find himself, A Student of Theosophy.
ON WHAT CONDITIONS HAVE ORGANISATIONS THE RIGHT TO LIVE ? |) ]
Sir,—In late numbers of your excellent journal ydu have commented i)!
on the natuie and value of organisations, and I, for one, must express !) j
my sympathy with the greater part of your remarks. j (j
There is one point, however, in the relation of organisation to Spirit- i (|
ualism which I think yet remains to be brought forward, and which I j )l
have hitherto refrained from mentioning, on account of the offence | (i
which will probably arise from my doing so, but which, at the present i )|
juncture, will be well received by some of your more thoughtful | i
readers. In
In the early days of a movement, that movement is entirely indebted i !
for its growth and diffusion to those who are, from no seeking or merit |)!
of their own, its unconscious or rather involuntary instruments. The j(j
art of which they are the inspired media, being hitherto unknown, and | \ \
not yet reducible to rules which may be acquired by study, the obseiver i )|
is dependent upon the instrument which wills, or is willed, to produce | < j
what he may for the benefit of others. The instrument being not only j)!
sentient, but sensitive, the constant ebb and flow of his emotions is \)\
found to affect in a material degree the already transient phenomena in j (i
such a manner as to»cause them to elude the grasp and lire out the jij
patience of all but a chosen few. It is found that the only way to
command the constant production of the desired results, is to humour I j j
the instrument, and to resort to all possible methods of keeping it in hi
good tune. But alas for the instrument! being mortal, it is injured by j )j
flattery and spoiled by humouring, and, like all spoiled children, ends in j (j
becoming the tyrant of those who thought to apply it to their own ends. | jj
Then comes the time for setting the house in order, and for putting i) |
each one in the place to which he rightly belongs; then let him that j (i
ruleth do it with diligence, and him that serveth with humility; so |) i
shall chaos be reduced to order, and the reign of peace and prosperity j | j
shall begin. j Jj
Something of this kind seems to be the natural course of every great i) |
social or religious movement, and the signs of the times show that j) |
Spiritualism is no exception to the usual order. I j!
Hitherto Spiritualism has been indebted to its mediums, especially jH
its physical mediums, for the astounding phenomena which ushered it | )|
into life. For a time all true believers sat open-mouthed at the feet of Is!
its inspired teachers, and judgment was swallowed up in faith. Then I; |
came the Nicodemuses, with doubting questions; but no answer I) j
which the adepts were in a position to give could recommend itself to | (j
the reason of the sceptic. The physicist tried to weigh and balance, but j) j
only succeeded in taking a few outside measurements, declaring that I) j
what he could not fathom was not there. I s |
At length a few of those who, though well within the ranks of the j) j
* See Green’s Spiritual Philosophy, which is a developed exposition of in
Coleridge’s views. i) I
great army, were sufficiently elevated to see beyond the present position,
perceived that for want of guidance and good generalship, and from its
ever-increasing numbers, the mass was becoming unwieldy and un¬
manageable, and that some effort must be made to reduce it to order, to
choose out the most efficient and experienced as its leaders, and to
entrust them with the guidance. Moreover, the leadership was being
assumed by those who were totally unfitted for the high posts to which
they had been borne on the shoulders of the multitude, and if the
onward march was to be well directed, such as these must be dispos¬
sessed of the chief power by degrees.
And now comes the point of contest. Is this great spiritual movement
to be guided in. the same way as other social or political institutions ?
Are its transcendent phenomena to be observed and tabulated by ordi¬
nary scientific methods ? Are its inspired teachings to be brought to
the bar of common reason, its prophets to be judged by the rules of
common morality? Are these to lie and deceive, and to give way
to their passions without restraint ? Are the Divine appearances to be
scanned and weighed and measured and put into scales, like any other
productions of nature ? Are its mediums and their tricky spirits, the
fairies, the kobolds, and the genii, to be kept in order like common
varieties of the genus homo f
Such as these seem to be the questions which the Theosophical
Society in America and the National Association in England have it
before them, in their various directions, to solve. If organisation is to
mean nothing more than a mere blind banding together like herds of
cattle, its great aim and purpose will be entirely missed. The co¬
ordination and adaptation of parts to a whole; the utilisation of raw
material; a definite plan to a definite end; the right workers for the
right work; every man at his post, every one well employed and well
cared for; every portion of the subject carefully worked out; these are
among the higher uses of government, and only in proportion as an
organisation neglects or fulfils these higher uses, will be its stability, its
popularity, its duration, nay more, its very claim to existence. W.
THE POWER OF SPIRITS OVER COMMON MATTER.
Sir,—Your correspondent B. P. J. suggests that superior spirits
possess a mental power over matter, which finds mechanical expression
by means of spirits of a lower order.
Once, when conversing on this subject with a frequent reader at these
rooms, the idea was thrown out that the highest spirits of all have abso¬
lute power, direct and indirect, over both mind and matter; witness the
striking physical manifestations produced through the mediumship (may
it be called ?) of the Founder of Christianity. “ "What manner of man
is this, that even the winds and the sea obey Him ?”
May not our spiritual influence or psychic force have a direct action
upon a similar force residing, though hidden, in all material things, and
by means of which, without the intervention of spirits, many of the
physical phenomena are produced?. Professor Perty calls it the “ magic
force in man.” Or is it more reasonable to suppose that Christ was con¬
tinually surrounded by spirits of various grades, ready to do His
bidding, and that when he walked upon the water, He did so, not by
virtue of any power within Himself, but by means of extraneous sup¬
port from physical spirits ? * E. Kislingbuby.
38, Great Eussell-street, London, W.C.
MR. BLACKBURN’S FREE SEANCES.
Sir,—The seance on Friday last with Mr. W. Eglinton, at 38, Great
Russell-street, arranged by Mr. Blackburn, under the auspices of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, was attended by Mr. J.
Y. Yernon and Mrs. Vernon, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, M. Gustave de Veh,
Hev. W. Miall and Mr. E. Miall, and the Rev. W. Newbould.
Dr. Keningale Cook and myself were also present as representatives
of the Seance Committee.
Mr. Eglinton reclined on a mattress placed on the floor of the cabinet,
and in that position he was bound with tape and cord, so as to satisfy
all present that, though his position was easy and comfortable to
himself, he was quite unable to move, without the fact being readily
detected on subsequent examination. A small hand-bell and a little
musical instrument, called “ The Oxford Chimes,’’ were then placed at
his feet in the cabinet; the doors of the cabinet were closed and locked,
and the gas was lowered, but throughout the sitting there was a better
light than is usual at cabinet seances, and quite sufficient to allow every
manifestation to be clearly distinguishable. The doors had been
scarcely closed before the Oxford Chimes began to be played, and the
little hand-bell was thrown from the cabinet window; and on the bell
being returned by one of the sitters, the hand which received it at the
window was plainly discernible. Every member of the company was
then allowed, in turn, to go up to the cabinet and take the materialised
hand of Joey, the controlling spirit, who meanwhile chatted freely with
the circle. The hand was warm and solid. Paper and pencil were
also presented to Joey, who wrote a message and threw it out of the
window. A happy thought then occurred to Dr. Cook, who asked the
spirit, as he had been so successful in showing a hand, whether he
could not also show a foot. Joey replied that he thought he could, and
presently a well-formed naked foot appeared at the window, with the
sole towards the circle. Mrs. Fitz-Gerald and Mr. Newbould were
allowed to approach, and to closely inspect and handle it. Their united
testimony, on this minute examination, was that it was the right foot,
obviously of a man; that it was colder than the hand which had been
felt just before; and that it was in every respect well and fully formed.
The doors of the cabinet were then immediately opened, and Mr.
Eglinton was found lying precisely as he had been left—securely bound,
with every knot undisturbed, and, I need hardly add, still having his
boots and stockings on.
After a short interval the doors of the cabinet were again closed, and
March 24, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
the sitting was resumed. A few minutes elapsed, during which Joey
was notably silent, and then one of the doors was opened a little way
from within, and a small female figure, clad in white, was visible to
some of the circle, while others, from the position in which they sat,
were not so fortunate as to see it, the cabinet door not having been
opened far enough. The sitting was continued for perhaps another
quarter of an hour, when Joey announced that all had been done that
could be accomplished on that occasion; that very good progress was
being made; and that very shortly the most satisfactory results might
be expected.
I will only add my belief that all present had the most implicit confi¬
dence in the perfect genuineness of the manifestations.
E. Dawson Rogers,
Chairman of Seance Committee.
THE RELATIVE TRUSTWORTHINESS OF VARIOUS PHASES OF MEDIUMSHIP.
“A Student” is reasonably perplexed by a contrast between the
opinions of M. Aksakof and those put forward by yourself. M. Aksakof
has devoted himself, amid very unfavourable circumstances, to the
chivalrous endeavour on which he has spent most of his time—that,
namely, of collecting such evidence as will be most likely to carry con¬
viction to the materialistic minds that he wishes to convert to Spirit¬
ualism. He finds that to the materialist, materialistic evidence best
comes home, and this leads him to study and adopt it. He can hardly
expect his pupils to devote their attention to the philosophy of the
subject as yet; it is sufficient for his purpose that they are convinced of
the action of a force unknown to science, and governed by an intelli¬
gence outside of man. He is not particular as to the exact nature of
the intelligence, provided it is sufficiently powerful to place itself en
evidence. And so he naturally and rightly adheres to the physical
manifestations of Spiritualism.
But when he asserts that “ writing mediums, as is well known, pass
so easily under the psychological influence of preconceived ideas " .
as to throw doubt on the information given through them, he is not
precise. Before such a statement can be accepted we must know the
conditions under which the medium obtains his communications, and „
the character of the communicating spirit. Many things go to make up
the character of a message, and, so far as my own experience goes,
where proper care as to these conditions is taken, the “influence of
preconceived ideas” is practically nil.
No doubt a highly-developed sensitive sitting in the presence of a
powerful dogmatic or positive person would be influenced, and (presum¬
ably, though not invariably) would reproduce to some extent the peculiar
mental attitude or tone of the sitter. Well, the remedy is plain. Let
the sensitive sit alone, or with such only as assist without colouring the
communications.
Precisely the same result is got in circle. The powerful positive will
controls the sensitive, paralyses physical phenomena, and imprints itself
on all that occurs. Very well, again—the remedy is simple. Get rid of
the dogmatic positive will, or counterbalance it with another that does
not work in exactly the same direction.
M. Aksakof is quite wrong in his estimate of what (in spite of his
statement) I must be allowed to call the higher form of mediumship.
Properly guarded, it is immeasurably more trustworthy and more
elevating in its effects than the mere evolution of phenomena, and I
believe that a fair attention to simple conditions will secure it from the
dangers to which the other is subject.
I would not be understood to disparage physical mediumship unduly.
It has its work to do, and, so long as men remain what they are, it
always will have its sphere. But no deep student of the subject can
fail (I think) to agree with you in what you have written as to its
dangers, both to the sensitive and to the sitters. I do not say that those
dangers might not be materially lessened by attention to conditions, but
I should still regard them, under the best conditions, as grave and even
serious. So long as the inquiries of investigators are conducted on the
present plan of public circles, which are necessarily unguarded by any
proper care, I see no hope of this. And for myself, as one who under
the best conditions to the most scrupulously guarded has seen the fairest
side of the physical phenomena, and who yet has a very real belief in
the necessity for prudence and care in evoking them, I hold that you
never did more righteous work than in lifting a danger signal here—not
necessarily to warn off, but to enforce care on the part of those who
venture on the quicksand. If M. Aksakof had had as much experience
as yourself he would, I have no doubt, agree with you. Writing mediums
are not more easily psychologised than others, and I at least have heard
assertions favourable to reincarnation under the most purely physical
conditions, even from the mouth of a materialised bodily form. I have
had testimony to the same belief given by raps on the table, and also by
the direct voice. And none of these evidences made a particle of
impression on me, for all yielded at once to the simplest cross-questioning.
Kardec has far more to say for himself. M.A., Oxon.
March 19.
SPIRITUALISM FROM A CHURCH OF ENGLAND POINT OF VIEW.,
Sir,—After a careful inquiry into the subject, I consider that the facts
of Spiritualism are in perfect harmony with the teaching of the Estab¬
lished Church. If you think that the reasons on which I found my
opinion may interest your readers, they are at your service.
Our religion tells us that we come into the presence and communion
of good angels and spirits (See Heb. xii. 22, and i. 14; also Psalms
xxxiv. 7 ; and St. John xiv. 23). St. Paul also points out to us different
kinds of evil spiritual powers whom we are to strive against (Eph. ii. 6,
and vi. 12 and 18; and in 2 Thess. ii). Spiritualism likewise testifies
to the presence of good spirits who heal diseases, and in other ways
benefit the persons whom they visit; as also to the attacks oi evil ones
who perpetrate mischief.
In the services of the church, the Collect for St. Michael and All
Angels teaches us to pray for spiritual assistance in these words:
“ Mercifully grant that as Thy holy angels always do Thee service in
heaven, so by Thy appointment they may succour and defend us on
earth.” The church catechism also teaches us to pray to God to defend
us in all dangers, ghostly and bodily, and from our ghostly enemy. But,
in point of fact, all the prayers and collects of the church would be
useless and absurd, if we did not believe in spirits and their power to
give us spiritual aid. There are, no doubt, different opinions as to the
meaning of the words, “ Communion of Saints; ” but it seems to me
unreasonable to interpret them to mean the partaking of the Lord’s
Supper—the bread and wine of the communion table, which, to a Pro¬
testant communicant, are merely bread and wine, and can do neither
bodily nor spiritual good.
The word “ saints ” in some passages of Scripture means good and
holy people living upon earth; but it appears to me more reasonable
here to interpret it as in the thirty-third chapter of Deuteronomy, and
the fourteenth verse of the Epistle of St. Jude, which speak of God as
accompanied by ten thousand of His saints, which must mean in these
passages, heavenly spirits or angels.
Noah Webster’s dictionary defines “ communion ” in one sense as
“ fellowship, intercourse between two people or more,” which appears to
be the meaning of the word in 2 Cor. vi. 14, and xiii. 14. In the 1
Cor. x., however, the word appears to refer to the Lord’s Supper, as in
ii. 20, and the subsequent verses. But it is difficult to conceive that
the words “ communion of saints,” as used in the creed, can be limited
in their meaning to a partaking of the Lord’s Supper, for the following
words, i‘the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection from the dead, and the
life everlasting,” refer to spiritual action upon us. The 17th Article of
the church indeed speaks of the action of “ the good spirit, Christ,
mortifying the works of the flesh and our earthly members, and drawing
up our minds to high and heavenly things.’’
The resurrection of the dead as described by St. Paul is undoubtedly
a spiritual operation, for he says, as the following quotation shows
(1 Cor. xv.): “ It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption; it
is sown in dishonour, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is
raised in power; it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual
body. There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body; and as
it is written, the first man Adam was made a living soul, the last
Adam was made a quickening spirit; howbeit that was not first which
is spiritual, but that which is natural, and afterwards that which is
spiritual; the first man is of the earth earthy, the second is the Lord
from heaven.”
The different operations above referred to are evidently the result
of spiritual action. Speaking of the ministers of Christ in the same
chapter in which the description of the resurrection of the dead occurs*
St. Paul says, “ I protest unto you I die daily.” He also says (2 Cor.
vi. 9), “As dying and behold we live, as chastened and not killed.”
And again, “ For I am now ready to be offered up, and the time of my
departure is at hand.” These texts all imply, and can only be under¬
stood as referring to operations performed by the world of spirits, and
are in harmony with the above quoted words of the 17th article, and
the above interpretation of the communion of saints.
Lastly, as a Spiritualist member of the Established Church, I am
justified in relying upon the acknowledged authority of the work of
Bishop Pearson on the Creed, who says (p. 594), “ Firstly, the saints of
God living in the Church of Christ- have communion with God the
Father; secondly, they are in communion with the Son of God; thirdly,
they have communion with the Holy Ghost; fourthly, they have com¬
munion with the holy angels; and lastly, that they are in communion
with all the saints departed from this life and admitted to the presence
of God.” Archbishop Parker, also, another eminent authority in the
national Church, refers to the communion of the Spirit in these words:
“ Search the Scriptures, only search in an humble spirit; ask in con¬
tinual prayer, and cry to the good Spirit of Christ, and Christ Himself
will open the sense of Scripture,” &c.
Spiritualism, therefore, and the Established Church, equally acknow¬
ledge the intercourse of the spiritual world with the world of the flesh;
and on this point they are in perfect accordance. The words Father,
Son, and Holy Spirit contained in the above quotations must, however,
I think, be understood in a general mystical sense (as in John xv. 23),
and not be confined to particular individual spiritual existences. The
Church speaks of the mystical body of Christ. T. E. P.
A NEW THEORY OF PERCEPTION.
Sir,—The question of a spiritual nature pervading all bodies, and at
once the source of their power and the means or medium of communi¬
cation, is a suggestion of the deepest interest, and more particularly in
respect to perception and thought. Will you, therefore, permit me to
quote the following passages from an article on The Philosophy of Per¬
ception, in the Contemporary Review of June, 1872, by a learned and
original writer, Roden Noel, who does not seem to have been acquainted
with Lord Bacon’s theory. He says, p. 90
“ Then again, I apprehend that when a blow on the eye makes you
see colours, there is no more distinct idea of any distant coloured object
than mere externality to oneself and other normal associations of the
sense of colour may account for. Something is coloured in that condi¬
tion, and we perceive it; though we do not suppose that it is perma¬
nently of that colour out of sensation, as we do in ordinary perception:
the colours come and go. May there not here be some ether in the
organism, corresponding to external light, aroused to make itself sensible
by means of the optic nerve ? ” But of course this is a mere approach
to the full conception of the idea.
Then again, in p. 95, he says“ The processes and conditions of
142
March 24, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
material nature impinging upon consciousness, find themselves repeated
there in the higher sphere of spirit; they become intelligible in the
light of our analogous and contemporaneous play of spiritual forces,
and we correctly apply to the spiritual process language that is pri¬
marily applicable to the material, while the true poet truthfully, not
capriciously, applies to material nature language that primarily applies
to humanity,” &c. Thus, then, the play of the spiritual forces without, that
is, from objects, producing an analogous and contemporaneous spiritual
play or interaction within, gives us perception, and is a reply to the
idealists, who deny that our perceptions can have any semblance to the
things we think are perceived; we perceive how the mind is a mirror,
and its impressions are as true as the physical impression is to the seal
that stamps it; and that after accounting for illusion, we have real
knowledge, but even the illusions are not defects of the instrument, as
commonly supposed, but the sources of knowledge, and absolutely
essential to existence. Fer instance, how could I write these lines if I
did not seem to perceive and actually know the distance and situation
of the paper, and feel the pen as though the feeling were actually in the
hand instead of in the head. I think, then, that in this spiritual theory
we have made a most important advance in the philosophy of percep¬
tion, and of the human mind, and which at once affords a reply both
to the idealistic sceptic and the metaphysician. The advance from
the theory of Bacon is in the knowledge of the external medium acting
on a similar—if not the same—corresponding nature within, our re¬
flections and ideas corresponding again to the perceptions, somewhat
as the uncoloured print to the picture.
Henry G-. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
spirit hands and lights through mrs. rate fox-jencken’s mediumship.
Sir,—I have read with great pleasure in a recent number of The
Spiritualist Prof. Butlerofs account of his reception at the hospitable
mansion of Mr. H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law, where, with Chancellor
Aksakof, he witnessed some of those phenomena peculiar to the medium-
ship of Mrs. Jencken. I wish here to add that some years since, when
this estimable lady favoured my family with a friendly visit, precisely
the same phenomena took place, and more. When Prof. Butlerof stood
apart with Mrs. Jencken, and was holding her hands, he felt another
hand upon his knee. In my parlour, under like conditions, I did not
feel the hand but saw it—my mother’s hand, I believe, illuminated; but
as it approached my face, the force actuating it appeared to be lost, and
the light vanished. Again, while four of us had our hands joined upon
the top of a table, a rather large illuminated hand, visible to all of us,
came and patted me with considerable force upon my breast, then went
and swept the strings of a guitar that was standing against the wall near
the medium. At another seance a musical box was brought by the in¬
visibles from a marble side table, and placed on the carpet near the
guitar, situated as above stated. The musical box was then wound up
by some unseen, unknown force, and, as a tune was played by it, some¬
thing, which we all believed was a spirit hand, accompanied it most de¬
licately and harmoniously on the guitar. Once, when Mrs. Kane (Mrs.
Jencken’s sister) was our guest, a bunch of flowers was brought from
my garden, by what purported to be my mother, and placed in my
hand, all the doors and windows being closed at the time. Under like
conditions, there was introduced also a small cane, with which we were
playfully rapped on the head. On another occasion a very heavy rose¬
wood sofa was trundled across the room, and a guitar, and a photograph
of a deceased relative, were brought to us from their respective places.
A very fair picture was also drawn (we hearing the pencil as it pro¬
ceeded) in the dark of my father-in-law in his naval uniform, while in¬
dependent writing of interesting communications was almost a universal
accompaniment of the other manifestations. In fact, for forty-two
evenings spirit hands and lights, the movement of objects, which, at the
time, no human being could have touched, written friendly epistles in
French and English, manipulations by invisible fingers, and music from
three different instruments, were the phenomena we enjoyed, and to
which we will testify under oath—manifestations which have ever made
us grateful to those God-sent, gentle, genial sisters, whom I have with
the most deferential consideration named above.
G. L. Ditson, M.D.
Albany, New York, U.S.A., March, 9th, 1876.
A TESTIMONIAL TO MRS. SCATTERGOOD.
Sir,—It is well known to many of your readers that Mrs. Scattergood
has been before the public as a trance speaker for several years, and,
especially in Yorkshire and East Lancashire, where she is best known,
is highly esteemed. In common with several others in the same locality,
her labours have been excessive, and productive of good results. In
consequence of dull trade and other causes, Mr. and Mrs. Scattergood
have resolved to remove to America.
Under these circumstances several friends, representing various towns
and districts, held a meeting at Halifax, on Tuesday, March 14th, and
resolved to adopt such measures as would enable the friends of Mrs.
Scattergood and other Spiritualists throughout the country, to make a
suitable presentation, in recognition of the services so freely rendered
by her to the cause of truth and progress.
In order that this presentation may take a popular form, and that all
who desire may contribute, the committee have resolved to form a shilling
testimonial fund, to be raised in the following manner, viz., addresses to
be given on certain Sundays at various meeting places, by mediums and
normal speakers ; a charge of one shilling to be made, admitting to both
services, the whole of the proceeds to go to the fund; and, further, that
contributions of a larger amount shall be received by the treasurer, and
acknowledged in our weekly periodicals.
We are happy to say that already several friends have cordially and
generously offered to give lectures free of charge, among whom are Mr.
J. J. Morse, of London; Miss Longbotham, Halifax; Mr. W. Johnson,
of Hyde; and Mr. John Priest, of Liverpool. The time and place where
those lectures will be delivered will be announced in next week’s Spirit¬
ualist. In the meantime contributions from a shilling upwards can be
sent to the undersigned, in stamps or P.O.O., and will be duly acknow¬
ledged.
Signed on behalf of the committee. John Lamont.
199, London-road, Liverpool.
[This arrived too late for publication last week.—Ed.]
I REMARKABLE TEST SEANCES IN NEWCASTLE.
■ Sir,—The diversified and independent accounts which have hitherto
appeared of seances with the Petty family, although extraordinary, have
always possessed the very suspicious feature of occurring only in the
same place, and that in the home of the medium. Such an objection
may appear hyper-critical to the initiated, but investigators cannot
surely be considered unreasonable if they insist on change of place and
other improved conditions as tests of the phenomena.
With some such feelings, and partly to save ourselves a very long
walk, we proposed to Mr. Petty to hire a room in the centre of the town,
where we might hold our weekly sittings, and, according to arrange¬
ment, our circle met at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, the 8th inst., in a private
room to which the Petty’s have no access whatever. The cabinet con¬
sists of curtains of green baize, suspended from a circular iron rod
attached to and in the centre of a blank wall, and in which was placed a
chair (as there is not room for any larger piece of furniture), an ac¬
cordion, and tambourine.
The mediums (Mrs. Petty and her two sons) sat on chairs placed for
them outside, but in front of and about two feet and half from the
cabinet, with the following ladies and gentlemen—Mr. Hunter, Mr. Lee,
Mr. Petty, Mrs. Hair, Mrs. Hunter, and Mr. Mould, forming in the
order mentioned an outer semicircle at a further distance of about two
feet, and in a light sufficiently good to allow us to see the mediums dis¬
tinctly. After sitting about ten minutes we heard movements of the
chair, which we had placed behind the curtains, and a little later the
accordion was played, very vigorously accompanied by the tambourine,
and subsequently the tambourine was handed out of the cabinet by
some invisible force within. These manifestations continued fully a
quarter of an hour, during which the movements of the mediums were
rigidly watched by each sitter, who is fully assured these occurrences
were not produced by either or all of the mediums combined, whatever
may be the operating cause.
After a recess of about ten minutes, it was arranged that Mrs. Petty,
and her younger son, should sit in the outer circle, while the elder son
should go into the cabinet for materialisation; previously to the medium
retiring into the cabinet he was taken into an adjoining room by Messrs.
Hunter and Mould, was entirely stripped of his clothes, which were mi¬
nutely examined, but beyond a white shirt which the medium was wearing,
we could find nothing whatever answering to the drapery commonly wit¬
nessed at materialisations. With a strong cord we then strapped the
I(i lad to the chair, and arranging the light, we awaited the issue of events,
nj We had not waited above a minute, when we heard movements of the
i}| cord, which was in another minute thrown out at us, and, in about
j(! fifteen minutes later, a columnar mass of drapery, about four feet high,
nj appeared at one of the apertures of the curtain. At our request the
j j medium, apparently entranced, subsequently appeared at one side of
j (j the cabinet, and at the same time the columnar mass of drapery, now
nj somewhat diminished in height, appeared at the opposite side, and, in
j)j response to our expressed wish, changed positions, so that, while the
j (j medium was shaking hands with Mr. Hunter, the draped column was
j | j visible to the sitters at the other end of the circle.
j)j On Friday evening, 10th inst., another seance was held in the same
j(j room, in the presence of Messrs. Armstrong, Miller, Fenwick, Lamb,
jM sen., Lamb, jun., and Mould, on which occasion Miss Fairlamb was
j<j the medium. Cissey controlling, advised us to allow the medium to
jU sit in the cabinet, after we had thoroughly lashed her to the chair, and
j j we should have a good sitting. We agreed to the arrangement, except-
ji ing the condition of lashing the medium, which we determined to forego,
i ] as we preferred the rather to see the medium and form simultaneously.
j)j We waited a quarter of an hour, when the face of a man, apparently,
jtj judging from a profusion of dark hair that was plainly visible on the
j(j sides and under part of the face, presented itself five times at.the
j)j opening of the curtain. This was followed by a little figure, about
i(j three feet high, emerging from the cabinet, signalling to us by an
j; j inclination of the upper part of the figure that it was Cissey, and at
j)j our request she drew the curtains aside, exposing not only the medium to
j(j the view of the entire circle, but another figure or form, standing behind
j S j the chair on which Miss Fairlamb was sitting. The little figure re-entered
j)j the cabinet, promising to return and to reproduce the same phenomena.
\l\ After waiting about two minutes, the same appearances recurred, but on
j)j the breast of the medium we perceived a luminous appearance, oval in
j)j shape, extending from the lower part of the medium’s neck to her waist.
Kj On the little figure re-entering—as we feared finally for the night—
jj: the curtains had not been closed a minute, when they were abruptly
j)| drawn aside, exposing the medium to view again, but on this occasion
j\j completely and entirely robed in white drapery, the spirit controlling
j)j ordering us (through the medium, of course) to pull the curtains as
j?j widely apart as the rod on which they were suspended would allow;
jsj and while this was being done the body of the medium was inclined
j ji forwards, the controlling power talking to us all the while about a baby,
j (i as it called it, on the medium’s knees, which might, or might not, be ‘
jyj the little figure we had previously seen. The curtains were closed
i)j (certainly not by the medium), when presently we heard a lashing of
j(j cords, and we rightly conjectured the medium was being fastened to the
id chair. We listened to the operation in perfect stillness, but could hear
March 24, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
14$
nothing save the sounds occasioned by the cords, as they were being
drawn and then thrown, and, after waiting about two minutes, we
received instructions to bring the medium out, to examine the bonds in
which we found her. Og, raising the light we found the medium’s feet
were corded to the from legs of the arm-chair, her hands and wrists
resting on, were akodbund strongly secured to the arms of the chair;
the cord was then traced around the medium’s neck, attached to one of
the sides of the chair, and thrown around her waist, terminating in
very secure knots at the back. John Mould.
PUBLIUS SYRUS AGAIN.
Sir,—I have already sent you three of the moral maxims, thus far i
given to me in Latin, through a private lady medium, who knows
nothing of either Latin or English, by the spirit who declares himself |
to be Publius Syrus (now some nineteen centuries old in the spirit life).
In my last I submitted to scholars the case of argument which, I think,
goes at least very far towards proving this spirit to be really Publius
Syrus. If not really Publius Syrus, it is at least some spirit familiar
with his works, and familiar with Latin, who is ingeniously personating
him: which I don’t believe a bit. The genuineness of his title to that
name and character has been attested to me (in addition to the intrinsic
evidence involved in his three maxims in Latin, which I need not
repeat) by the old Homan physician Grlaucus (eighteen centuries old in
the spirit life), with whom I have been communicating almost daily now
for months; whose benignly beautiful countenance, finely materialised,
Bullet, myself, and another friend, have now looked upon scores of
times; who comes to us only to do good, to others as well as to myself,
mesmerising the sick, and both stimulating and helping Bullet to mes¬
merise them, that being his declared mission; who shows himself always
tenderly affectionate, kind, good, consolatory; who always responds
warmly, by approving caresses and even embraces, to good and devout
sentiments and aspirations, whether in words, or in silent prayers or
thoughts; who has frequently made on us all the sign of the Cross;
who has been spoken of by another good, though inferior and humble
spirit, with reverential awe, as a hign and holy spirit before whom he
“ bows his head,” with action suited to the word; and finally, who, in a
communication from my own mother (the authenticity of which was
absolutely self-proved by its contents under test conditions), was once
described as “ your old savant, your old friend and sympathiser.” After
the corroboration by this beneficent, reverend, and revered Glaucus, of
all the intrinsic Latin evidence going to prove the genuineness of the
soi-disant Publius Syrus, I repeat, that I don’t believe a bit that I
have had only a case of false personation by a lying spirit, acquainted
with the language and the writings of the real Publius Syrus.
But now for my fourth Latin maxim, or dictum, from Publius Syrus,
received to-day through the same writing lady medium. (And remem¬
ber that, at the outset, Publius announced that he was an “ invisible
friend,” who came for the purpose of giving me, from time to time,
moral maxims for my meditation and instruction.) He had first given
the communication in French, of which the following is a translation:—
“ Truth is a science very difficult to acquire, but he who has her in
his heart, who holds in horror falsehood, beholds her one day reveal
herself to him as a luminous meteor fit (propre) to enlighten all a life of
wisdom. It is the thanks of Providence, it is the reward of the just,
who sees at last revealed (apparaitre) before his eyes that sublime and
immortal figure—Truth.
“ In your age of scepticism and spiritual indolence, a temple should
be erected to truth. The name of the just man would there be inscribed
as an example given to the young generations, as a stimulant to their
zeal and to their virtues.”
I here remarked that he seemed to know that I had long been haunted
with the purpose of erecting such a grand unsectarian temple to the
Esoteric truth common to and underlying all the religions, and with the
hope, which was a sort of prophetic belief, that I should not die till it
had been accomplished. He proceeded;—
“ But before constructing materially this temple which would repre¬
sent to you all the figurative image of human fragility, ever seeking and
not willing to find [compare with this his last maxim beginning with
Lux, lux, and ending with torquent viairi], let each one first bring
morally his stone to the edifice, and when constant efforts shall have
rallied about this sublime idea, then truth will no longer be for man a
vain image, and her temple built up in every heart will find its erection
realised in the midst of you, who will be its founders.”
This closed the communication. But I begged him to give me
another maxim in Latin, saying that he had already given three, which
I had sent to The Spiritualist, but that I was anxious to fortify by more
and more the evidence of the genuineness of the source from which they
proceeded. He then continued through the alphabet and tilting of the
table : “ Veritas recta brevis Beds.’’ And no more. The lady asked
me for it in French. I was a little perplexed to translate satisfactorily
on the instant its extreme elliptical condensation, though the general
idea was clear enough. She then begged him for his version of it, and
he at once dictated, “ Truth is the shortest line by which to arrive at
God.” And I find it harder and harder to believe that this was a lying,
personating, impostor spirit.
A few words to Mr. St. George Stock, with thanks for his re¬
ference to Boswell’s Johnson, and for his kindness in quoting the text
and note to spare me the trouble of hunting them up. He infers that
“ dementat ” could not have been used by the real Publius Syrus, be¬
cause Boswell says that his friend, Mr. Richard How, told him that his
friend, the then late Rev. Mr. John Pitts, said thatdemento is of no
authority, either as a verb, active or neuter,” being found in no writer of
the so-called classical age. Mr. St. G. Stock finds in Lucretius demen-
tire (to be demens), and then in the Christian writer, Laxtantius, about
the beginning of the fourth century, dementabat in the same intransitive
sense. It is clear that this dementabat is an error of a vowel (and how
common that is in ancient manuscripts) for dementibat, as in Lucretius.
And what if demento is not found in any writer of “ the so-called classi¬
cal age ? ” Does that prove that it did not exist in popular usage ?
We know what fragments of certain “ classics ” have reached us from
that age; we do not know what other portions of the writings of even the
same authors have clean perished, or have not yet turned up. And how
many are known to have written of whom we have no relics. And how
many more, probably wrote, whose very names, as having written, have
not come down to us. Publius Syrus himself was a copious writer of
satirical plays, or “ mimes,” yet have we nothing of him but fragmen¬
tary single lines, embalmed in oral tradition, though we know that as
late as the time of St. Jerome, his “ sublime maxims ” were still read in
the public schools. There was no print in those days, the more’s the
pity. No doubt there were hundreds of words—proabbly thousands—
common enough on the tongues of the Romans of that time, both un¬
lettered and learned, which yet do not happen to appear in such frag¬
ments of its literature as time has not let die. Take, for instance, the
defective verbs; does Mr. St. G. Stock suppose that many other parts
of them (not to say the whole conjugation of them) did not exist because
i we happen only to find those bits of them which are all that our grammars
have therefore authority to give ? When analogy and correspondence
! to usage, as made evident from other words, suggest that a given word
may reasonably be presumed to have existed, are we to say it did not
because we do not happen to find it in the fragments of the literature of
the time which alone have survived to us ? Now, Mr. St. G. Stock
I knows well the usage of the intransitive verbs in ire formed from adjec¬
tives to denote the being in a certain condition, while the transitive in
are denoted tins putting another into that condition. Need I cite any other
than his own, or rather Boswell’s, not to say the common insanire, taken
in connection with sanare f If, therefore, dementire, from the adjective
demens, is found in Lucretius, would it not be even contrary to analogy
I and usage if dementare had not also existed ?
And when we find Publius Syrus (for the authenticity of whose com¬
munications so strong a case seems to me to be fairly made out in this
| and my preceding letters) claiming as his own this common maxim,
whose original authorship has been hitherto unknown, I respectfully
submit that it is no sound argument against the truth of the claim, and
against his veracity, to plead the objection, rather one of pedantic
Jj purism than really fair and reasonable, that the active verb demento is
i j not found in the surviving fragments of his age.
As for the line quoted by Boswell (at third or fourth hand), as from
■ “ a fragment of Euripides,” it is, of course, clear that the one or the
II other is a substantial translation from the other. But even if Publius
[ | Syrus had taken the idea from an anterior Greek original, to introduce it
I j to Rome and his friend Caesar in a Latin form, it would not cancel his
I i rightful claim to the authorship of the Latin, of which he claims to give
JI the correct text, and to give it as his own. While, on the other hand,
| it is difficult to see how an Euripedean iambic line could be made of it
i j without a recast, to which I do not see an easy way. If this fragment
j I rests on any tolerable MSS. authority, I should be rather disposed to
i attribute it to the fancy of some irresponsible copyist, monkish or other
i —and all the copyists were practically irresponsible in regard to the
i liberties of addition or gloss which were so easy to them when unchecked
(| by the publicity of print, whether prompted by controversial passion or
II interest, or by literary fancy. Do we not know what sad work they
! i allowed themselves to make with the text of the Bible itself ?
j | One observation more upon Mr. St, George Stock’s theory that the
) i Latin line in question may have been taken out of my unconscious
11 memory of Boswell, that is to say, out of some pigeon-hole of my brain,
; deep buried under the dust, thirty or forty years thick, of my forgetful-
) i ness. (On this theory the communicating spirit, picking not my pocket,
j i but my brain, must, of course, have been not a Syrian, but a worse
j I than Cretan liar, cumulated with the hypocrite which his subsequent
) i splendid maxims upon the divinity of truth would show him to be.)
If this line stood alone, there might be something to say for that
11 supposable theory—at least Dr. Carpenter might plead his
) | “ unconscious cerebration.” But what about the other line (Pecitnice
ji oportet, «&c.), about which my part was only to hunt up in Publius Syrus
j I the Latin form of what had been given in translation, with only Bullet
) i and the lady medium present, neither of whom knew anything about
jl Publius Syrus, his works, or his language ? What about the other one
|jj (I/MX, lux, &c.), entirely new to me, and in which I could never have
imagined that forcible and original turn of phrase, torquent viam ? And
i 1 now, again, what of the fourth one to-day given me, in a form of ellip-
| j j tical condensation, which I was perplexed to translate, and which I cer-
ij tainly could never have imagined? No, the four must stand together,
I j I and I deem it highly probable that Publius Syrus will go on hereafter
i j j giving me more and more, not less novel and unexpected to me than I
j{ solemnly declare each and all of these four to have been. And together
1)1 they entirely destroy the theory supposed by the kind and courteous
!)i scholar whose criticisms I have felt it a duty to answer—a duty to that
i j | truth to which Publius Syrus enjoins upon us all to erect a temple, first,
m morally in our own hearts, and then materially before the eyes and for
i | the benefit of all mankind. . J. L. O’Sullivan.
i)| Paris, March 10th, 1876.
“ HAFED,” PRINCE OF PERSIA.
Sir,—I am glad to see, in your last issue, that you disclaim the
slightest intention to throw a slur on Mr. Duguid in your leading
article of the 20th ult. You are surely wrong, however, in thinking
that the members of the circle were the only parties who felt offended.
I know to the contrary; but I have no wish to say more on the point.
I stated in my letter of last week that “ the spirit-artists have repeatedly
mentioned that many of the little direct card paintings and drawings,
which have been given away to visitors, were taken from impressions
on the brain of the medium and other persons present.” But we never
144 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 24. 1876.
dreamt that any of the direct illustrations for Hafed were got from
the same source. It is seven years since I looked at Cassell’s Bible.
Mr. Bowman has a copy of that Bible, and Mr. Duguid tells me he had,
about two or three years ago, an opportunity of looking at some of the
pictures contained in it; but on the production of the direct drawings,
not one of us had the faintest recollection of seeing them before, and we
therefore concluded that they were original. On inquiry, when the
similarity was established, we were informed by Jan Steen that the
drawings complained of were more or less made up by him from figures
taken from pictures on our brains; that in doing so he had no doubt
been thoughtless, unmindful of the trouble that might ensue, but dis¬
claimed all intention of wrong-doing; and he feared now (to use his
own expression) he had “made a mess of it.” I am not inclined to
blame the spirit-artist in this matter for anything more than what he
blames himself—thoughtlessness. For ten years he has given, in his
own humoursome way, many proofs of loving-kindness and truth, and it
would ill become me to set him down as “ a lying spirit” because he had
allowed his old habit while in the body to get the better of him—I mean
his habit of “ taking things easy,” regardless of the consequences. But
may it not be possible that when a spirit comes in contact with his
medium his old earth habits and feelings crop out in spite of him ? The
whole affair, I think, forms an excellent subject for study and reflection.
H. Nisbet.
Glasgow, 14th March, 1876.
SUSPICIOUS FEATURES OF GENUINE PHENOMENA.
Sir,—In a passage in Psychic Studies translated in The Spiritualist
last week, M. Butlerof adverts to the unpleasant impression made
upon his mind at his first siance with Mr. Williams, by the fact that
while being touched by a hand in the dark, he was also brushed by a
coat-sleeve. Others have had a similar experience at Mr. Williams’s
circles; and an investigator may be excused for having his suspicions
strongly excited by the circumstance. Nevertheless, it is not excep¬
tional. In an account of a test stance with Mrs. Holmes, given in the
appendix to People from the Other World, Col. Olcott mentions, that
while the medium was secured in a bag tied round the neck, the head
of Katie King was seen in the cabinet, appearing above a bag similarly
tied round the neck [of the spirit. In this case, the precautions taken
left no room for the obvious suggestion that it was the medium who was
seen. And in the case of Mr. Williams, M. Butlerof’s early suspicions
were quite dispelled by his subsequent experience of the integrity and
powers of the medium. It is unfortunate that genuine phenomena
should so often have the features, or be attended by the accidents, to
which an investigator might look to detect simulated ones. There is
danger of doing injustice to the medium; there is, also, great difficulty
in convicting an impostor. The other day two gentlemen had a seance
with Mr. Williams, and were thoroughly satisfied that all the phe¬
nomena were genuine. Yet the direct voice of John King, speaking
through the tube (the medium’s hands being all the while held by the
sitters) unmistakably resembled that of Williams. These facts should
be recorded, as well for their own sakes as in justice to honest mediums;
but it would be most unfortunate if every clumsy trickster should be
able to drive a roaring trade on the strength of them, and this can only
be prevented by strict test conditions, and a rational distrust of untried
pretensions. X.
HOW A SHIP WAS SAVED.
Sir,—I send an extract from a letter I received a few days back from
a near relation, an officer in the navy, which gives, I think, as good an
example of the powers of spirits, in some instances, to protect us, as can
be well imagined. That I never heard this somewhat ancient anecdote
before would seem strange, if I were not aware of the common hesita¬
tion felt in touching on spiritual subjects, even among the most intimate
friends, although they may be, as in this case, the most wonderful and
providential events of our lives. Here is the extract:—“Individu¬
ally I feel to have received so many special providential mercies in
my life, that nothing could induce me to doubt God’s ever overruling
power. I will mention one little anecdote. In crossing the Bay of
Biscay, coming home late in the year 1838,1 expected at the rate of
sailing—the wind was fresh, or rather strong—to be abreast of Ushant
at about half-past five in the morning, distant twenty miles. Towards
three o’clock in the morning my rest became very disturbed, and, as I
dozed off, words came to my ears as distinctly as they could be pro¬
nounced, ‘ Get up, get up.’ I took no notice of the first call, but the
same words came again, but louder, and something touched my shoulder
at the same time. I started up, and was quickly on deck. The vessel
was going fast through the water, and it was dark and cloudy. The man
was at the helm, and the mate of the watch near. No one had been
down to me. I cast my eyes about, and immediately perceived dis¬
coloured water. I ran forward, peering through the darkness, and there
saw breakers right a-head, and high perpendicular cliffs hanging over
us, and had just time to wear the vessel round and put her head off.
Such undoubtedly was a special providence. So soon as I believed the
ship to be safe, I knew there must be a cause for this great deviation
from the course. I knew I had given the right course, and she was
steering the same when I came on deck. I went direct to the binnacle,
and there found a paper of sail needles close to the compass, which a
stupid boy had put there the evening before after some men had been
repairing a sail; it had thrown the vessel four points off her course,
hence the results.”
Let me say a few words on a very different subject. I allude to the
very interesting account of the card-board figure made to move about by
will-power, as detailed in your number of March 3rd. M. Kardec tells
us that this could be done, although he does not say that he ever
saw or heard of its being done. He says in Part II., chap. v. of his
Pooh for Mediums;—■“ Now if instead of a table we cut out a wooden
(figure, and act on it as on a table, we shall have a statue which will
move, will strike, and will answer by movements and by blows ; in a
word, we shall have a statue momentarily animated by an artificial life.
| We speak of talking tables, we might likewise speak of talking statues.”
Scrutator.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL
GREGORY’S.
DR. KENEALY AT A SEANCE.
| Last Tuesday night a seance was held at the house of Mrs. Mak-
j dougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, at which
Mr. Eglinton was the medium. The guests present were Lord and
| Lady Avenmore; M. De Yeh, of Paris; Dr. Kenealy, M.P.; Mr.
Bennett; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.; Mrs. Wilks; Miss Fitz¬
Gerald ; and Mr. W. H. Harrison. At first there was a dark seance, at
| which musical instruments were raised, and moved, and played, while
| all present, the medium included, had their hands joined. Afterwards
there was a materialisation seance, somewhat stronger than the one or
two previous ones held with Mr. Eglinton at Mrs. Gregory’s. The light
| from a screened candle was such that features could be recognised at a
distance of two feet, but not of three feet; hence, except by those close
| to the cabinet, the outlines of the forms only were seen. The first form,
I robed in white, a lady who was near it said she recognised as her hus¬
band. Afterwards there was a short figure, which did not move, and
i might have been a child standing, or an adult kneeling. Then the
medium was seen in evening dress, with a motionless column of white
drapery alongside, said to robe a spirit, but no face was seen, per¬
haps from insufficient light. In short, the manifestations exhibited
development since the preceding trial, and show symptoms that they
may grow powerful enough in a short time to give evidence of their
spiritual origin to inquirers. To Spiritualists there is no question
about Mr. Eglinton’s excellent powers as a medium, and the question
at all materialisation seances, with all mediums, now is, to what extent
the spirits exhibit the entranced medium, and to what extent they
produce a genuine materialisation; for the evidence collected, both in
England and America, proves absolutely that they have the power to
do both.
The hon. secretary of the Dalston Association has requested us to an¬
nounce that a meeting for “ Narration of Experiences of the Members
and other Investigators,” is to be held next Thursday evening, the 30th
instant, at the Association’s rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
London, E. Non-members will be admitted on application.
Concert at Cavendish Rooms in aid of Dr. Sexton’s Organ Fund.
—The third quarterly concert and elocutionary entertainment, in aid of
the organ fund connected with Dr. Sexton’s Sunday services, will take
place on Wednesday evening next, at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-
street, Regent-street. The list of ladies and gentlemen promising to
assist, which is too long to insert here, includes the names of several
well-known professional artistes. The doors open at 7.30; concert to
commence at 8 o’clock.
Return of Mr. Morse to London.—Mr. J. J. Morse, the well-known
trance speaker, has just concluded a very successful tour in the provinces
and Scotland. On Sunday he delivered two trance addresses in the
Athenaeum Rooms, Birmingham. The meetings were well attended,
considering the extremely boisterous weather, and they proved quite
successful. On Tuesday and Wednesday Mr. Morse delivered addresses
in the Court-rooms, Belper. On Sunday next, and the following Sunday,
he will address meetings at Doughty-hall, Bedford-row, W.C., at 7 p.m.
Mr. Morse will remain in town until April 12th. Those desirous of
securing his services are desired to address him at Warwick-cottage,
Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Spiritualism in Blackfriars.—On Sunday evening last Mrs. Baker-
Howarth gave a trance address at the rooms of the South London
Association, 71, Stamford-street. The subject chosen by the control
was “The Development of Mediums,” and was handled in a manner
which showed the practical acquaintance of the speaker with the
different phases of mediumship. Thus, sitting alone was recommended
for clairvoyance and clairaudience, as allowing the medium to cultivate
the interior life, and be less affected by material surroundings. Prac¬
tice of the gift was recommended for healing mediumship, and sitting in
circle with congenial persons for trance and other controls. Afterwards,
Mr. Lawrence was controlled by a spirit who wished to be known by
the name of “ Constant,” and who spoke of his work on earth in the Middle
Ages. On Sunday next, March 26, Mr. Chandler will deliver a trance
address. Doors open at half-past six; commence at seven.—J. Burton,
Hon. Sec.
Dr. Sexton at Finchley.—On Monday evening last Dr. Sexton
gave an interesting and useful lecture at the Assembly Rooms, Church-
end, Finchley, to an audience of about 200 persons. Mr. E. Dawson
Rogers occupied the chair. Dr. Sexton explained the nature of some
of the most well-known forms of mediumship, and showed that while
the so-called scientific explanations of the phenomena were sufficient
to account for their occurrence, the spiritual theory was the only one
which fully covered the facts. At the close of his discourse, which was
listened to with marked interest and frequently applauded, several
intelligent questions were put, and were answered to the evident satis¬
faction of the audience, who received with evident gratification the
announcement that Dr. Sexton would be invited to pay Finchley another
visit very shortly.
March 24, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SAXE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
88, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Wobnm-street).
AXX LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ‘.and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining tire author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. fid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, ■ by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
BLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Blimey, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediumsalso about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic) Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee. D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or honing that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 5s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Superaaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri-
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN
KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens * these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote'during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Co.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. picott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid. *
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid. .
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid. _
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Itev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V- Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 0s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald." (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeeptie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher.. ’ „ II. „ . .
The Seer. „ III.
The Reformer. „ IV. • ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . .
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Peo
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . ,
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 fi
7 6
6 0
7 6
7 «
5 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS'
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize oflered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Aits
and Sciences, (Pub. at 7s, fid.) 4s.,
». d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by Thb Spiritualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms' (Noyes) . , . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated ft-om
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transiated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind,'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by^James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
iilanation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
)reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anassthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer,M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . * 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . .10
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , . .10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Galas
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation ofl Spiritualism, by
Gentleman of Education and Religious Cuiture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. * By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 24, 1870.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President :
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council:
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner,. Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa, Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer:—Mr. Thomas Button.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar 'Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can lonly be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member.' The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
toispecial seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, orinarration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as. may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known, professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualistswill greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
AU communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles," and catalogue of books in
the; library, with any further infonnation, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public' audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office, 38, GreatRussell-street.
Life Membership .-—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernard-
villas, Upper Norwood.
EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a Consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, W.O. -
HE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
FR S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, 6jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ESMERISM, ELECTRO-BIOLOGY,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granyille-square, London, W.Q. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE:
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-flelds.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W.
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C, Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston, U.S.A.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regen t’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixou, EsqM M.D., 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O,
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Col. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lamont, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westboume-
park.
Subscriptions will be received and duly acknowledged by
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby) now an
Anyel in the tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
,, 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
, 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
, 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
10.—Spiritual Symbols.
, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, and not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister for over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrameled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
It contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.C.
THE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
OF THE H UMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenxum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read j
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
TPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
X PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements wifi be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales,
AH communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.O.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics o<
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Scieuce and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the ‘'Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause)-: Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness: the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Bariister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edm.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn: Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. iH. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris); Mis. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ^United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitediKi ngdom, 10s. lOd
To residents in the United States, '4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C.”
[December, 1875.)
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holhorn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-ahove-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
