A F^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREff Of THE fCIEjMCE >ND ETHICf OF fPIF^ITU^ALIfM.
No. 26.—Yol. I.
LONDON : SUNDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1871.
Published, on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence*
THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY ON “SPIRITUALISM.” >
I , Yesterday the long expected report of the Committee
of the Dialectical Society on Spiritualism was published
by Messrs. Longmans,' and it is a book •which will, live
in history. The Dialectical Society was1 founded early
in the year 1867, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, Bart., M.P., for “ the philosophical treatment
ofjajlj. questions, especially those which lie at the root of
the differences which divide mankind,” and, unlike the
other societies, it resolved not to exclude from consider¬
ation political or religious subjects, of .subjects opposed
to popular prqjudices. The founders of the Dialectical
Society' said in. their prospectus:—
“The London Dialectical Society will have effected much
good, if by its means persons are made to feelthat to express
a belief on a disputed question with regard to which they
refuse to examine the evidence, is an act altogether unworthy
of a rational being, and that the only method of arriving at
truth is by submitting one’s opinion to the test of unsparing
and adverse criticism. Freedom of speech and thought are
(not lesS'tharL persqnal freedom) the natural birthright of all
, mankind. To refrain from uttering opinions because they are
unpopular, betokens a certain amount of inofal cowardice,
engendered by long-continued persecution. To state fearlessly
the truth, or what we believe to be the truth, even though it
be held only by a few, is the act of all who consider the exer¬
cise of private judgment aright, and the extension of human
knowledge a duty. But society generally has not yet reached
such a stage of progress as to allow individuals to give expres¬
sion to their honest and deliberate convictions, without in¬
flicting upon; them penalties more or less severe. The effect,
of .this is to deter men from expressing'opinions which might
be corrected-if erroneous, or accepted, if true. In the London
Dialectical Society, however, not only will no person suffer
obloquy, on account of any opinion which he may entertain or
express, but he will be encouraged to lay before his fellow
members the fullest exposition of his views. . . . Let us be
mindful of the fact that throughout the whole history of the
world, the voice of authority has constantly opposed new
truths; and, with an earnest desire both to learn and teach,
let us zealously follow the practice of dialectics, unaffected by
the praises of some, undeterred by the denunciations of
others, but conscious of honesty and purity of motive, and
desirous for the wisdom and happiness of man.” ’
, On. the foregoing principles has the Dialectical Society
honestly investigated several unpopular subjects, and
discovered some remarkable truths, not all of which
have; been published. At last a very big unpopular
truth in the shape of Spiritualism came across their
path—a very leviathan in comparison with the sprats
which they had hitherto been netting—and they ap¬
pointed a Committee to investigate the subject. Spirit¬
ualism rdised the little society into public notice, because
it undertook a serious duty which other learned societies
have up to this, time shirked; : the newspapers, and
perhaps the Council of the Dialectical Society, were
jubilant over the exposure which was certain to result.
The Committee, composed of legal, medical, and profes¬
sional men, strongly prejudiced at the outset, against
Spiritualism, investigated for two years, and then gave
in a report strongly in favour of Spiritualism. It had
been understood all along that this report was to be
publishedj and those who were invited to give evidence
before the ; Committee, were asked either to put it in
'.. writing or to revise the shorthand notes, in the former
ease imposing a heavy tax upon the time of professional
men, like Mr. Yarley, for instance, who have something
more to do than to write for idle purposes.
So the report, when it was presented, was in favour,
.of; Spiritualism ; at this, unexpected, result, the Dialect-
ical • Society took fright. The Council ran away, and
refused to publish it, leaving its Committee in the.lurch.
. Dn the 20th of July last, when the report was submitted
to' tlie Council, the Council gave a vote of thanks to the
Committee, and passed the following resolution:—
,. ? That the request of the Committee that the report be
printed under the authority of the Society, be not acceded’
to.”
. In consequence of the above decision,.the Committee
unanimously determined to publish the report on their
own responsibility, and it is now» accordingly, submitted,
to ’the public*
. THR MRJIBERS OP THE; DIALECTICAL COMMITTEE.
m The- Committee was appointed on- the ;26th-January,
. 1869, as follows: .. r? ; ||* fjf-ti |g •.
? ■■ • “ H. Gr. Atkinson, Esq., F.-GyS.; G. Wheatley Bennett,
• Hsq.;’ J. S.' Bergheim, EsqMU.E,; H- R. ;Fqx Boprne, Esq,
;Charles Bradlaugh, Esq. ; •G,’ Fenton Cameron, Esq., M.D.
John Chapman, EsqM D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.;
CharlesR. Drysdale, Esq., M.D.; D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.;
Mrs. D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; .Mrs. Ed¬
munds ; James Gannon, Esq. ; Grattan Geary, Esq. ; Robert
Hannah,.Esqi, F.G.S. ;; Jenner Gale Hillier, Esq.;. Mrs. J. G.
Hillier ; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq., M.R.C.S.;
Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq,; B. M. Moss,
Esq. ; Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq. ;'C.
Russell Roberts, Esq., Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.;
Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be
invited to co-operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr.
Fox Bourne declined to sit, and the following names were sub¬
sequently added to the Committee :—
“ George Gary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-
at-Law; William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq.,
Barrister-at-Law ; J. H. Levy, Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq.
Solicitor;. Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;, Josiah
Webber, Esq.” •
-THE OFFICIAL REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE,
The following is the official report of the Committee
of the Dialectical Society on Spiritualism
To the Council of the London Dialectical Society.
I Gentlemen,—The Committee appointed by you to inves¬
tigate the phenomena alleged to be Spiritual Manifestations,
report thereon as follows —
. “ Your Committee have held fifteen meetings, at which they
received evidence from thirty-three persons who described
phenomena, which, they stated, had occurred within their own
personal experience.
“ Your Committee have received written statements relating
to the phenomena from thirty-one persons.
“ Your committee invited the attendance, and requested the
co-operation and advice Of scientific men who had publicly
expressed opinions favourable or adverse to the genuineness
of the phenomena.
“Ypur Committee also specially invited the. attendance of
persons who had publicly ascribed the phenomena to imposture
or delusion.
“Your Committee, however, while successful in procuring
the evidence1 of; believers in the phenomena, and in their
supernatural origin, almost wholly failed to obtain evidence
from those who attributed them to fraud or delusion.
“ As it appeared to ybur Committee to be of the greatest
importance that they should investigate the phenomena in
question, by personal experiment and test, they resolved them¬
selves into Sub-committees as the best means of doing so.
“ Six Sub-committees were formed. All of these have sent
in reports, from which, it appears, that a large majority of the
members of your Committee have become actual witnesses to
several phases of the phenomena without the aid or presence
of any professional medium, although the greater part of them
commenced their investigations in an avowedly sceptical
spirit.
“These reports, hereto subjoined; substantially corroborate
each other, and would appear to establish the following pro¬
positions :—
£ICl. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently pro¬
ceeding from articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the
room—the vibrations accompanying which sounds are often
distinctly perceptible to the touch—occur, without being pro¬
duced. by muscular action or mechanical contrivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without
mechanical contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of
muscular force by those present, and frequently without con¬
tact or connection with any person; -
I “ 3., That these sounds and movements often occur at the
time and in the manner asked for by persons, present, and, by
means of a simple code of signals, answer questions and spell
out coherent communications.
“ 4. That the answers and communications thus obtained
are, for the most part, of a commonplace character; but Tacts
are sometimes, correctly given which are only known to one of
the persons present.
“•5. That the Qircumstances . under which the phenomena
take place are variable, the most prominent fact being that
the presence oficertain persons/seems necessary to,their occur¬
rence, and that of, others generally adverse ; but this difference
does not appear to "depend upon any belief or disbelief con-
cerning the phenomena.
6.' That,, nevertheless, the occurrence of the phenomena is
not insured by the presence or absence of such persons respec¬
tively. m '
;“;Tbe oral and written evidence received-by your Comniittee
not1 only testifies to the occurrence of phenomena of the same
nature as those witnessed by the Sub-comniiittees,'but to others ,
of a more varied and extraordinary character. •
- “ This_e.vidence may be briefly summarised as follows :r— '
. - .‘‘ l. Thirteen witnesses sfate th^atttbey have seen heavy
bodies—in some, instances' iiiferi-^-riS6', slowly in the Air and
remain there for some time' without visible or tangible- sup¬
ports .'l *. • ; f-; ‘i; Eft! f
“ 2. Fourteen witnesses testify to having seen hands or
figures, not appertaining to any,human being, -but. life-like in'
appearance and mobility, which they have sometimes touched
or,even grasped, and which they are therefore convinced were
not the-result Of iinposture or illusion.
Five witnesses state: that they have been touched by
some inyisible agency on various parts of the body, and often ,
where requested, when the hands of all present were, visible.!
“ 4. Thirteen witnesses deblare that they have heard musi- j
cal pieces well played upon instruments not manipulated ^by
any ascertainable agency, if
^*“•5. ,Five, witnesses y state , that they hate seen red-hot coals t
applied to the hands Or heads of several persons without pro¬
ducing pain or scorching ; and three witnesses state that they
have had the same test applied to themselves with the Tike
immunity.
“ 6. Eight witnesses state that they have received detailed
information through rappings, writings, or in other ways, the
accuracy of which was unknown at the time to themselves or
to any persons present, and which, on-subsequent inquiry, was
found to be correct.
“ 7. One witness declares that he has received a precise and
detailed statement which, nevertheless, proved to be entirely
erroneous.
“8. Three witnesses state that they have been present when
drawings, both in pencil and colours, were produced in so
short a time, and under such conditions, as to render human
agency impossible.
“9. Six witnesses declare that they have received informa-,
tion of future events, and that in some cases the hour and
minute have been accurately foretold days and weeks before!
“In addition to the above, evidence has been, given of
trance-speaking, of healing, of automatic writing, of the in¬
troduction of flowers and fruits into closed rooms, bf voices in
the air, of visions in crystals and glasses, and of the elongation
of the human body.
“ Many of the witnesses have given their views as tb the
sources of the phenomena.
“ Some attribute them to the agency of disembodied human
beings, some to Satanic influence, some to psychological
causes, and others to imposture or delusion. . ' tflgi
“ The literature of the subject has also received the atten¬
tion of your Committee, and a list of works is appended for fhe
assistance of those who may wish to pursue the subject fur¬
ther.
“In presenting their report, your Committee, taking into
consideration the high character and great intelligence^ of
many of the witnesses to the more extraordinary facts, The
extent to which their testimony is supported by the reports of
the Sub-cOmmittees, and the absence of any proof of imposture
or delusion as regards a large portion of the phenomena; and
further, having regard to the exceptional character of the
phenomena, the large number of persons in every grade of
society and over the whole' civilised world who are more or
less influenced by a belief in their supernatural origin, ahd to
the fact that no philosophical explanation of them has yet
been arrived at, deem it incumbent upon them to state their
conviction that the subject is worthy of more serious attention
and careful investigation than it has hitherto received.
“ Your Committee recommend that this report, and the re¬
port of the Sub-committees, together with the evidence and
correspondence appended be printed and published.”
THE REPORTS OF THE EXPERIMENTAL SUB-COMMITTEES,
The Committee collected information in two ways ;
firstly, by taking down the evidence of Spiritualists and
of persons opposed to Spiritualism; secondly, by ap¬
pointing sub-committees to observe the manifestations
for themselves. The latter class of evidence is the most
interesting, because it comes from men who were
strongly opposed to the whole subject, just as Mr.
Crookes was when one of the daily papers, some two
years ago, asked him to explode the imposture for it,
and publish the results—which he has done.
The reports of the result of patient practical investi¬
gation for two years, are very interesting to all Spirit¬
ualists ; we quote one of them as a sample, and those
who wish for further information as to the results of
observation by the sub-committees, are referred to the
exceedingly valuable book in which they are published.
The following is the report of one of the Committees^—
“Since their appointment on the- 16th of Feb. 1869, your
Committee have held forty meetings for the purpose of ex¬
periment and test.
f “ All of these meetings were held at the private residences
of members of the Committee purposely to preclude the possi¬
bility of pre-arranged mechanism or contrivance.
“ The furniture of the room was on every occasion its ac¬
customed furniture.
“ The tables were in all cases heavy dining tables, requiring
a strOng effort to move them. The smallest of them was 5ft.
9in. long by 4ft. wide. The largest was 9ft. Sin. lOng and 4|ft.
wide, and of proportionate weight.
The rooms, the tables,-and* other furniture were repeatedly
subjected to careful examination before, during; and1 after
' the experiments’, proving that no concealed machinery^ instru¬
ment, or pther contrivance'-existed by means of which the
sounds or movements could be caused.
The experiments were .conducted in the, light q£ gas above
the table, except oh the few occasions specially noted in the
• minutes. ’ •. ' •
r. “ On several occasions members of your Committee were
seated, under the table during the experiments."
“ Your Committee have-studiously avoided the employment
of professional or paid mediums. ’AH were members of the
Committee, persons of kdeirf ppsitiph, of unimpeachable integ¬
rity'with no'pecuniaTy bbjeef,, having nothing to gain by
deceptidn, and everything toTpse by detection of imposture.
“ Your 'Committee have ’held some meetings without the
presence of a:medium (it being understood that throughout
. this report tfep word ‘ medium! is used simply to designate an
mdiyiduaLwifhout whose presence the phenomena described
not;occur at (all, pr with greatly! diihihished force
and frequency), purposely tb try if they could produce, by any
vbiuhtary efforts, effects similar to those^ witnessed when a
medium was present. By no endeavours were they enabled
202
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1871.
to produce anything at all resembling that which they had
seen and heard in their ordinary experiments.
“ Every test that the combined intelligence of your Com¬
mittee could devise has been tried with patience and perse¬
verance. The experiments were conducted under a great
variety of conditions, and ingenuity has been exerted in
devising plans by which your Committee might verify their
observations and preclude the possibility of imposture, or of
delusion.
“ Your Committee have confined their report to facts
witnessed by them in their collective capacity, which facts
were 'palpable to the senses, and their reality capable of de¬
monstrative proof.
“ Of the members of your Sub-Committee about four-fifths
entered upon the investigation to which they were appointed,
wholly sceptical as to the reality of the alleged phenomena,
and firmly believing them to be the result either of imposture,
or of delusion, or of involuntary muscular action. It was only
irresistible evidence, under conditions that precluded the pos¬
sibility of either of these solutions, and after trial and test
many times repeated, that the most sceptical of them were
slowly and reluctantly convinced that the phenomena exhibited
in the course of their protracted inquiry were veritable
facts.
“ The result of their long-continued and carefully-conducted
experiments, with trial of every detective test they could
devise, has been to establish conclusively :—
“ First—That under ‘certain bodily or mental conditions of
one or more of the persons present, a force is exhibited suffi¬
cient to cause motion in heavy bodies, without the employment
of any muscular force, without contact, and without material
connection of any kind between such bodies and the body of
any person present.
“ Second—That this force can make distinctly audible
sounds apparently proceeding from solid bodies not in contact
with, nor having any visible or material connection with, the
body of any person present, and which sounds are proved to
proceed from them by the vibrations which are distinctly felt
when those bodies are touched.
. “ Third—That this force is frequently directed by some in¬
telligence.
“At thirty four out of the forty meetings of your Com¬
mittee some of these phenomena occurred.
“ A description of one experiment, and the manner of con¬
ducting it, will best show the care and caution with which
your Committee have pursued their investigations.
“ So long as there was contact, or even the possibility of
contact, by a finger, by the feet, or even by the clothes, of any
person in the room, with the substance moved or sounded,
there could be no perfect assurance that the motions and
sounds were not produced by the person so in contact with
the thing operated upon.
“ The following experiment was therefore tried :—
“ After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round
the dining table above described for forty minutes, and various
motions and sounds had occurred, the chairs were turned with
their backs to the table, at about nine inches from it. All pre¬
sent then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet were of course
turned away from the table, and by no possibility could be
placed under it Or touch the floor. The hands were extended
over the table at about four inches from the surface.
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table was
physically impossible.
“In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four
times ; at first about five inches to one side, then about twelve
inches to the opposite side, then about four inches, and then
about six inches.
“ The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs
and about a foot from the table. In this position, the table
again moved four times, over spaces varying from four to six
inches. Then all the chairs were removed twelve inches from
the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his hands
behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from
the table, and having the back of the chair between himself
and the table. In this position the table again moved four times,
in like manner as before. In the course of this conclusive ex¬
periment, and in less than half an hour, the table moved,
without contact or possibility of contact with any person pre¬
sent, twelve times, the movements being in different direc¬
tions, and some according to the request of different persons
present.
“ The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down,
and taken to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experi¬
ment was conducted throughout in the full light of gas above
the table.
“ Altogether, your committee have witnessed upwards of
fifty similar motions without contact on eight different
evenings, in the houses of different members of your Com¬
mittee, and with the application of the most careful tests their
collective intelligence could devise.
“ In all of these experiments upon motion without contact,
the utmost care was taken to preclude the possibility of me¬
chanical or other contrivance. But this was also negatived
by the fact that these movements were in various directions,
now to one side, then to the other ; now up the room, now
down the room—motions that would have required the co¬
operation of many hands or feet, which, from the great size
and weight of the table, could not have been so used without
the visible exercise of muscular force. Every hand and foot
was plainly to be seen, and could not have been moved with¬
out instant detection,
“ Nor was it a possible delusion. The motions were from
one place to another place in the room, and were witnessed
simultaneously by all present. It was a matter of measure¬
ment, and not of opinion or of fancy.
“ And it occurred so often, under so many and various con¬
ditions, with such safeguards against error or deception, and
with such invariable results, as to satisfy the members of your
Committee by whom the experiment was tried, wholly sceptical
as most of them were when they entered upon the investiga¬
tion, that there is a force capable of moving heavy bodies
without material contact, and which force is in some unknown
manner dependent upon the presence of human beings.
“ There appears to your Committee to be no ground for the
popular belief that the presence of sceptics interferes in any
manner with the production or action of the force.
“ Your committee has not, in its collective character, ob¬
tained any evidence as to the nature and source of this force,
but simply as to the fact of its existence or non-existence.
“ In conclusion, your Committee express their unanimous
opinion that the one important physical fact whose existence
has been proved to them, that motion may be produced in
solid bodies without material contact, by some hitherto u/nre-
cognised force operating within an undefined distance from the
huma,n organisation, and beyond the range of muscular action,
should be subjected to further scientific examination and
tests, with a view to ascertain its true sources, nature, and
power.
“ The notes of the experiments made at each meeting, and
their results, are appended to this report.”
THE PAPEE BT BE. EDMTJNDS.
Mr. James Edmunds, M.D., is one of the members of
the Committee who objects to its official report, so he
has written a long paper,: which is published along
with the report, setting forth his opinion that Spirit¬
ualism is a mixture of imposture and delusion.
A few preliminary remarks about Dr. Edmunds may
help to give clear ideas on the subject. He is a gentle¬
man who, whenever he has had the chance, has seized
opportunities to thrust himself into public notice by
connecting himself with subjects agitating the public
mind. Last August, when the hot weather caused the
Usual panic about the possible approach of Asiatic
cholera, great notoriety was to be won by the medical
practitioner who found the first cholera case in London,
and Dr. Edmunds proved to be the “ coming man.”
The Times of August 15th, contained the following
letter:—
To the Editor of the Times.
“ SlE,—At half-past two this morning I was called up to a
typical case of Asiatic cholera in Charlotte-street, Portland-
place. As your columns will be the best medium for warning
all the sanitary officials of the metropolis, I have posted down
to write these few lines in your office, and trust that they may
get in before you go to press. James Edmunds, M.D. -
“4, Fitzroy-square, W., August 15th, 3.30 a,m.”
Dr. Edmunds attracted the notice of Parliament by
means of this letter. On the evening of the 15th
August, Mr. Eorster told the House of Commons that
Dr. Buckland had been to see the patient, and there
was reason to suppose that it whs not a case of cholera.
Mr. Eorster thought that if Dr. Edmunds had waited a
little longer he would not have thought it necessary to
write a letter “ causing needless alarm.” The House
greeted the last sentiment with cries of “ Hear, hear.”
When the doings of the St. Pancras Guardians came
before the public a year or two ago, Dr. Edmunds took
up the cudgels on one side, and gained notoriety. When
School Boards were the order of the day, he came before
the public as a candidate, and—was rejected.
When the Dialectical Committee, in the face of great
opposition and unlimited newspaper abuse, resolved to
be honest, and tell the truth about spiritual phenomena,
a fine opportunity presented itself to Dr. Edmunds, and
he will gain immense popularity by taking the popular
side of an unpopular subject. Still, there were difficul¬
ties in his path. Eor instance, in May, 1868, he was
appointed by a public audience, as one of a Committee
of two to go on the platform, and test the truth of the
Davenport manifestations. The Davenports not only
accepted him on the platform, but had him tied up
in their cabinet with them, that he might witness
whether they did anything while the manifestations
were going on. The musical instruments flew about as
usual, coats were whisked on and off, one of them being
Dr. Edmunds’ coat, and when the manifestations were
over, Dr. Edmunds publicly told the listeners that what
had taken place was inexplicable.
Dr. Edmunds backs out of this dilemma in the report
before us by intimating that he afterwards changed his
mind about the Davenports.
Mrs. Dr. Edmunds is a lady in every sense of the
word, and a physical medium. Some of the manifesta¬
tions witnessed by the Dialectical Committee occurred
through the mediumship of Mrs. Edmunds, who many
times sat in circle with them. This extremely interest¬
ing fact Dr. Edmunds says nothing about in his essay;
it is not an easy one to face.
Three or four years ago Dr. Edmunds was at a seance
with Mrs. Guppy. He styles the manifestations, which
were really weak and poor on that evening, as 1‘ trum¬
pery tricks,” and says that a spirit drawing was found
m a portfolio of paper placed on the table before the
company, at the commencement of the seance, and so
folded that the drawing would not be likely to be
noticed. Mr. Guppy states that any unbiassed person
must see that it is “ perfectly evident that persons wish¬
ing to deceive, and having darkness and unlimited time
at their command, would never commit such a blunder
as to put a drawing, however folded, on the table, open
to the inspection of all the company.”
It is no easy thing to get a seance with Mrs. Guppy,
as so many wish to see her manifestations, and the
members of her circles are usually very high-class
people. Mr. Guppy says that the gentleman for whom
the seance had been arranged (the Hon Mr. , who
has considerable influence in Parliament), “permitted”
Dr. Edmunds to come with him to the house. Dr.
Edmunds, in his paper, denies this, and says that he
had a written invitation. We have since inquired into
the facts of Mrs. Guppy, who tells us that Mrs. Dr.
Edmunds called on her, and asked for an invitation,
which she refused, and added that the seance was a
private one for Mr. . Dr. Edmunds accordingly
wrote to this gentleman, and asked for an invitation.
He obtained it for himself, but brought Mrs. Edmunds
with him without any invitation at all.
Mr. Guppy says that the gentleman who permitted
the Doctor to accompany him to the seance distinctly
avers that no such event occurred as that narrated by
Dr. Edmunds about the finding of the drawing.
Dr. Edmunds says that Mrs. Mary Marshall the younger,
imposed on the Committee at a seance held before them
in a bright light with a great number of persons present,
including the reporter of the Daily Telegraph, the said
reporter being one who knew nothing about Spiritual¬
ism and an unbiassed witness. Dr. Edmunds says Mrs.
Marshall made raps with her feet. Eaps came from a
folding door in full view of those present, while nobody
was near it. The proceedings were truthfully reported
in full next day in The Daily Telegraph, without a word
about the detection of any imposture. Dr. Edmunds
prints that Mr. Coleman had previously informed the
Committee that if they had Mrs. Marshall, “ a table
would go up to the ceiling.” Here is what Mr. Coleman
says:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sib,—I have just heard that in the forthcoming report of
the Dialectical Society on Spiritualism, Dr. Edmunds, the
Chairman of the Committee of Investigation, has made the
following statement: “ Mr. Coleman assured us (the Com¬
mittee) that if we had Mrs. Marshall we should see a table go
bodily up to the ceiling.”
At a meeting of the Society Dr. Edmunds, during a discus¬
sion, made a similar statement when I happened, without his
knowing it, to be present. I at once told him it was an entire
misapprehension on his part. I could not, and never had
made such a proposition. Dr. Edmunds looked round for
support from some one of the many members of the Committee
who were present, and not finding any, he eagerly and con¬
fidently appealed to Mr. Bennett, the Secretary, who entered
the room at that moment. That gentleman replied, “ No, I
have no recollection of such an assurance being given.”
I added, “ I was glad to find Dr. Edmunds was not sup¬
ported in his erroneous impression, and as the statement was
absolutely unfounded, I hoped he would never repeat it.”
Under such circumstances, that he should now put the same
statement upon record in a formal way is, to say the least,
extremely discreditable to Dr. Edmunds. B. Coleman.
Upper Norwood, Oct. 11.
Of course everybody knows that nobody can tell
what will take place at a seance, and it is utterly im¬
possible that an experienced Spiritualist like Mr.
Coleman could have made the alleged promise.
Mr. Sergeant Cox contributes a memoir, in the course
of which he states that Dr. Edmunds was not an acting
member of the sub-committee for experimental investi¬
gation; he was never present at the entire of any of its
forty meetings, and he did not witness even one of the
crucial tests which the sub-committee applied to the
phenomena.
MR. GUPPY AND THE “DAILY TELEGRAPH.”
BIAMONBS VERSUS CROWN JEWELS COMMUTEB.
To the Editor of the Daily Telegraph.
2, Birchfleld-road, Birchflelds, Birmingham.
Sept. 23rd, 1871.
Sir,—I have received your editorial communication of the
19th inst., and observe that you have booked my bet, and
hold me to it, and threaten me with the fate of the gentleman
who wagered that the earth was flat, if I back out of it; or
avail myself of the subterfuge that the crown jewels cannot
be pledged in a wager.
Yery well; in all friendliness I say, “ Lay on Macduff." I
am willing to commute the value of the Crown Jewels at a
very moderate sum—say three thousand pounds ; a very trifle
to you—and I would make a further bet that my wife would
spend it all in a morning’s shopping, of course I mean in abso¬
lute necessaries for herself and little Tommy.
After taking advice, I beg to send you the draft of agree¬
ment—viz., “This indenture dated   witnesseth that
whereas Mr. Samuel Guppy, of Highbury-hill-park, London,
did, by publication in The Spiritualist of Sept. 15, and by
direct communication thereof to the Editor of the Daily
Telegraph, propose a certain bet, therein fully specified, a part
of which bet involved the pledging of the Crown Jewels,
which he is since informed cannot be pledged ; and whereas
he has consented and does hereby consent to commute the
value of the Crown Jewels for or in three thousand pounds
sterling; and whereas the Editor of the Daily Telegraph
accepts fully and entirely the conditions of the said bet, with
the said commutation—
“ Now this indenture witnesseth, that in order to give full
and entire effect to this wager {the results of which may
involve world-wide changes in science, religion, and politics),.
the following umpires are appointed with unlimited power,
and totally independent of the parties making the bet, to
carry out all its provisions, and hand over the stakes to the
winning party:—
“ His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury,
“ The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone,
“ Mr. John Bright.
“ And the Editor of the Daily Telegraph pledges himself to
deposit forthwith the said sum of three thousand pounds, in the,
names and to the credit of this said right honourable gentle¬
men, either in Messrs. Coutts’s or the Bank of England ; and
Mr. Samuel Guppy pledges himself to deposit his wife’s
diamonds in like manner.”
Now I think, my dear friend, that if you do not carry out
this bet, which the Institution of Civil Engineers would tell
you is a million to one against me, in fact an impossibility,
and which the Royal Society would deem so impossible an
event that they would not honour it by consideration, if is
youj and not I, that will personate the gentleman who betted
that the earth was flat.
Waiting the pleasure of a communication from you, I am,
dear sir, yours very sincerely, SAMUEL Guppy.
POSTSCRIPT.
2, Birehfleld-road, Birchflelds, Birmingham.
I am in clover with a friend here ; he begs me to bring you
down with me next time; you’ll see a-letter from him shortly.
Mine are not worth putting on the same file.. You should see
his studio—ultimate atoms bottled and labelled. , Oxy-hydro-
magnesia photographic apparatus, for magnifyingand printing
atoms. Branch of spirit post-office; invisible letters deliver
Oct. 15, 1871.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
203
and read themselves. Machine for weighing wishes; Mr.
Crookes has one also. There will be a dispute between these
two learned professors for precedence, therefore I now give
my evidence that my friend’s can only act downwards,
whereas, Mr. Crookes’s, by reversing the weight, acts either
way. Mr. Crookes in his very able pamphlet, quotes Mr.
Home’s wish at Slbs.'to 61bs. avoirdupoise, downwards, but if
Mr. Home had wished upward pressure—it would equally have
taken place; for instance, a leg of lamb of Mbs. weighed in
that scale would weigh either nothing or Y2lbs., just as Mr.
Home wished. The public are in a state of excitement waiting
Mr. Crookes’s further communications. Mr. Crookes says he
weighed several ladies’ wishes and found them very variable—
pity he did not state particulars; however, I can supply some.
My wife, at "Naples, in a delicate situation had lots of wishes,
corals, cameos, diamonds, and once a young fox, which
accounts for little Tommy being so sly. No, ma'am, she did
siot eat him, she put him in the orange garden and petted him.
The way I managed was this—without letting my wife have
the slightest idea that I was trying philosophical experiments
on her, whenever she began wishing I gave her a full purse ;
then, by noting down the deficiency in pounds (and fractions)
when she returned it to me I got. accurate observations, and
filled the purse (without her knowing it) ready for the next
wish.
I have compressed my letter, in order that its length
may not be an obstacle to your giving it to an expectant public.
This postscript you may find room for, or not, as you please.
You see, this is a world-wide event; it will go through Europe,
America, Australia, like an electric shock. The umpires are
well chosen—men of the first calibre—they will not refuse to
act. Mr. Gladstone was chairman of the Islington Working
Men’s Association; this is fairly a working man’s question.
The Archbishop cannot consistently refuse to take cognizance
■of events of to-day bearing so close an analogy to events which
are the subject of his daily discourses. Mr. Bright has 3 de¬
served well of his country;" he is now angling; he might
willingly exchange angling for fish for angling for informa¬
tion from the spirit world.—You will really have no trouble in
the matter except signing the cheque. My wife will be worst
off; she will have to do without her diamonds while they are
at the bankers.
I was frightened last night. Coming home late, in my
friend’s close carriage, from a visit some distance in the
country—the night just such as a highwayman would choose—
my friend began in a hollow sepulchral tone, not in his usual
cheery voice: “ The 1 Telegraph ’ will hold you to your bet—
you cannot get out of it.’’ Poor I, who only sought to shield
my ill-used wife, to get in the claws of that hydraheaded
monster the press. It took an honest glass of brandy and
water hot to restore my nerves; I never was so impressed
before but once, and that was when I was made a freemason.
I tell it you short. In an unguarded moment—the ladies will
understand me—I think I had taken too much champagne—
I consented to allow myself to be proposed. I got a paper that
I was accepted, and fixing the day.—I felt rather nervous, but
like this bet could not back out. The eventful day came. I
■saw the author of my embarrassment in the morning ; he was
cheerful. As he was going away I faulteringly said—“ Have
you any hints to give me as to this evening ?” “ No, no,” said
he, “ nothing particular, only, you had better put on clean
linen." What my feelings were as I was conducted up that
long passage, to rooms where neither screams nor groans
could be heard outside, I leave your sensitive readers to
imagine. I drop the curtain on that night.
By-the-bye, there is a great deal of nonsense in the Daily
News of the 15th Sept., signed “ Walter Thornbury;’’ and
among other platitudes he designates my wife as a “ fat lady
•denominated Guppy.” I hold the editor responsible ; he
ought not to take in such trash and put it in his shop
window; however, if he will write me a note and say he
Hushes for the article, I will forgive him.—I have a bet
as to whether an editor can blush. Besides, my wife is not
fat; it is all good solid flesh, with very little bone. I think I
ought to know. And if she were fat, I have not offered her for
sale, and therefore newspaper editors and correspondents
should keep their cattle-show language for suitable occasions.
Let me state the case again shortly to the Editor of the
Daily News and Mr. Thornbury, and if they don’t feel
ashamed of themselves, there is no shame in them. They say
(the one writes and the other prints) “ I had digested Mrs.
Guppy.” It seems to me that they have digested very little
common sense in the course of their bringing up. Nine
respectable persons, including a press reporter, meet at what
is called a Spiritual stance; they take as many precautions
as at a Freemason’s lodge ; a lady is brought without shoes or
bonnet, housekeeping book in one hand, with the word
onions ” half-written, and pen with ink wet in the other. I
cannot say she comes, for she was in a trance. They verify
the facts, send a deputation in two cabs to her house two or
three miles off, and find she has mysteriously disappeared.
The deputation is very cautious ; it hears all the young lady
who was sitting up for Mrs. Guppy had to say without giving
her the slightest cue. It finds that at about half-past nine cer¬
tain raps had taken place in presence of her, Mr. Guppy, and the
photographer, Mr. Hudson ; that these raps spelt out in the
letters of the alphabet, said that the spirits had carried her to
the seance in Lambs Conduit-street; that she was “ all well,”
and that there were nine persons at the stance—a fact that
this young lady could not possibly have known, unless at that
precise tme,.when the doors were closed and the stance being
held, some one had gone out and telegraphed said informa¬
tion. That, sad to say, Mr. Guppy so far relied on the spirit
message so received, that he ate a hearty supper and went to
bed (and so I should again if I was sleepy, without even in¬
suring in the Accidents Company, for I am satisfied that the
most powerful monarch, and the most savage tiger, are just as
a tame rabbit in presence of that power).
These nine persons lay this statement before the public,
appending their signatures and addresses.
Mrs. (hippy published no statement whatever. Now I ask,
in the name of common sense—common logic—and common
decorum, if there was anything in the matter giving just
cause for low buffoonery and impertinent remarks on the
part of the editors or correspondents of newspapers—whether
or no the nine persons who published the report and appended
their names, were not the proper subjects of the low wit of
the editors or correspondents, if they, the editors, thought
that wit so witless could add to the sale of their papers. Or
are the British public Borneo, who asks for poison ? and the
editors the poor apothecary who says, “ My poverty, but not
my will consents.”
My opinion of familiar spirits is that people should keep
them at home and let them be useful in the family—not
parade them in public. One Sunday morning my wife came
to me and said the baker’s boy did not come, and we had not
a bit of bread in the house. “ Send for some.” “ The shops
are all shut; I don’t know what to do.” In two seconds a loaf
of bread was placed on the table. “Was that you, Katie?”
“ Yes.” “ Did you pay for it ?” “ Yes.”
As for Moses, who you are always lugging in, Mrs. Grundy,
if we are to have Moses, let us have him altogether. If a man
was discontented with his wife, he could give her a writing of
divorce ; how would you like that, ma’am ? Under Moses a
man could have two or three wives without being hauled up
for bigamy or polygamy ; if one was in the sulks, he could let
her sulk it out—fine times those !
Moses never established any ambulances, or took care of
wounded enemies ; he killed them all, took all their gold and
silver, and gave it to the priests {no wonder the clergy stick
up for him), and he divided their wives and daughters, and
lands and cattle among his army, the generals, colonels, and
captains having, of course, the first pick, and the rank and
file taking the rest. No need of Army Keform, as none of his
officers ever wanted to sell out.
A friend called on me one day; he was very serious, and
said—“ With the opportunities you have of investigating and
proving the truth of Spiritualism, don’t you think that you
owe an imperative moral duty to the world, to make known
fully your experiences and to demonstrate the truths of
Spiritualism ?” “ Yes, my friend, yes ; I fully agree with you
in all you have said, but permit me to suggest to you that
duties are reciprocal. The Archbishop of Canterbury fulfils
very important duties, but the British public pay him £15,000
a-year for his services. Try me at even an ordinary bishop’s
emolument, and I will fulfill all the moral duties you have so
lucidly expatiated upon.”
Besides, I don’t want it to be public. Cats are to be taxed,
and Mr. Lowe, who levies so much money on spirits that are
familiar to us,‘will, by-and-by, tax familiar spirits. I pur¬
posely omitted mine in the census, although a being which
could.go and fetch a loaf from a baker’s shop would come
under some denomination, perhaps that of any other per¬
son.”
September 25th.—Don’t be afraid I shall back. As Fitz-
James said, “ This rock shall fly,1’ &c. I never backed but
once in my life—tell you how. I was just able to be trusted
with a gig on a plain turnpike road, when my father was
obliged to let me take his through London city. The gig was
quite new, dark green, patent springs and axles ; my father
had seen the patentee about them, and our black horse
“ General ” could carry sixteen stone safely across country. I
am intimate with horses ; I paid Karey ten guineas. Let me
see a man’s favourite cob, hack, and hunter, and I know the
man. I spent a winter in the Bohemian mountains. Any
horse they could not manage they brought to me. Once I
bought a mare of the Duke’s forester ; she had been two years
in the forest because nobody could manage her. She was dun,
wall-eyed, with three white legs. The cavalry riding master
said he would not trust one of his men on her. She looked
mischief. She had a peculiar habit of walking about on her
hind legs, and rubbing your legs against the wheels of any
waggon passing. Fine times I had on those mountains. A
covey of sledges would start for a ball fifteen miles off with
the bells jingling. The bright moon on the snow-laden firs
made it a fairy scene. Headlong down the’ mountain, now
across the frozen brook, and up the hill. Look back. Five
sledges have capsized in the brook; the spirits carried us
safely over. In many a morning drive I have capsized a
sledge load of Bohemian girls in the deep snow, but they only
shook their feathers and jumped in again. But the saying in
that country was—“ Who rides with Guppy should make his
will first." And then the ball; the Bohemian girls pouted if
I forgot to ask an acquaintance to waltz, and the ball was not
complete unless tall, slim Agnes, the banker’s daughter, with
black eyes and raven locks, and “the young man of the name
of Guppy ” were there. Happy days ; how stupid London
seems. I shall go back there some day, and leave the sul¬
phurous underground railroad, and the overworked ministers,
and the dilatory House of Commons to muddle along as well
as they can. When the Session is over they go speechifying,
and the burden of their song is—“ We have worked very hard,
but most of our time has been taken up in clearing away rub¬
bish.’’ And this to a nation that is liable any day to be
panicked out of its senses, cut in half, and starved to death.
I forgot my father’s horse and gig. He told me to be very
careful in driving through the streets. I got into a jam,
backed, and the pole of a gentleman’s carriage came crashing
through the back panel. My father was very angry. I
philosophised, “ Don’t back.” “ But if you can’t help it ?”
“ Then don’t put yourself in a position where you can’t help
it.” This advice I give to gentlemen thinking of proposing to
ladies, and if they follow it, there will not be so many actions
for breach of promise.
After the bet is decided, as there will be many people yet
unconvinced and ready to take odds, I shall be willing to bet
the same thing over again for trifles—say, a gross of cham¬
pagne, a case of Havanas, or a pony phaeton and pair for my
wife, and a Shetland for little Tommy.
I cannot, Mr. Editor, pass over in silence the very flattering
contingency in the last sentence of your paragraph—“ that
you will believe me a sensible man,” &c. It is something to
have even the contingent good opinion of. a man whose busi¬
ness is netting £60,000 a-year. What will be your opinion if
I show you how the £60,000 will become £100,000 ?• I see
myself opening a polite note from you begging my acceptance
of “ the enclosed cheque for £5,000.” I told you Deville said
(short), “ Good at tracing effects to causes.” Carrying that
out, I see clearly the future. I can read in advance your
paper—not all—but all the placards exhibited at all the offices
and railroad stations, with the heading, “Daily Telegraph;
ten pages; one penny." Here they are—make what use of
them you like ; you may send me a haunch of venison :—
“ Diamonds versus Crown Jewels commuted—Umpires accede
to the nomination—Directors of the Bank of England offer
the Vaults—Quotations of Bet from London, Paris, New York,
Vienna—Emperor of China and Mikado of Japan shake their
heads and wonder what their Sister is doing—King of Siam
orders Treble Guards round his White Elephant—Letters from
Special Correspondents—Mrs. Guppy Drove out in Highbury-
hill-park, attended by her Italian Nurse with Little Tommy.
Description of Italian nurse, age nineteen, brunette—can’t
speak a word of English—strong suspicions that she is an
accomplice — looks innocent — all the more dangerous —
chemical composition of woman C + H + Ph.—^Very combus¬
tible—Serious Accidents from getting too near them in a
Ballroom — Visit of the Editor to Highbury-hill-park —
Brilliant Escort of Subs and Special Correspondents—Legion
of Printer’s Devils in Attendance—Subs and Specials accom¬
modated with a case of Champagne and box of Havanas in
North Saloon. Katie takes Printer’s Devils into the seance
room and treats them to hot ginger-bread nuts and burning
snapdragon, which were brought in her usual way through
the walls, the door being locked.
Private conference between editor and Mr. Guppy *.—
The Havana of etiquette having been smoked, Mr. Guppy
remarked that although on the surface things looked smooth,
there were snags and sawyers in the track of the ship of state.
Editor—The Press is a great power, sir, and requires to be
wielded with judgment. It will warn the country in time
without creating unnecessary alarm.
Mr. Guppy—Your profits, sir, of £60,000 a-year prove that
you have your eyes wide open.
Editor—Lord Eldon, sir, asserted that a thing never took
too much time, provided it was well done at last.
Mr. Guppy—Lord Eldon was an antediluvian, and ought
to have been told “ your salary is quite safe, but you shall not
touch a shilling till every suit in Chancery is decided.” Time
is the succession of events, but events are compressible like
cotton, and you may get a great many events in a little time
by good management and strong pressure.
Editor—The Ministers have the welfare of the country at
heart.
Mb. Guppy—I know it; the Queen took up a gold pen, set
with brilliants, the last time Mr. Gladstone was announced,
expecting he had brought the Ballot Bill to be be signed.
Editor—The Lords had no time.
Mr. Guppy—Easily remedied. Pass a bill to the effect that
the Lord’s shall assent to all the bills sent up by the Commons
first and talk about them afterwards. See report of Yacht Club-
Yacht Britannia—Victoria figure head; helmsman, Gladstone;
boatswain, Bright (on sick list); charts by Cobden ; “ this fine
yacht requires readjustment of ballast, at present a slow sailer.”
Editor—Much time was lost in the Commons.
Mr. Guppy—I demur to the expression. How much cotton
would a ship carry if it was not compressed ?—there you have
the House of Commons. Organise a House of Commons Police,
to go on crying out, “ Move on, sir; move on; spin as long yams
as you like to your constituents, but speak here to the point,
and,1 if you have nothing to say to the point, say nothing at all."
Put a case of first quality Havanas on the table of the House
and let the members smoke. There is many a man who only
talks because he is in a fidget, and who would be quiet enough
if he had a cigar in his mouth. The Prussians compressed
events within the least possible time—that is the secret of
their success.
Editor—There is every prospect, almost certainty, of
a very long peace.
Mr. Guppy—Quite the contrary. We are at war with
Germany.
Editor—Have you private information ?
Mr. Guppy—Judge for yourself. The greatness of Eng¬
land, the power to maintain her population and send gold out
for a quarter of her food, depends upon iron, coal, and manu¬
factures. The great German nation, now united and all-
powerful, have coals as cheap; iron they undersell us in. Higher
intelligence, greater docility and better education in the work¬
ing classes than we have,half the taxes, and food cheaper than
with us: these advantages must tell in the long rum. Of course they
are our brothers, but if my brother sets up a shop next door to
mine, and by his advantages ruins me, it is materially the same
as if I were ruined in any other way.—As “|our Bill” says,—
“You take my life when you do take the means whereby I five.”
Fair play is all the Englishman can expect to have, and it is
good government only that can give him that, and if he is then
overweighted, he must trust to his stamina to pull him through.
Editor—We know our duty ; there is yet time.
Mr. Guppy :—And none too much—beware the Captain’s
fate. You are the suns whose potent rays should chase all
noxious vapours from the intellectual atmosphere and change
a pestilential swamp into an Eden. You have favoured me
with your advice, will you permit me to convey a hint through
your columns to the gentlemen engaged in editing the London
Press ?
Editor—What may it be ?
Mr. Guppy—Business is business ; demand must be met
with supply, even of low class articles. Man is not yet fully
developed. There are writers and readers of a very low type.
Do business for all, and with all, only—print all articles that
are not fit reading for a gentleman’s wife and daughters on a
separate sheet of paper of inferior quality. ■
The conference broke up, with expressions of cordiality on
both sides. The sub-editors, correspondents, and printers’
devils had made the best use of their time ; the former were
put to bed by their wives immediately on their return home,
the latter performed wheel movements all the way to the
printing-office, and went to sleep in the type boxes.
Day op trial comes—Great Excitement—“ Telegraph" not
to be had for love or money—all Procession of Mrs.
Guppy to the Bank—Eeception by the Directors—Her entrance
into the Bank Vaults—Sacks of Sovereigns—Piles of Ingots of
Gold—Bales of Bank Notes. She is shut in—Wild betting
rather in favour of the Diamonds—Light I I !—It is the
Elephant—He is munching some carrots—How did he get
there ?—Some suggest by a secret branch of the Underground
Railroad, privately made by the Directors to carry away
Bullion in case the Prussians should come—Railway officials
examined—Several Dogs and a few Cats passed on the line,
but no Elephant—Might have come by a Goods Train—
Couldn’t fly, having no wings—Objected that Mr. Home flew
■out of one window and in at another—How long did he take
coming ?—Referred to the Royal Society—Royal Society says
that unless the time of departure from the Zoological was
accurately noted by a chronometer they cannot take notice of
the event, and would not take notice of the sun unless he kept
Greenwich time—Keeper says he don’t know; threw him
a basket of carrots and bolted the door—How.long does it take
an Elephant to eat a mouthful of carrots ?—Objections : he
might have stopped at a Greengrocer’s on the road—Further
objections—“What is time?” “Time is a succession of
events ”—Objected, that a Toad in a Rock for 500 years has
no events—Toad an exception—If you drink six glasses of
Brandy-and-water while I am fast asleep you have six events
and I none—Some people say, “ I have plenty of time,” others
“I have no time at all.” Has one person more time than
another ?
Mrs. Guppy’s return to Highbury Hill Park—Elephant
cannot be got out—being hungry, eats Bank Notes.
Deputation of Bank Directors to Mrs. Guppy requesting her
to hold a seance at the Zoological Gardens, and have the
Elephant carried back the way he came—She graciously
accedes to their request.
Heavy Betting on that Event—Light! 1!—The Elephant is
brought back ; he has a package of Bank Notes in his Trunk
—Directors of Bank summons Elephant before the magis¬
trates, with Mrs. Guppy and Katie as accomplices—Eminent
Counsel employed on both sides—Damages laid at £200,000 ;
£50,000 of notes eaten, £150,000 carried away. Counsel for
Elephant admit that he ate, but deny that he carried away
the first £50,000, and ask leave to bring evidence. Leave
granted—Evidence brought in in a wheelbarrow—Question
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
OCT; 15,1871
v
raised—Is anything stolen which is not carried off the pre¬
mises ?—Referred to the Committee of the House of Commons
sitting on the Laws on Poaching connected with little boys
eating turnips—Trial of Mrs. Guppy and Katie as accom¬
plices—Both attend.—Mrs. Guppy charged with inducing
Katie, and Katie with bringing the Elephant, without which
the robbery could not have been accomplished.—Counsel
object that if bringing the Elephant made them accomplices,
all railroad companies wonld be liable for the acts of all the
thieves they carry. Magistrate remarks that every person
aiding or abetting a robbery is liable in the Eye of the Law
—Mr. Bull (present) remarks that the Eye of the Law is a very
curious one, for it can see a little boy eating a turnip in a field,
but it can’t see a rich man stealing the whole field—Case
remanded.—Parties allowed to give bail.—Zoological give
bail for the Elephant.—Mrs. Guppy and Katie refuse to give
bail.—Magistrate orders them to be locked up.—Counsel sug¬
gests that the only place to lock Mrs. Guppy up in is her
husband’s arms, as no other prison would hold her.—Magis¬
trate orders Police to take up Katie.—Police officers get their
ears boxed by unseen hands—Raps all over the court—Magis¬
trate’s Wig pulled off.—Shower of Lobsters, Eels, red Her¬
rings, and Periwinkles, mixed with the contents of ten feather
beds—The chairs and tables begin dancing a quadrille, and
the Court breaks up in confusion.
And now, Mr. Editor, take another cigar, fill your glass
again—mix it strong ; what I am going to say will bear it.
You, Daily lelegraph, say, “ It is generally.supposed that they
(Spiritualists) shrink from hard cold tests.” Well, I never
swear—sometimes I do as a lady told me she did, “ I think
swear.” I see it is not you that say so, but “ generally sup¬
posed.” Well, “ generally supposed ” is an anonymous sister
of Mrs. Grundy—a lady that lends that name to any lie or
libel which she has not the courage to let be brought home to
her own door. My wife says that betting her diamonds is
worse than a cold hard test. Messrs. Herne and Williams are
at this time shewing spiritual manifestations just as wonder¬
ful, except in size, as that of the elephant. I have it from
witnesses reliable as—(I was going to say something). It is
true that some of the manifestations are grotesque, but they
are spiritual' nevertheless.
All birds are not birds of paradise, and the student in
medicine has not a nice job in dissecting a man’s intestines,
but it must be done, if he is to be an able practitioner. The
naturalist has to collect scorpions and centipedes—God’s
works, though not very pretty animals. A drunken Irishman
beating his wife, and a cut-throat burglar, are not pretty speci¬
mens of God’s works, but they have to be studied by the Social
Science Association. In like manner must grotesque spiritual
manifestations be studied. And what do they (Messrs. Herne
and Williams) get by it ? Much abuse from men totally igno¬
rant of the subject and very little money. I think that is a
hard cold test enough. Scientific too, for it proves that the
men who parade scientific titles, sail under false colours.
Listen carefully. Some time ago I went to the first chemist
in England; I was very intimate with him—more than inti¬
mate ; for some time before, wishing to brush up my analyses
of minerals, I worked for a time at his college with blowpipe
and acids.
“Well, Mr. Guppy, how do you do? Glad to see you.”
After a few compliments, I said, “ Doctor, I am able, from cir¬
cumstances, to give you proof that the phenomena called
Spiritual are true, but the terms for giving them to you are
that you shall allow your name to go before the public.” Said
he, “ I should want overwhelming proofs.” “ Well,” said I,
“ what proofs do you want ? Do you think I could shake one
of the railroad bridges across the Thames ?” “ I—don’t—1-
know—but what—you—might,” said he, “if you went into
the centre and went on balancing your body.” “ Well, Doctor,
we won’t dispute about that, the proofs must be overwhelming
to you. Will you do so then ?”, “ H’-m, my friend, Professor
de Morgan was at it for five years, and made nothing of it.
What is the good of it ?” My barometer of reverence for the
doctor fell rapidly as I said, “ Good of it! What was the good
of steam, electricity, &c., a couple of hundred years ago ? Will
you accept my proposition ?” “ Nay, nay,” said he, with a
pleasant smile ; “ but if you see any more of it, I should like
to hear about it.”
It is the scientific men whose duty to the public for the
deference paid to them, and for fair emolument in salaries, is
to be in the van; yet who are in the rear.
Did not the Royal Society the other day shelve a proposi¬
tion of Mr. Crookes, their own brother, to begin their educa¬
tion and show them the A B C of it. Naughty hoys, is not
the Compulsory Education Act applicable to them ?
Have not the Dialectical been two years in the family way
with the subject and not delivered yet?
Has England no Peabody in this matter ? Must that impu¬
dent child on the other side of the Atlantic lead his poor old
blind grandmother Britannia ?
I think, Mr. Editor, that YOU are “the coming man.” Just
turn it over in your mind and give me your ideas on the sub¬
ject by your usual channel. What is your opinion of an idea
that has just entered my head? Consider mediums as race
horses. (That will take.) Establish prizes for different classes
of manifestations. Names to be entered and the business to
be conducted regularly by the Spiritual Club, so that the
betting might be as well conducted as at Tattersall’s. The
stakes must be worth while, to bring out first-rate abilities.
You don’t get Jenny Linds to sing for half-crowns—I should
say £1,000 to £5,000, or even £10,000. There are many gentle¬
men who have excellent mediums in their families, wives or
daughters ; a prize of £5,000 would bring them out. They
don’t like it even to be known now. They are afraid of Mrs.
Grundy and her canting sister, “ Generally supposed.” There
are different kinds of spiritual manifestations, just as one
person excels in singing, another in painting, another in music,
another in drawing, another in sentiments of love and pea.ce;
another would wrench all the door knockers off and break
windows and furniture, as well as any young nobleman ; and
all the work of spirits without mortal hands having anything
to do with it. Others fly or are carried through the air. I hear
Messrs. Herne and Williams have often no need of stairs, being
occasionally carried through the ceiling up into their bedroom
and back again.
What sum do you think your extensive influence could get up ?
Shall we ask Mr. Gladstone to propose in the Commons the
sum of       £80,000
The Lords and Bishops—the latter get some £200,000 a-year for in¬
culcating faith in things unseen. We ought to get half of that, for
we prove what they preach     50,000
Exeter Hall properly managed.....  5,000
Tattersall’s—say     10,000
The Stock Exchange (liberal fellows)  10,000
The British public, who so liberally opened their purses for the
French in the war    60,000
All the Societies put together      1,000
Total      £160,000
This sum, with interest, would allow of £30,000 a-year for
six years for prizes for the most distinguished mediums in
various branches, to exhibit phenomena of which the world at
large has not the remotest conception.
If that were done, competing mediums would be looked
up to with as much regard as the favourite for the St. Leger
is now, instead of being exposed to senseless satire. I know
that the Spiritual publications will abuse me for the proposal
and say, B What! take money ?”
Does your butcher or baker supply you for nothing ? Does
not your doctor send in his bill ? Will the clergyman preach
for nothing ? Can you go to the opera for nothing ? And you
will not get first-class mediums for nothing. Here and there,
in gentlemen’s families, you will meet the wife or daughter
who is a fair medium, just as they may play the piano, or sing
tolerably, but true mediumship requires not only the union of
the highest mental qualities of sense and goodness, but con¬
tinual exercise and care of health besides. The Americans
number eleven millions of Spiritualists ; they have lately had
a grand gathering ; they have spiritual lectures, and spiritual
schools. They are a more powerful nation than we are ; they
are unattackable, and we have many weak places. We cannot
put this thing in prison as the Pope did Galileo. On it is
coming, and if you cannot stop reform, the best way is to put
yourself at the head of it and guide it.
It is time to go to bed. I wish you a very good night, and
may your profits never be less. S. G.
STONE-THROWING BY SPIRITS.
BY BENJAMIN- COLEMAN.
In the whole range of Spiritual manifestations there is
nothing more curious ncr more difficult to reconcile and ex¬
plain than the act o£ stone-throwing. That such occurrences
have repeatedly ta ten place which could not be reasonably
attributed to human agency is beyond dispute.
But as I am not writing for the purpose of convincing the
“ clever fellows ” who know better, and who with a ready
pen fulfil their “calling” by trying to stay the advance of
truth, I will not stop to argue the question, but will express
my conviction, based upon personal experiences, and a large
mass of human testimony, that material substances are
wielded by immaterial agencies or spiritual forces, and that
therefore these mysterious acts of stone-throwing may be
fairly placed in the same category as the still more startling
proofs we have recently had of spirit-power, by which solid
matter is made to pass through solid matter in a twinkling,
with as much apparent ease as the plummet sounds the river’s
depths.
The cases of mysterious stone-throwing, of bell-ringing, and
other disturbances, are so numerous that a full record of
them would occupy volumes.*
I will not therefore attempt to write a history, but I will
confine my remarks to an extraordinary case of stone-throwing
which recently occurred at Peckham—a populous suburb of
London—which I have personally investigated.
It appears that about six o’clock in the evening of
Wednesday the 13th of September last, a stone weighing
10oz., which I have in my possession, was hurled with great
force against a pane of plate glass in the shop window of Mr.
Howe, a grocer, situated at the corner of two streets, East
Surrey-grove and a very narrow street running into Camden-
grove, at the other end of which, at the opposite corner of the
narrow street, is the “Lord Raglan” public-house, kept by
Mr. Freeman. The crash occasioned by this stone brought
out the neighbours who were joined by the policeman on duty,
and whilst they were discussing the matter another stone,
which Mrs. Howe said appeared to come from the blank wall
opposite in the narrow street, smashed a second pane, and
quickly following these came six more stones, each making a
hole in the thick glass, sent with a force which the strongest
man could hardly exercise in the limited space of this narrow
street, and coming from opposite angles of the blank walls,
without however injuring any person. Mr. Underwood, who
owns the property with Mr. Freeman, of the “ Lord Raglan ”
public-house, and several policemen, busied themselves to
trace the delinquents. All kinds of conjectures and very
contradictory statements were made by spectators, as to the
direction from whence the stones were hurled, in the midst of
which the scene of operations was changed to the other side of
Surrey -grove, where several panes were broken in the windows
of a private house, and then to the “Lord Raglan,” situated
as I have said at the other end and opposite corner of the
narrow street which connects Surrey-grove and Camden-grove.
Here a stone thrown with great force shivered a large pane of
plate-glass, and whilst the landlord, assisted by his friends,
was rushing about to find the thrower, yet another stone, to
his great dismay, smashed a large ornamental pane in the door¬
way. The police used every exertion, but in vain, to solve
the mystery, and the night passed without giving them the
least clue to it.
On the following morning, about 11 o’clock, and therefore
in broad daylight, the mystery was heightened by stones
flying about, and falling on the pavement in the very midst
of a posse of policemen, and one came directly against and
smashed another large pane of glass in the front window of
Mr. Freeman’s house, facing Camden-grove.
About the same time stones fell thickly about the shop of
Mr. Buckell, greengrocer, who protected himself by closing
the shutters, and again through the already broken windows of
Mr. Howe’s shop, where the disturbance commenced on the pre¬
vious evening, and Mr. Howe informed me that not less than
nineteen stones struck his shop windows during that and the
previous day. The windows, in fact, were completely riddled,;
but being insured in the Plate Glass Insurance Company, he
suffers no loss. The foregoing is a brief statement of the facts
corroborated by Inspector Gedge, who is in charge of the Metro¬
politan Police of that district, with whom I had a personal
interview two days after these strange occurrences. Mr.
Gedge had no explanation to offer ; the stones did not belong
to the neighbourhood; most of them were such as are found
by the sea-side, and weighed from 7 to 11 ozs. One stone he
said flew past his face whilst he was making inquiries on the
premises of Mr. Howe, and it was to him altogether an ex¬
tremely mysterious affair. But, of course, he could only at¬
tribute it to natural causes—the work of some malicious
persons. He smiled good-naturedly at my suggestion that it
might possibly be the work of spirits. Such an idea was
evidently new to him. He knew nothing of Spiritualism
or of mediums, nor of the numerous cases of mysterious
stone-throwing, and violent tossing about of articles of
furniture, which occurrences I told him had been wit-
* Some very remarkable instances have been collected by -William
Howitt, and published in The Spiritual Magazine, vol. vi., 1865. In Eobert
Dale Owen's Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World. In Caprons’ Facts
and Fanaticisms, and (Me Personal Experience, by the Eev. William Ker, of
Tipton in Staffordshire, page 168. Spiritual Magazine, 1865.
nessed many times and had been generally traced to the
presence of innocent people in whom resided an unconscious
power which we call mediumistic. But unwilling as the
Inspector was to accept such an explanation of the Peckham
disturbances, he nevertheless supported the Spiritual theory
by citing two cases which came under his own observation.
One was that of a lady residing in Peckham who had sent for
him some time ago to investigate the cause of her windows
being frequently broken when it was certain the stones could
not have been thrown from without. He came to the conclu¬
sion, after due enquiry, that the servant girl was the delinquent.
The stones were always thrown at the glass when she was
near. The lady protested against such a suspicion and re¬
luctantly consented to have a policeman on the watch. The
result was that the girl was detected, as the policeman averred,
and she was discharged, after which no further damage was
done, and this was to them the best evidence that their sus¬
picions were well founded. He admitted the lady was not
satisfied, as she declared that one stone came through the
glass when the girl was by her side with her back to
the window. But according to their limited knowledge and
reasoning it must be the girl—who else could it be? The
other case mentioned by the Inspector he candidly con¬
fessed was a mystery which had not been solved. His
brother, he said, kept a chemist’s shop and had in his employ¬
ment a very artful boy who caused a great deal of mischief.
Bottles were removed from their places and thrown down;
peas—not stones—rattled in a shower among the glasses, and
once whilst his brother and the boy were sitting in the ante¬
room at tea, a large piece of mortar, which did not come from
the ceiling or the walls of the room, was adroitly dropped into
the master’s cup. These disturbances continued for a long
period. They of course knew that the boy caused them. Who
else could it be ? But though he was closely watched they
never could detect him, and the alternative was to send him
away, after which nothing of the sort occurred. Now in these
two cases, brought out by a casual conversation with Inspector
Gedge, whose courtesy and intelligence I desire to acknow¬
ledge, we find illustrations of a power which the initiated
know is common to a vast number of individuals whom we
call “mediums,” and which peculiarity may be traced in
almost every case to have existed with such persons from
their earliest childhood.
For the manifestations which have arisen from the posses¬
sion of this strange and somewhat unenviable “gift,” children
have been severely punished by their parents, and more com¬
monly by their teachers, and even expelled from their schools,
branded as “incorrigible.” A notable instance of persecution
in modem times of this character, arising from the inexcusable
ignorance of a body of savans, is to be found in the case of
Dr. F. L. Willis, of Boston, now a recognised medium of remark¬
able power, and a very worthy man. He was expelled from
Harvard University, after solemn conclave had been held,
because certain marvellous manifestations occurred in his pre¬
sence, for which he could offer no other explanation than that
they were beyond his control, and, he believed, were of
spiritual origin ; perfectly honest and truthful statement, of
which, from the wide-spread evidence these “ wise men of the
west ’’ have since had, they must be now conscious. Yet they
have never had the manliness to condone their error, and to
make reparation to a gentleman whose health has been under¬
mined, and whose worldly prospects have been blighted by a
blind and stupid act of gross injustice.
Well may it be asked, Is this state of things to go on and
be repeated in England, the boasted land of enlightened civi¬
lisation? Yes; it is, if the press continue to close their
columns to the advocates of unpopular truths, and permit
such men as Mr. Walter Thornbury, of Dorking, to abuse his
privilege, and to mislead public opinion. This gentleman
wrote a letter to the Daily News, published by that Journal
September 15th, which shows him to be a clever satirist, but
not a philosopher, and therefore unfitted to be the guide and
counsellor of other men. In that letter Mr. Thornbury dis¬
credits the genuineness of manifestations witnessed by him at
a single public seance, he rushes at once into print to
denounce the whole thing as “an unsuccessful effort at vulgar
deception,” and concludes his letter by invoking the aid of
the police to punish the impostors. I have seen, during the
last seventeen years, many others commit themselves after
this fashion, who have lived to be ashamed of their folly.
But if Mr. Thombury ever succeeds in accomplishing his
desire, he will do more for the spread of Spiritualism than its-
ordinary advocates can accomplish, and I only hope in that
event the offenders may be brought before the tribunal of
justice over which Mr. Sergeant Cox presides. His judgment
would be worth having in such a case, as he is himself a recent
convert from the same condition of mind which wrongly
influences Mr. Walter Thornbury now.
In the cases of stone-throwing, of bell-ringing, and wilful
damage to furniture, of which I have said there are very many
instances, it startles and distresses us to think that this should
be the work of spirits, the spirits of departed human beings-
engaged in anything so apparently meaningless, undignified,
and malicious. I for one, however, am not disposed to con¬
demn what I|do not understand. We know there is a better,
a brighter side to Spiritualism. But the marvellous and sen¬
sational are in the ascendant just now, and doubtless for a-
wise purpose, the meaning of which may be made clear to us
hereafter. There is a powerful press arrayed against the
power of the “ invisibles,” and a Royal Society in England—
a body of the most learned men in the world, but as a body,
materialistic, hard-headed, and slow to receive evidence.
Their views on all matters of science very naturally to a great
extent govern public opinion. As a body (there are a few
exceptions), they look down upon Spiritualism, and affect to
treat it as a wild delusion, and its believers as fools and
fanatics. To present, therefore, a message of peace from a
gentle, loving spirit, or even grave and solid counsel, purport¬
ing to come from a denizen of the spirit world, would be to
evoke from the breasts of men who believe not in such
“ visionary maudlin,” pity or contempt. The spirits, knowing
this—the word has doubtless gone forth that the gentle and
pure, whose benignant ministrations have solaced millions of
tom hearts, and robbed death of its sting—shall stand aside
for a time, and let the warriors come on the scene, those who
are best fitted to cope with the hydra-headed monster of
unbelief. There are, as we have had ample evidences, as
many conditions of men in the spirit world as there are in
the natural; they are not all angels, nor all devils ; but the
worst, as the best, have under Supreme guidance,:I believe,
their mission. We have evidently some powerful spirits
actively at work amongst us now, taking their own way of
establishing in the obdurate minds of a sceptical multitude
the fact that there are in nature, wielded by intelligent though
invisible agents, forces not dreamt of in their material
philosophy.
Oct. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
205
In this view of the matter, let us not take alarm, as I find
some timid ones, who think these acts of violence must pro¬
ceed from diabolical spirits are disposed to do. Let us be
patient, and “judge them by their fruits.” “Out of evil
cometh good.” “ God chooseth the base things of this world
to confound the mighty,” etc., etc. We who are numbered by
tens of thousands, not so learned as the Fellows of the Royal
Society, but as honest and as capable of recognising a physical
fact made patent to our senses as the best of them, hnow that
phenomena of an extraordinary character are transpiring daily
in our midst. True they have hitherto been seen only in cer¬
tain places, and under special conditions, and by a compara¬
tively limited number of persons. But what of that ? Look
at the character of the Witnesses. Can such a mass of human
testimony as is brought to bear in all the great centres of
Europe and America in support of the most marvellous
“Psychic” facts,* be rationally ignored? Yet they are,"with
stolid dogmatic effrontery. j-We state our honest convictions,
which are denied by the sceptic on a priori grounds, and with¬
out offering to us instead a reasonable explanation of our
assumed delusions. Our calm statements, and solemn aver¬
ments in reference to the so-called Spiritual phenomena, are
laughed to scorn, and we, the observers, who know they are
real, and are certainly of a super-ordinary character, are held
up by a body of materialistic savans to public ridicule and
odium; whilst the poor medium, the mere machine through
whom these marvels are produced, is threatened with condign
punishment by the law, set in motion, it may be, by some
baffled egotist to satisfy his own blind unreasoning and base¬
less prejudices. Well then, I say, having failed by reason and
accumulated testimony to impress the minds of those who
ought not to be indifferent to the marvellous facts by which
they are surrounded, let us, the believers, stand aside for
awhile, and watch patiently the action of those invisible dis¬
turbers of the peace, the stone-throwers and bell-ringers,
who seem determined to force the truth by rude but striking
examples of their power; and let us not be surprised—for
after the recent stupendous proofs of “psychic” force, we
ought not to be surprised at anything the invisible workers
may accomplish—let us not be surprised if their mission
should culminate for the present, by 1 ‘ catching up 1—as Philip
the Evangelist was at Gaza—one of our most popular lecturers,
and by suspending him, like Mahomet’s coffin, in his own hall,
where a multitude of witnesses shall attest the fact, settle
the controversy of spiritual forces at once and for ever. Nous
verrons.
MARRIAGE OF MR. D. D. HOME.
Mr. Home is now in Paris, in which city he will be married
on Tuesday next to Mdlle. Julie de Gloumeline, of St.
Petersburgh, youngest daughter of the late Basil de Gloume¬
line, Councillor of State. The ceremony will be in accordance
with the rites of the Greek Church, and will be ratified at
H. M.’s Embassy. The brothers of the bride, his excellency
Michael de Gloumeline, Conseiller du College, and Basil de
Gloumeline, Lieutenant de la garde de S.M. L'Erwpereur de
Russie, will act as groomsmen, so also will the Baron Conrad
de Meyendorffi Madlle. de Gloumeline is on both sides of
the house related to the oldest of the Russian nobility. Her
grandmother, a Countess de Zouboff, the last of a long and
illustrious line, married an AksakofF, whose family is in line
direct from some of the early Russian princes ; by him she
had several children, one of whom married M. Gloumeline.
the father of Mr. Home’s future bride. The cousins AksakofF
hold distinguished positions in Russia as men of talent and
wealth.. A sister of Madlle. Gloumeline is married to Pro¬
fessor BoutlerofF, of the University of St. Petersburgh. Mr.
Home and his bride will return to London at once, and leave
early in November for Russia.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
MORE EXPERIMENTS BY MR. CROOKES.
The October number of the ' Quarterly Journal of Science
contains another long article by its editor, Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., on “Psychic Force,” a very wonderful force,
which sometimes talks with an audible voice, though Mr.
Crookes does not say so. The article is very interesting, and
is illustrated by thirteen wood-cuts.
When the council of the Dialectical Society appointed a
Committee to expose Spiritualism, they were just as jubilant
about the certain result, as the scientific world and the news¬
papers were when Mr. Crookes undertook the same work.
Mr. Crookes says :—
“ It is edifying to compare some of the present criticisms with those that
were written twelve months ago. When I first stated in this journal that I
was about to investigate the phenomena of so-called spiritualism, the
announcement called forth universal expressions of approval. One said
that my ‘ statements deserved respectful consideration; ’ another expressed
‘ profound satisfaction that the subject was about to be investigated by a man
so thoroughly qualified as,’&c.; athirdwas 1 gratified to learn thatthe matter
is now receiving the attention of cool and clear-headed men of recognised
position in sciencce; a fourth asserted that1 no one could doubt Mr. Crookes’s
ability to conduct the investigation with rigid philosophical impartiality;’
and a fifth was good enough to tell its readers that ‘if men like Mr.
Crookes grapple with the subject, taking nothing for granted until it is
proved, we shall soon know how much to believe.’
These remarks, however, were written too hastily. It was taken for granted
by the writers that the results of my experiments would be in accordance
with their preconceptions. What they really desired was not the truth, but
an additional witness in favour of their own foregone conclusion. When
they found that the facts which that investigation established could not be
made to fit those opinions, why,—1 so much the worse for the facts.’ They
try to creep out of their own confident recommendations of the enquiry by
declaring that ‘Mr. Home is a clever conjurer, who has duped us all.’ ‘ Mr.
Crookes might, with equal propriety, examine the performances of an
Indian juggler.’ ‘ Mr. Crookes must get better witnesses before he can be
believed,’ ‘ The thing is too absurd to be treated seriously.’ ‘ It is im¬
possible, therefore can’t be.’* ‘ The observers have all been biologised (!)
and fancy they saw things occur which really never took place,’ &c., &c.”
In another part of the article Mr. Crookes says that on
June 15th, 1871, he forwarded an account of his experiments
to the Royal Society, and invited the two secretaries, Pro¬
fessor Sharpey and Professor Stokes, to come to his house and
see the experiments with Mr. Home. Dr. Sharpey politely
declined the invitation. Professor Stokes, in the course of
his reply, said :—
“ The facts you mentioned in the paper were certainly at first sight very
strange, but still possible modes of explanation occurred to me which were
not precluded by what I read in the paper. If I have time when I go to
London I will endeavour to call at your house. I don’t want to meet anyone;
my object being to scrutinise the apparatus, not to witness the effects.”
Professor Stokes raised objections to imaginary defects in
Mr. Crookes’s apparatus, which Professor Stokes did not call
to look at, though invited. To do away with all quibbling,
Mr. Crookes made fresh apparatus, so that contact with Mr.
Home’s hands should be made through water, through which
he could not possibly exert! muscular force. Again Mr.
Crookes wrote to Professor Stokes:—
“ Mr. Home ia coming here on Wednesday and Friday evenings; if you
can come on either or both occasions at 8 p.m., I shall be glad to see you, or
if you only wish to scrutinise the apparatus, I will be here at any time you
like to name.” J
A few days later Professor Stokes wrote in reply :—
“ As I was otherwise engaged so as not to be able conveniently to go to
your house, I may as well mention the possible sources of error which
occurred to me with reference to your first apparatus, I don’t suppose they
all exist.”
Mr. Crookes in another letter said -
“Three years ago (June 27th, 1868), I sent a paper to the Society, ‘ On the
Measurement of the Luminous Intensity of Light,’ just after the Session
closed. It was not read till December 17th. My wish would be for a
similar course to be adopted in the present instance, although I am scarcely
, sanguine enough to expect that so much notice will be taken of these com¬
munications. So many scientific men are now examining into these strange
phenomena (including many Fellows of the Society), that it cannot be
many years before the subject will be brought before the scientific world in
a way that will enforce attention. I confess that in sending in these papers
to. the Society, I have been actuated more by the desire of being the first
scientific experimenter who has ventured to take such a course, than by
any particular desire that they should meet with immediate attention. I
owe to the Society the first intimation of important scientific results, and
these I shall continue to send, ‘pourprmdre date' if for no other reason.”
Isr addition to the correspondence published in our
last, Mr. C. W. Pearce, President of the Kilburn Society
of Spiritualists, has received the following letter from
Professor Allen Thomson, F.R.S.:—
“ Sir,—In reply to your letter of the 8th inst., which, in
consequence of. my absence from Glasgow, I have only now
received, I beg leave to say that in my address in Section D
of the British Association, when I included spiritualistic along
with mesmeric, magnetic^ and other like phenomena, I had no
intention of imputing dishonesty to Spiritualists in particular,
nor of doing more than indicating my view that they belonged
to the same class of phenomena, various modifications of which
I conceived admitted of being explained on known physio¬
logical principles, and had received sufficient examination
from competent persons as well as from myself.
“ As I have no wish to give offence or to be otherwise than
just and respectful to any who are engaged in scientific or
supposed scientific inquiries, I have thought it proper, in re¬
cently revising the proof of my address for printing in the
Transactions of the Association, to introduce some corrections,
which may cause my meaning to be more correctly expressed,
I shall be glad to send you a copy of the address when I
receive the printed copies. I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
“Allen Thomson.
“ C. W. Pearce, Esq., President Kilburn Society, &c.
“ P.S.—May I request you to be so good as to communicate
the substance of the foregoing to the secretary of your society,
from whom a letter was sent to me long after its date when I
was absent from Glasgow.”
Another edition of Mr. D. D. Home’s book, Incidents of
My Life, will be published in December.
The Kilburn Society of Spiritualists will soon begin its
work for the winter. Mr. A. C. Swihton, of 5, Cambridge-
road, Kilburn, is the hon. secretary.
Miss Kate Fox is on her way to England, and is now
expected daily. She will probably be the guest of Mr. Cole¬
man in the first instance,
"We have heard some good accounts of the mediumship
of Miss Lottie Fowler, who recently arrived in London, but
cannot at present speak from direct knowledge.
The Earl of Dunraven, Richard Windham Wyndham-
Quin, passed to spirit life on Friday, the 6th inst.; his son,
Lord Adare, late Lieutenant of the 1st Life Guards, succeeds
to the family title as fourth earl. The late Earl of Dunraven
was a convert to Spiritualism, and, with Lord Adare, wrote
and printed a book of about 200 pages for private circulation,
describing the Spiritual.manifestations they had witnessed in
the presence of. Mr. D. D. Home. The book also gives the
names and addresses of fifty witnesses of more or less eminence
who attended the seances.
Professor Huxley and Professor Tyndall did not accept the
invitation of the committee of the Dialectical Society to
witness Spiritual manifestations; the two secretaries of the
Royal Society, it will be seen, also refused to observe facts
when invited to do so by Mr. Crookes. All this tends to
prove that the charge brought by the public, that scientific
men neglect their duty in not investigating this subject when
invited, is a just one. Mr. Home once, in the Pall Mall
Gazette, invited Professor Tyndall to witness the manifesta¬
tions, and Professor Tyndall did not accept the offer. We
are not sorry for it, because under present conditions those
philosophers only who care nothing for public opinion, but
search anywhere after truth for its own sake, are quietly in¬
quiring privately into Spiritualism, and thus we gain sup¬
porters worth having, whilst the more conventional and self-
important men shut themselves out.
The principle of the most interesting experiment made by
Mr. Crookes, may be explained by the aid of the following
cut:—
A >*»*-
N Nl
—yr*ur~^r
In this cut D,K. is a table, on which is placed the
tambourine, D,E. The lever V,H,P,N, is heaviest at the
end Y, and rests upon the point F, which presses upon the
parchment. The fulcrum of the lever is at H. A plate of
smoked glass, A,B,R, W, is slowly drawn by clockwork in the
direction indicated by the arrow. A fine point at the end
of the lever presses against the glass, and scratches away the
lamp-black when the lever moves. Thus, if the lever were
still, a straight line would be scratched upon the glass, but if
it moved, there would be a zig-zag line, as at N,N. The
medium placed her hands on the table, but was not allowed
to touch the apparatus. Raps then came upon the parch¬
ment, the vibrating parchment moved the lever, so that the
raps drew a zig-zag line on the glass-plate. As a self-record¬
ing instrument cannot be biologised, this experiment answers
Dr. Balfour Stewart’s objection that the observers at circles
may possibly be in such an abnormal state of mind, as to
imagine that they see things which do not take place.
We have said that I raps came upon the parchment.” Mr.
Crookes does not say so, since if he used the word “raps,”
or “ medium,” or “spirit,” it would act upon the Royal Society
like a red rag dangled before a turkey-cock. Mr. Crookes
does not say “raps,” but “percussive noises.” We under¬
stand that in future the word “ spirit-lamp ” will be abolished
from his journal, the Chemical News, and that he dares not
write about “ spirits of wine,” lest the nerves of the readers
should be dangerously shocked.
Some few Spiritualists have raised the question, “ What
’ * The quotation occurs to me, “ I never said it was possible, I only said
it was true.”—W. 0.
use are the experiments of Mr. Crookes to us? They may do
for uninformed scientific men, especially those too weak to
bear the idea of spirits, but we knew all these things years
ago.” Mr. Crookes at least has placed on record some of the
best testimony extant as to the reality of the physical pheno¬
mena, by selecting as his witnesses a vice-president of the
Royal Society, and a well-known judge, neither of them
Spiritualists, but men not likely to incur the large amount of
popular clamour which now greets their ears, had they not
felt it to be a bounden duty to tell the truth about a very
serious subject, that subject being the fact of the existence of
telegraphic communication between the living and the “ dead.”
Soon The Spiritualist will be published at shorter intervals.
Mr. and Mrs. Home return to town on Wednesday, and
will probably visit Malvern shortly.
“All the Year Round” of yesterday contains the story
of “The Drummer of Ted worth,” one of the best authenticated
ghost stories on record.
In the early numbers of The Spiritualist some very good
physical and trance manifestations through the mediumship
of Mrs. Perrin were reported. Mr. Perrin is a professional
mesmerist; his address is 95, Camberwell-road, London.
Dr. Lionel Beale on Spiritualism.—The Journal of
the Quekett Microscopical Club for this month contains the
presidential address of Dr. Lionel S. Beale, F.R.S. In the
course of his remarks the President said :—“ But history will
have to record in these days of fact and law inexorable, when
physical science was taught in village schools [we wish it
was'], and 'physical philosophers ruled supreme in society
\their want of knowledge of the most important of the sciences
makes them the laughing-stock of a large section of society], that
certain Fellows of the Royal Society associated themselves
with a so-called ‘medium ’ to investigate the so-called spiritual
phenomena, and to consider whether table turning and chair
lifting, and accordion playing, without the action of the
medium’s muscles, was or was not due to ‘ psychic force.’ The
details you will find in a journal called The Spiritualist, where,
I regret to say, you will also notice the statement that Mr.
Alfred Wallace, the naturalist, the intimate ally of Darwin
and Huxley, is an avowed Spiritualist. {There is a long article
by Mr. Wallace in No. 15 of The Spiritualist.] What an
avowed Spiritualist may be I know not, bub under the direc¬
tions given to form spirit circles I find that ‘ people who do
not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for such
a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except
with well-developed physical (?) mediums. It is not yet
known why belief or unbelief has no influence on the mani¬
festations, but an acrid (?) feeling against them is a weaken¬
ing influence. {This last sentence is inexactly quoted.] A
prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle is
likely to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits,
and there is much more that I need not quote. Here, indeed,
is a commentary upon the materialistic tendencies of the age,
humiliating and painful enough.”
Spiritual Disturbances at Peckham.—For the past
two or three weeks, since Mr. Coleman’s article, printed in
another column, was written, the spirits have occasionally, in
broad daylight, broken more windows before the eyes of the
police and many other observers, notwithstanding that a re¬
ward of £20 has been all along offered for the detection of
the offenders. One of the re-glazed windows of Mr. Howe,
grocer, East Surrey-grove, was smashed by a stone, the value
of the sheet of glass broken being £6 5s. Two days later,
shortly after, one window in the shop of Mrs. Harding, St.
George’s-road, had been smashed before the eyes of Serjeant
Phillips a piece of red brick came over the people’s heads, and
smashed another pane, before the eyes of about a hundred
witnesses. The mischief done in the locality has been confined
to an area of about 250 square yards, and the stones have
come at different angles, and in different streets at the same
time. Upon any theory several persons must be at work doing
the mischief, and the police are fairly bewildered. Full reports
of the occurrences are printed week after week in the South
London Press, a very good local paper. Its first report does
not seem to be quite accurate, as it says that a boy was hurt
by a stone ; Inspector Gedge says that he has not heard of
anybody having been hurt. Perhaps, if some good medium
had a stance on the spot, the spiritual cause of the mischief
would be found out; but the question is whether it would not
be dangerous for a sensitive medium to venture within reach
of such spirits as those who seem to be at work there.
The Jprobability is that some great crime has at some time
or other been committed, on the spot, since only very low
spirits, like those which inhabit haunted houses, can sometimes
produce violent manifestations without the presence of amedium.
In connection with this subject, Mr. W.. H. Harrison, of
Chaucer-road, S.E., gives the following account of a stance
at which he was present last Sunday evening:—“ The seance
was held at 3, Clyde-terrace, Stockwell, the residence of
the Misses Ponder, who were both present. There were
present also Dr. Ponder, Mrs. Rudd, Mr. and Mrs. Bassett, and
myself. I questioned a spirit named James Lombard about the
stone-throwing by spirits at Peckham. He said that he did
not know who the spirits were who made the disturbances, but
he strongly disapproved their doings. I asked him ‘ whether,
if they could make their presence known there in no other way,
physically proving their existence was not of more importance
than smashing a few windows ?’ He replied, ‘ No. How would
you like your windows broken ?’ I remarked that ‘ Perhaps
I' might not like it at the time, but afterwards I should be
glad of it, if it led me to learn for the first time the truth of
Spiritualism.' ‘ Not you,’ said he, ‘ you would not have
believed if they had smashed your windows; you are too hard-
headed.’ I answered that ‘ Most likely I should not be made
a convert at first by the window-breaking, but if it led me to
begin a course of inquiry, the benefit done would be the same
in the end. Had they not some spiritual policemen to look
after these window-breakers?’ ‘No,’ he replied, ‘and
they were not justified in doing the damage.’ He said that,
as on earth, some of the spirits in the next world were not
particularly good, and did not always give their real names
at circles. ‘ In fact,’ he candidly added, * I did not mean to
give my real name at first, but my brother was at the circle,
and I saw that by proving to him who I was I should do him
much good. He has led a better life ever since.” On the
same evening at supper time, in a bright light, I was slowly
carried along in my chair about six inches, while my feet
were off the ground, and nobody and nothing touching the
chair. Another chair, with nobody in it or touching it, moved
about a good deal before our eyes for about five minutes, and
tilted every now and then. Mrs. C. E. Bassett, of Thornham-
grove, Stratford, E., was the medium. The spirit, James
Lombard, speaks with an audible voice, and he is the brother
of one of the employees of the Great Eastern Railway Company
at Stratford.”
206
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1871
Olomspnimtce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who, sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
DIBECT SPIRIT ‘WHITING.
SlB,—I called yesterday afternoon (September 25th) on Mr.
Andrews, to give instructions about some clothes which he
is making for me. In his shop in Lamb’s Conduit-street, I
encountered Mr. Williams, the medium, who occupies, jointly
with Mr. Herne, apartments in Mr. Andrew’s house, and whom
I hare frequently met before. While we were talking together,
Mr. Andrews on one side of his counter, Mr. Williams and
myself on the other, we heard a voice which we recognised
as that of John King, greeting me in a way which he has
frequently done before. I had been speaking with Mr.
Andrews about the anxiety which he and Mrs. Andrews must
feel from the unexpected absence of a member of his family,
and John’s interjections, heard now and then as we talked,
were evidently intended to compose the mind of Mr. Andrews.
As John did not reply to our questions at once, and then only
intermittently, and, as it were, by effort, I suggested that we
should try to furnish the condition of absence of light, when John
might be enabled to speak more easily. (I beg to whisper in
scientific ears that, as this particular “ psychic force ” calls it¬
self by a name, I assign that name to it.) We therefore extem¬
porised a little cabinet in the light, it being then 3 p.m., by
placing a chair on the counter, and hanging over it dark
woollen cloth. We said—“ Now, friend John, we trust you
have a condition for more continuous speaking and while
listening for this we heard something fall within our little
cabinet. Upon putting in a hand, it was found to be coin of
small amount, which might have been transferred from the
pocket of either one of us present, and not be missed, but I
calculated afterwards that I ought to have had just so much
more in my own pocket. We supposed that John was showing
what might be done in it. My gloves were lying, with my um¬
brella, between me and the cabinet, (I must dignify it by that
name.) We heard the word “ Gloves ” in John’s voice, and
sure enough from almost under my nose my gloves had been
conveyed to within the cabinet. “ If you can do this, John,”
said Mr. Andrews, “ I think you can write, if you cannot
speak. I wish you could compose our minds about the absent
one.’’ Presently we saw the hanging cloth of the cabinet
move. Mr. Andrews lifted the chair and we saw a line of
writing in chalk; but as the chair was drawn aside, the cloth
hanging from it swept over the writing and made it indistinct.
There had been a piece of tailor’s chalk near, but not within
the covered chair, our cabinet. We joined in requesting John
to take the trouble to kindly write again, what we had so
unguardedly obliterated, this time with a pencil on paper. We
heard the words, “ I’ll try.” Mr. Andrews put into his cabinet
then a piece of blank note paper and a lead pencil; presently
we heard the pencil fall, and saw the curtain move from
within, as we had seen before. The paper was drawn out,
and on it was written: “ She is well. Bear up.” John’s voice
said, “ No more now,” and we returned him our thanks.
Of course it was to the mediumship of Mr. Williams that
we owed the witnessing of these phenomena with our extem¬
porised cabinet. He said he had an impression when each
little phenomenon occurred, and each was visibly accompanied
by a slight shock, or tremor of his nervous system.*
8, Great Ormond-street. J. Dixon, L.R.C.P., Ed.
THE RELIGIOUS OPINIONS OE SPIRITS.
SlB,—I had the pleasure of listening to the very able lecture
given by Mr. C. W. Pearce to the Dalston Association of
Enquirers into Spiritualism, on the 5th inst., and to an interest¬
ing discussion, to which some of his remarks gave rise, respect¬
ing the doctrinal opinions given by spirits, and more especially
when such opinions are contained in replies to questions put
by enquirers during the initiatory part of their investigations.
My own experience has been that when questions on
doctrine are put by enquirers through a table, the answers are
most frequently in accordance with the opinions of the en¬
quirer ; but when the interrogations are put through a trance
medium the replies partake very largely of the views held by
the medium. This, however, is not always the case, as the
following fact, which may be of interest to your readers, will
show.
A lady, with whom I am well acquainted, became interested
in Spiritualism some eight years since, and was convinced by
tests she received that she was in communication with her
mother who had passed away some years previously, and who
during her earth-life had been a Roman Catholic. The medium
used was a Swedenborgian, through whom the spirit urged her
daughter to continue a member of the Roman Catholic Church,
thus giving a message opposed to the medium’s own theo¬
logical convictions. A similar message was also given through
another medium who was neither a Catholic nor a Sweden¬
borgian. The lady followed her mother’s wishes, somewhat
against her own inclinations, but after some time had elapsed
she had other messages from her mother through the same
mediums and still accompanied by tests of identity, asking.her
no longer to attend the Catholic Church, but giving her reli¬
gious teachings somewhat similar to those held by the Sweden-
borgians. I have lately, when in conversation with the spirit
of this lady’s mother through a third medium—a Sweden¬
borgian—heard her refer to the opinions she held on first
entering the spirit world and to the advice she had given her
daughter. R. Pearce,
32, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, E.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—I have known the writer of the letter signed “ A
Convert ” for sixteen years, and while I am sure that you can
rely upon the accuracy of any statement he may make, I con¬
sider him a man most unlikely to be led away by his feelings,
or to allow any excitement to interfere with the calm exercise
of his judgment. Being engaged in business of large extent,
requiring all his time and attention, he is unwilling to make
public his name and address ; but if any sincere inquirer wishes
to see him, and will write to me and ask for it, it shall be
given in confidence. W. Beadell.
8, Yere-street, Cavendish-square,
October 11th, 1871.
The following is the letter :—
“ Sib,—Having lately had several seances privately, with¬
out the presence of a professional medium, at which some
remarkable results were obtained, it may interest some of
your readers to hear what took place. I may state that I have
attended seances at Messrs. Herne and Williams’s lately, and
* Mr. Andrews informs ns that on a subsequent occasion while he and
Mr. Heme were in a room behind the shop, John King wrote a sentence on
the counter with a piece of French chalk.—Ed.
was thoroughly convinced of the reality of the manifesta¬
tions, but, at the same time, felt that it would be a satisfaction
to obtain similar results among my Own friends, without the
presence of a professional medium. While staying at the sea¬
side, I had, therefore, four evenings, the persons present
being my wife, myself, a young lady, and a gentleman, inti¬
mate friends, who were on a visit. The two latter I will call
Miss A. and Mr. H. All except myself were utter disbelievers
in Spiritualism.
“ First Evening.—We sat at a small round table in the
drawing room. Shortly after commencing, the table was
lifted and moved about the room. Messages were given by
raps, and in answer to my inquiry whether a medium was
present, the name of H. was spelt. I asked if another medium
was present, the reply being ‘ doubtful.’ The table having
crossed the room, I asked to have it brought to its original
position. After moving slightly in my direction, and stopping,
it was turned round, we following, until H. had his back
towards the place indicated, when it at once moved back,
pushing him before it. A match-box was brought from
another part of the room and placed on the table.
“ Second Evening.—We used a large round table of very
considerable weight. This was lifted, moved, and as before,
questions were answered. Lights appeared, visible to all of
us, flashing about, and especially above H. I ask again ‘ if
anyone else is a medium ;’ reply, ‘ Yes.’ I ask for the name
to be spelt, when my wife’s name is given. H. is frequently
touched, and A. is touched on the hands. I ask for further
manifestations, to convince A. H. asks for a book. Imme¬
diately afterwards H. feels his chair dragged away; asks for a
light, when we find him laid on the floor (quite noiselessly),
in a trance apparently, a book from a table in another part of
the room upon his knee, his watch placed upon the sofa at
some distance, the chain hanging loose from his waistcoat, a
ring on the sofa beside it which was on his fingers (A. having
kept hold of his hand from the commencement), and a ring
which was fastened to the swivel of his chain having disap¬
peared altogether.
“ Tim'd Evening.—I place a speaking tube, consisting of a
short roll of paper, upon the table. Lights appear. I ask if
Katie is present, as it appears to me that the manifestations
very much resemble those of Messrs. Herne and Williams.
Reply, ‘ Yes.’ My wife asks for a book. A French novel from
a corner table is at once thrown down in front of her. She
asks for H.’s watch-key, lost the night before. It is brought
immediately. A. is touched. I ask Katie to speak through the
tube. She refuses, but floats it, and upon my lighting a candle,
it falls on the table, while a carrot (which my little nephew had
brought to give to my horse, and placed on the sideboard) is
thrown upon A.’s shoulder. My wife, A., and I now sit alone.
A band of light appears round the neck of my wife, and
directly afterwards we distinctly see a female figure move
across the room; H.’s chair, which he had left, is moved away,
and the figure passes close to my wife. While this is transpir¬
ing, she calls to H. to know if he has moved, and he replies
from a sofa in another part of the room, where he is sitting.
He rejoins the circle, and asks Katie to bring flowers for the*
ladies. (There were no flowers at the time in the house.)
Some double' geraniums and other cut flowers are at once
placed in front of them both. Shortly afterwards he says that'
his boots and coat are being removed. I strike a light, when
we find his coat half off, his boots, one on the sofa, the other
some yards from him, and his handkerchief, which was in his
pocket, in a corner tied in a knot. He now asks Katie to
bring him something from his house in London, A photo¬
graph of a valued friend which he had placed in an album,
locked in a box, and, the box locked in a drawer at home, is
immediately placed on the table in front of him. We now
sit again without him. The flowers I placed upon the mantel¬
piece. We again see a figure come between A. and myself,
and apparently throw something. (I call to H. instantly, who
replies from a bay window where he is sitting.) On striking
a light we find the flowers in two directions on the floor (A.
and my wife having felt them pass their faces), and one upon
A.’s head. The photograph which H. had put in his pocket
has entirely disappeared.
" Fourth Evening.—We sit without H. My head is violently
struck by some soft substance, and directly afterwards we see
something move between us, and feel something soft drawn
across our hands on both sides of the table. H. rejoins the
circle, and asks for fruit and flowers, and apples (neither of
which were imthe house), and some flowers are brought. My
wife asks for something from a side-table. Her pocket-book,
the only thing belonging to her among many there, is brought
her. She asks for something else, when the photograph which
had disappeared on the previous evening is again brought, and
at. the same time H. is thrown into a trance.
“ I may state that during these manifestations we never let
go of one another’s hands, except when one of our number was
removed from the circle, and that all present are prepared to
vouch for the facts stated above. I was the only one present
who had been present previously at a stance. Many of the
results may be due to Katie’s well-known love of mischief, but
they were quite sufficient to convince us all that manifesta¬
tions of a startling character can be obtained without the pre¬
sence of any professional medium. “ A CONVERT.”
ABE ALL SCRIPTURE MIRACLES TRUE ?
Sir,—The September Spiritualist foot-note question to my
article What is a Miracle?—“ Are all the Christian Scripture
miracles true?” surprised and pained me. I regret that a
month has had to intervene before I could answer. I do so
now, by unhesitatingly stating “ Yes.” As a Christian, as a
member of the Church of England, I glory in the narratives of
Spiritualistic phenomena therein related. They prove Spirit
life, Spirit help, Spirit guidance, under the guidance of the
great Spirit God.
I believe the narratives because, they read as if true—
because, the Jews were notoriously exact in their accuracy of
parchment narratives — because the men who averred the
Christian doctrines were publicly persecuted, scourged, tor¬
tured, put in boiling oil, sawn asunder for refusing to deny the
facts. They were men who suffered hunger, thirst, nakedness,
&c., through the intense viciousness of the theological and
scientific schools of those days, days superior to ours in skill, in
the arts and sciences. Men who have suffered those miseries,
commend themselves to my confidence. Moreover, I believe
the Scripture miracles are true, because I have seen nearly all
their equivalents in the quiet of my own home life. I have
seen the gift of miracles in action. The gift of healing, of
seeing spirits, of prophecy, and other gifts also. I have seen
inanimate objects as well as human persons floating in the air;
I have, therefore, reason for trusting the narrative that Philip
was carried in the air thirty-two miles to Azotus, and that
Christ was carried to the pinnacle of the Temple. Surely
Christians have as great a right to be free from sneers as anti-
Christians desire to be, for narrating to us that a lady was
carried not only from Holloway in the air, but through brick
walls, to a1 room in Lambs Conduit-street, London ; and also
that shells and a ribbon were taken from a circle room at
Kingston, and carried over the country and over the German
Ocean to a lady in Ostend. As a Christian Spiritualist, I
protest against anti-Christian Spiritualists so systematically
impugning the testimony of others as in past history, and yet
asking us to believe in incidents like the foregoing in now-a-
day history. , . <
Christians were and are in Britain equal, and in some in¬
stances superior to any anti-Christians in reasoning and scien¬
tific knowledge, men whose wisdom, whose knowledge, and
grey hairs have made their names national. Need I name
other than Milton as a poet, Newton as a man of science,
Bacon of a past age, and Faraday and Herschel of this, beside
a host of others.
The power of God, through His principles enunciated in the
Jewish and Christian Scriptures, is steadily subduing the
nations. The great power of Christianity is, through the
activity of the British race, working itself into all the nations
of the world. Its ; principles, “ Bless those that curse you; do
good to those who despitefully persecute you,” heralded by
the signs and wonders, by the miracles as narrated in its
sacred books, are directly and indirectly moulding the political
movements of those nations. And the greatest harm is done
by anti-Christians being called Christians in foreign lands,
because they came from a nation called Christian, though they
believe not in angel or devil, or in a hereafter.
Enmore-park, S.E. John Jones.
THE WORK OF A PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
BY THE EDITOR.
In my last article oh this subject, I pointed out several
openings for experimental work applied to the mesmeric
phenomena connected with spiritual manifestations, hut
the end of the article was kept out for want of space.
I now add the few remarks thus crowded out, which
are intended to show a little that may also be done in
the way of experimental investigation by the physical
philosopher.
At voice circles considerable changes in the tempera¬
ture of the hands and feet of the sitters often take place,
and more especially is this the case with the medium.
The amount and order of these changes require observing
and registering, and as some of the most remarkable of
the physical manifestations take place in the dark, the
changes of temperature from minute to minute could
perhaps be best registered by means of thermo-piles let
into the woodwork of the table under the hands of the
sitters, with conducting wires communicating with re¬
flecting galvanometers and self-recording photographic
cylinders fixed in another room. An attempt might also
be made to get the common table manifestations at all
times under such conditions as to place unconscious
muscular action out of the question, and this might
perhaps be done by establishing contact between the
hands of the sitters and the table, by means of short
pieces of rope not under tension, since rope will conduct
that force which Reichenbach discovered to emanate
from the human body, and which is probably much used
by the spirits in producing the manifestations. Then
again, further attempts might be made to do away with
dark circles, by filling the room with rays which we can
see by, but which possibly may not weaken the manifes¬
tations. My experiments on this point, already pub¬
lished in these pages, tend to show that the longer rays
of the visible part of the spectrum are more likely to
answer the purpose than the shorter ones. A low red
or yellow light might perhaps do.
The physical philosopher who inquires into this
subject, has to face phenomena so astounding, that his
uninformed compeers only meet the assertion that such
manifestations actually take place, with the loud rude
tongue of denial; a plan of action which temporarily
shields their own want of knowledge. Take, for in¬
stance, the circumstance of solid objects being frequently
made by the spirits to pass through other solid objects.
Once when the Davenports—so untruthfully “ written
down ” by the newspapers—had their manifestations
tested at the residence of Lord Borthwick, this pheno¬
menon took place in the presence of good witnesses.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Bernard Yillas, Upper Nor¬
wood, gave the following account of the manifestations
to the listeners at one of the Harley-street meetings last
winter:—
“ At the residence of Lord Borthwick, Ira Davenport and
William Fay were each bound to a chair within two yards of
the company present. It was intended to show the wonderful
feat of Mr. Fay’s coat being twitched off in the dark interval
©f a few seconds, while his arms were fast bound behind him.
But instead of that Ira Davenport’s waistcoat came off and
was thrown at my feet, his coat remaining on ; and on
examining the waistcoat it was found to be fully buttoned,
with his watch in the pocket, and the chain suspended and
fastened through the button-hole, just as he was seen to have
worn it ten or fifteen seconds before.
“ On another occasion, at the Hanover-square Rooms, when
Professor Taylor, as he was called (who lectured at the Coli¬
seum against Spiritualism, as long as it paid, but who since
then has become a convert, and is now a proclaimed Spiritual¬
ist), tied Mr. Fay up in a most intricate way, with a long
piece of rope, making many knots, and fastening the final
knot at the back of the chair. It was then sealed by Colonel
Drayson (I think it was he who is an astronomer of high repute
in Her Majesty’s service at Woolwich, and an avowed Spirit¬
ualist), and in two or three minutes, when the light was
restored, we found Mr. Fay liberated, with every knot re¬
moved except the final knot, which of course, under ordinary
circumstances, must have been the first to be loosened before
the other intermediate knots could be untied. This, however,
Oct. 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
the final knot, with the seal intact, remained, and this is the
identical piece which I cut off and carried away, and which I
have had in my possession ever since.”
I quote .the foregoing account because it leads up to
the statement I have now to make :—
One morning, a few weeks ago, I called, in passing, upon
Messrs. Herne and Williams in Lamb’s Conduit-street. They
raised the question of trying to obtain the spirit voices under
test conditions, and suggested that I should stop their mouths
with strips of sticking plaster. I said, “ How can I tell that
you do not take it off in the dark and put it on again ; you
should also be tied up.’’ This was agreed to, and six yards of
new rope were sent for. I remarked, “ If this is to be a test
seance some other witnesses besides myself should be present;
who can we get ?” All we could do was to send downstairs
for Mr. Andrews, of whom they rent their apartments ; he is
an old-established and respectable tradesman. I placed the
mediums in two chairs, back to back, and after passing the
central part of the rope round their waists, we tied the four
hands of the mediums to the four back legs of the chairs, so
that as they sat in the chairs, their arms hung down vertically
a little behind them. They were tied so that there was no
possibility of their getting their hands free themselves. Then
the final knot of the rope was tied tightly under the front rail
of Mr. Williams’s chair close by his boots. I did this in the
hope of witnessing a similar manifestation to that recorded by
Mr. Coleman.
At this point in the operations Count  , who does not
wish his name printed as an inquirer into Spiritualism, acci¬
dentally called, in to try a scientific experiment with a pen¬
dulum. We told him what we were doing, and he helped,
after first examining and strengthening our previous work.
Some lengths of string were then obtained, and with these
the hands of the mediums were further bound to the thick
rope and the back legs of the chairs. Then with more string
we tied the legs of each medium together at the ankles.
Lastly, two pieces of thin string were tied round the thick
rope near its two ends, close by the final knot, the two knots
of these pieces of string were sealed with wax, and much
wax was dropped over the big knot near the end of the rope.
The end of the rope was thus tied and sealed in three places,
under the front rail of the chair, away from the reach of the
hands or teeth of the mediums. Then with strips of sticking-
plaster we sealed up their mouths ; they had to breathe
through the nose. All this time not a rap had been heard, nor
any sign of the presence of the spirits.
“ We then went to the opposite side of the room where the
folding doors were, and before closing the doors to put the
room in darkness, the three of us who had tied them grasped
each others’ hands, and one of us pulled the door to. That
instant Katie King’s voice was heard down by our feet; John
King shouted at us. In less than thirty seconds (timed by
guess) the two mediums were free, and the final knot of the
rope was found to be fastened as we left it; the two pieces of
string and the seals were intact. The rope was still twisted
about the two chairs.
“ I asked the Count to examine the rope, as he was not
present at the beginning of the experiment, to see that it was
all in one piece. The final knots were cut off, and he disen¬
tangled the rope from the chairs, and pulled it inch by inch
from end to end, to satisfy himself that the rope was all right.
“Then we closed the folding doors again, and asked John
King to tie them up. We heard violent noises and the lashing
of ropes, and in two minutes the mediums were found bound
up most tightly and scientifically, with the final knot under
one of the chairs, out of their reach.
“ We tried several other experiments of the same kind.
Once we bound Mr. Williams by himself in a chair at the
further end of the room, and the four of us (including Mr.
Herne) came outside, and closed the folding doors. The
instant the doors were closed they were burst open again by
a blow from the inside, and Mr. Williams plunged into the
front room headlong. He said that the. instant the door
closed he felt himself free, and received a push, which sent
him flying across the room to the door, John King at the same
time shouting out,1 Now then, Ted, old boy, get out, and God
bless you.’ ”
I suggest that these experiments should be repeated
in the presence of witnesses who are not Spiritualists,
Since then, I have had two rings made of thick wrought
iron, too small to go over the head, but large enough for
the neck, to see if the spirits can get one or both of
them round the neck of Mr. Herne or Mr. Williams.
This ring manifestation has been obtained in America,
and there is an authenticated account of it in the last
Year-Book of Spiritualism. A fortnight ago Katie
King tried for about half an hour to get one of them,
made of iron half an inch thick, round the neck of Mr.
Herne, but she failed. Last Saturday week John King
told a large circle of ladies and gentlemen, who were
present witnessing the manifestations, that the ring
experiment would have to be tried in the presence of
Mrs. 0. Berry, and that if it could not be done with
the additional aid of her medial influence, it could not
be done at all. It is very curious that some time ago
Messrs. Herne and Williams lost the voice produced by
John King for a whole week, and were told that he
could not get near them to speak again, unless they had
a sitting with Mrs. Berry. They accordingly had a
seance with her, and John King recovered his power to
speak through their mediumship.
Probably the unravelling of the laws which govern
the passage of solid matter through solid matter, will
occupy scientific men for some centuries. The fact
itself is an enormous one, altogether opposed to all
ordinary experience, outside the realms of Spiritualism.
Mr. Serjeant Cox and Mr. Turley, who published
their desire that a Psychological Society should be
formed, have been supplied with the names and
addresses, which were kindly sent to us, of those ladies
and gentlemen who wish to aid or take part in the
scientific investigation of spiritual phenomena. What
they will do in the matter, or on what principles a
society will be formed, we do not know, but are in¬
formed that the whole. subject will be very seriously
considered within the next few weeks.
SPIRITUALISM IN NORWICH.
The following are notes of seances held at the residences of
Mr. E. D. Rogers, Old Palace-road, Norwich, and of Mr. G.
Dawson, Earlham-terrace, Norwich, during the week ending
September 9th, 1871. In addition to members of Mr. Rogers’
and Mr. Dawson’s families, there were present Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt and Mr. C. W. Pearce of London:—
On the first evening we had numerous raps, and perfumes in
abundance, wafted on cool refreshing breezes, and also beauti¬
ful spirit-lights ; but although we sat in the dark for voices
we had none. There were, however, continual noises as though
the walls and ceilings were being gently brushed with a paper
tube which had been placed on the table. In reply to our
questions, our spirit-friends signified that the noises were those
of preparations which were being made for placing the room
in a condition to secure the utmost possible success at
subsequent sittings.
And certainly the subsequent sittings were as successful as
could have been wished. Two or three times while we were
gathered round a good-sized centre table, raps were heard on
a small stand which stood on one side of the room. On the
friend being asked for his or her name, “ Rose,” the name of
my little girl who departed for the summer-land fifteen months
ago, was spelled out. She was asked if she could bring the
stand to the table, and she did so, the stand moving without i
being touched by any visible being. It was replaced by one
of the sitters, and again it was brought up to the table in the
same way. This, as I have said, occurred at two or three
different seances, and, as it took place in a good light, was
witnessed by all present. On each occasion, after the gas had
been turned out, the spirit lights were very beautiful, fre¬
quently keeping time by their twinkling to the tunes sung by
the company. The perfumes, too,'which were very varied in
character, were exceedingly sweet and refreshing ; and, night
by night, Mrs. Everitt’s spirit friend, John Watt, talked with
us audibly, availing himself of the numerous questions that
were put to him as opportunities for giving us counsel and
information. E. N. Dennys, too, author of Alpha, spoke
audibly for two or three minutes, as did also Mr. Pearce’s
sister Clara; and other voices were heard which I believe
were familiar to some of the company. In reply to a ques¬
tion as to the means by which he was enabled to speak to us,
John Watt stated that he formed from our emanations a throat
and lips, that he collected the medium’s breath in the paper
tube to which it was conveyed by a pipe that he made for the
purpose, and that if the medium spoke there would be danger
of this pipe being broken, to prevent which he sent Mrs.
Everitt into a trance while he talked with us. He also said
that though he collected the medium’s breath in the tube, he
did not, as seemed to be supposed, speak through the tube.
John was asked if the character of the messages which he gave
us was affected by the mental state or capacity of the medium,
and he replied that by the viva voce mode of communication
the messages were not so affected at all,* the only limit to his
ability to convey to us exactly what he wished to say being
the inadequacy of our language to express the knowledge,
thoughts, &c. of the spirit-life. On one occasion it was ob¬
served that Mrs. Everitt before entrancement sang with the
rest of the company, left off for a minute, and then recom¬
menced. On this being incidentally mentioned, Mrs. Everitt
denied that it was so, but when John was shortly afterwards
asked about it, he stated that Mrs. Everitt, during the brief
interval referred to, sang as before, but spiritually and not
physically, and yet she was so little removed from the physical
that she was all the time conscious of her physical surround¬
ings, and did not know but that she had continued to. sing
with her physical organs. When asked whether the natural
world was objective and external? or whether it was subjective
and sensational only? John replied that it was objective, and
yet that it did not exist before man, being in fact the conse¬
quence of man’s existence. He said there would not be time
then to discuss the question, but he should be happy to renew
it on another occasion, though he scarcely hoped to be able to
make us comprehend it. It should be added thatthe perfumes
were several times given us at the seances before the lights
were extinguished, and that we had them very palpably even
while sitting on the beach at Yarmouth, and also while enjoy¬
ing a quiet row on the river at Norwich.
A noteworthy piece of experience was given to us on the
evening of the day we visited Yarmouth. My family were
sitting at the supportable, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt were also with
us, when we were startled by unusually loud and violent blows
upon the table. We were alarmed at the manifestation ; and
the influence accompanying it was inharmonious. The name
of the spirit who was present was requested, and given. He
was asked why he came, and replied—“ Because you once
asked me to visit your house.” Thereupon he was thanked,
and requested to leave at once, and he did leave. Afterwards.
Mrs. Everitt was informed by one of her spirit guardians that
the visit of that spirit was permitted in order that she might
see how effectively she was guarded from any influence which
was prejudicial to her. Her simple request to the spirit to
leave was, under such circumstances, a necessity which could
not be overcome. Edmund D. Rogers.
Old Palace-road, Norwich, Sept., 1871.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
Last Thursday week at a meeting of the Dalston Society
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
Mr. C. W. Pearce, president of the Kilburn Society of Spirit¬
ualists, delivered a short extemporaneous lecture on “ The
Uses of Spiritualism.’’ Mr. T. Wilks, president, occupied the
chair. There was a good attendance.
Mr. C. W. Pearce said that the principal use of Spiritualism
was to give sensuous demonstration that there is a life beyond
the grave; that the spiritual world is around and about us,
and not a great distance off. Christendom says that there is
no need of such a revelation, because mankind has been told
of these things in the Bible ; that we ought not to seek to pry
into the future, or to have dealings with familiar spirits.
Christendom is divided , into hundreds of sects, but the lead¬
ing sects which differ from each other, are—Trinitarians,
Unitarians, Roman Catholics, and Quakers. The Quakers are
a. very influential body considering their small numbers, and
there is a little sect known as Swedenborgians more in¬
telligent than any of the others. But whilst all these sects,
who differ on essential points, claim to found their beliefs
upon one book-—the Bible—the Gentile world, or the people
outside the-Churches, reason thus:—“ They say their Bible is
an infallible guide, yet it teaches them differently on funda-
* At another voice-circle we have heard statements made hy the spirits
which do not agree with this assertion. The question may he considered
an open one till further information is obtained.—Ed.
mental points ; ” therefore, those outside the four hundred
odd sects, discard the Bible altogether, and many scientific
men, including the deepest thinkers in the nation, have formed
the opinion that there is no hereafter. Spiritualism is useful
to Such in proving that there is a life beyond the grave.
Christians who say that the Bible is sufficient for them¬
selves, forget that there are some minds to whom it is not
sufficient, and who, like the unbelieving Thomas, ask
for sensuous demonstration, and the good Father of all, knows
that He has made minds which are accessible to no other
evidence. Consequently, when Thomas asked for sensuous
proof, Jesus gave him the required evidence, asked him to
feel His hands and side, and did not complain about his state
of mind. There are spirits in the other world, holding all the
theological views of the four hundred sects, for the loss of the
earthly body works no miracle with the man himself, but
leaves him in character and thought just the man he was
before. For this reason inquirers into Spiritualism find that
they often have their own theological opinions confirmed by
the spirits, whilst it is the same with their neighbours who
hold other views, consequently they think the teachings of
Spiritualism to be false, forgetting that the spirits nearest to
earth are usually those who have not been long in the other
world, and have not got rid of all the erroneous opinions of
earth-life. Swedenborg, who undoubtedly entered the spirit
world during his lifetime, prohibited the general communion
of mortals with spirits, because in his days mankind was in a
very low state, wrong and persecution reigned triumphant,
the spirits then chiefly acting on men must have been of a
low order, and communion with them would only have made
matters worse. That danger has since been removed. The
spirits who now force those scientific men who have no belief
in a hereafter, to know that there is a life beyond the grave,
consequently making them more careful in their lives, cannot
be evil.
Mr. G. R. Tapp asked : Do spirits always answer theological
questions in accordance with the opinions of the questioner ?*
Mr. Pearce replied that at his own circle they did at first
answer him in accordance with his belief. Probably spirits in
coming back take upon themselves their old thoughts and con¬
dition, for when a spirit who died a painful death, speaks for
the first time through a trance-medium, the medium nearly
always feels the death-pains of the spirit; perhaps they also,
in returning, have to take on many of their old thoughts.
After the spirit has communicated several times, the medium
no longer feels the death-pains, and the utterances of the spirit
seem to become purer and clearer, more in accordance with its
normal state in the next life.
Some spirit present here began to influence Mr. Lambert,
a trance-medium, and through his organism said that God
never intended that man should be without spiritual com¬
munion, it being one of the greatest blessings man could have;
without it life would be void and blank. As long as man
breathed the breath of life, he always had communion with
the spirit world ; the spirits of the departed loved ones watch
over their friends during the still hours of the night, while
the body is racked with pain and sickness; sometimes,
also, during healthy sleep, do they give bright visions
of the spirit land. The churches deal out hell and damna¬
tion to those who seek spiritual communion, but if a son
has a father in the spirit world, reason tells him that he would
like to know—“Is he happy?” When men take reason for
their guide, they will learn that Spiritualism abolishes the fear
of death, showing that death is a bed of flowers, to be traversed
by man to reach the parapets of the eternal world. It takes
but the twinkling of an eye for a spirit to come from the other
side of life, and men are always influenced in thought and
feeling, more or less, by their spirit friends. When the robber
goes on the path of villainy he has evil spirits following him,
whilst the man who does good has angels watching over him.
“ There is no communion,” says the clergyman, whilst in reality
there is perpetual communion which can never be broken by
any dogmatic theology, and in the bright world beyond,
mortals will hereafter meet the communicants face to face ;
the mother will meet her child, and the wife her husband. If
they would begin all their meetings and circles with prayer,
they would have high and holy communications from the
spirit world.
Mr. Harrison remarked that spiritual communications were
usually coloured more or less by the medial channel through
which they had to flow. He was not sure whether this was
not the case, even at those circles where the spirits spoke with
their own voices. Once at one of Mrs. Mary Marshall’s stances,
he asked a spirit who spoke with the audible voice, “ Whether
his utterances were coloured by the thoughts of the medium ? ”
The spirit replied, “ Yes. Even in speaking we are battling
with your thoughts, and working to preserve our individuality.”
Mr. T. Everitt said that he had had four years experience at
home in voice manifestations, and had not noticed anything of
the kind. Mental influences at his circle interfered with the
power of the voice, but not with the teachings or opinions
of the spirit.
Mr. T. Blyton, secretary, made a short statement about the
objects and work of the Dalston Society, after which the usual
votes of thanks were passed, and the meeting broke up.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. T. R., Kilburn.—The causes of a phenomenon are not usually
discovered before the fact itself has been observed.
M. T.—The assertion you sent us about a civilised race in the
interior of Africa, was a quotation from Swedenborg. All
ethnological and geographical experience tells against such an
idea. In places inhabited by savages, the superior races
almost invariably take possession of the sea-coast, whilst the
inferior races live inland-; this has been noticed in many
instances in the islands of the Malayan Archipelago. More¬
over, we are not so very ignorant of much of the interior of
Africa. Portuguese travellers have pierced it from east to west,
but the knowledge they thus obtained is very little known in
England, too much prominence being giving by the' Royal
Geographical Society, and others, to the explorations of English
travellers, and too little to similar work done by foreigners.
T.—Your longer communication has been already published; you
should have told us so, and not allowed us to run the risk, in
an overcrowded journal like this, of reprinting bid matter
without our knowledge. The other letter is in type.
M. D., Bristol.—Kept over for want of space.
0. E. A. B., Stratford.—In type, but kept over for want of space.
J. J., Birmingham-—No room this month.
0. W. P.—Please send the particulars.
A Lover op Truth.—We regret we have no room for your com¬
munication.
J. J.—The letter about a dream-warning kept over for want of
space.
S. Guppy.—The scientific letter kept over for want of room.
T. S.—So theTast “revelation ” contradicts the first.
J. Jones, Liverpool.—A notice of pamphlet in type.
* See Mr, R. Pearce's letter in our correspondenceysolumns.—ED.
208
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Gct. 15, 1871
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. C. F. Varley,
C. E., F.B.G.S., M.B.I.:—
“I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
hem carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperpr and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of- Eussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, th.0iSpiiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following*^gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., Holly House, Bark¬
ing Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., 'Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C,: S. C. Hall, Esq., 16, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Es.q., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq.; 62, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 6,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
.square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Mattel)' to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory.. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a hook recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Eecehtly,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.E.S., editor of-the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal oj
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they.are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870:—
“ 20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“July 13th, 1870.
“ Dear Mr. Varlet,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in-my paper on “ Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—•difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to’a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in-
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
“ I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific) men, as well as sympathy from the good
friends I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours,
William Crookes.”
A work entitled The Booh of Nature, by O. O.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materiahstic,
manufacturing age?—No; for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
. “A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—^Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of "West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at . rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
TFAm reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are Ubise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
iust the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit a/re but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequent'y their ieach-
\ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iourfial to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM 8FIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most- satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the -room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody'shall enter-it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each, other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical medimns; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible .power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an, intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,"
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message f ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
maymak their appearance.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
FOR EFFECTING-
BANKING LIFE, & SELF, INSUBANCE POLICIES
ON GOVEBNMENT SECUBITIES.
Head Offices:
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices
20, King William-street, London, E.C.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Benfleld-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, Dublin.
1, Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool.
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARE
It provides Government Security for the Life Premium
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses of Management, Beserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorse on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “ Surrender-values ” can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.B.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS OLAIBVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Bussell-square, W.O. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN-
QUIBEBS INTO SPIBITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Buies
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. THOS. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
Messrs, herne and williams,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to’ 5 o’clock pirn. They are also open to receive
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.C.
MR. THOMAS R. MASON teach.es
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAE, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
ville Boad, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (comique), entitled 1 Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. B. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels,- and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle,
■\TEXT FRIDAY evening there will be a
IV . SOCIAL GATHEBlNG at Mr. Burn’s Circulating
Library,. 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C., in honour
of Mr.; J. J. Morse, trance-ihedium, who for two years
has done so much publicly for Spiritualism. Befresh-
ments will be proviied at six o’clock. Admission One
Shilling each.
T> EADINGrS from the Poets, &c.—DR.
-I-Vl HUGH MoLEOD is prepared to enter into
arrangements with public institutions, or private parties,
to give Headings, in London, during the winter months.
Terms on application to W. Sinclair, office of this paper.
Now Beady. 4th Edition. 8vo. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s. 6d.
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Bevelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow.”—
A thenseum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
“ The ‘ Alpha ’ is the book of an age.”—Banner of Light.
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTUBES,” cloth
8vo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d.
J. BUBNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
T
Now ready, price 4s.
HE JOURNAL OF THE ANTHRO-
POLOGIAL INSTITUTE OF GBEAT BBITAIN
AND IBELAND, No. II, October 1871, containing
papers by Major God win-Austen on the Khasi Hill
Tribes; Bev. Dr. Callaway on Divination, &c., among the
Natives of Natal; Mr. F. G. N. Price on the Quissama
Tribe of Angola; Lieut. Musters, B.N., on the Baces of
Patagonia; Mr. Hodder Westropp on Analagous Coin¬
cidences among unconnected Nations; Mr. H. Howorth
on Westerly Driftings of Nomades; with Discussions
and Anthropological Miscellanea. London: Triibner
and Co.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Beports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, and contra,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the CounteSs de Pomdr;
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Bobertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr. Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson, Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, L€on Favre, Camille
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home, William
Howitt, H. D- Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varley, A. B. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &c.,- &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Header, and Dyer.
SPIRITUAL OPINION.—A Record of
Psychological Phenomena, and a Beview of the
Theosophy of Spiritism.
: On the 1st of November and on the 1st of each sub¬
sequent month. Price Twopence. 16 pages.
No. 1 contains: Spiritualism in New Zealand—A
Eemarkable Healer—A Mock Stance—Some Experi¬
ments with a New Medium—Madame Huet’s Stances
—Professor Zerffi’s New Book—A Cornish Fasting
Girl — Patagonian Soothsayers — Pastor Jones on
Spiritism—The Future Life—My First Stance, &c.
Manchester: John Heywood, 143, Deansgate, and all
Booksellers. Order early.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg * his
LIFE AND WHITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper'Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
“ It is by the profusion of his extracts, the honesty of
his comments, and the picturesque detail with which he
crowds his pages, that Mr. White at once captivates
attention. The work may be described as a long ex¬
haustive gossip about Swedenborg, his writings and his
disciples; pleasant thoughtful gossip from a mind which
impresses you as being kindly and truthful above the
common. We can with confidence assure thoughtful
readers that there is more to interest them in Mr. White’s
biography than in any work of the year whose professed
object is to entertain.”—Pall Mall Gazette.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Heaven opened; or, messages
for the BEBEAVED from our LITTLE ONES
IN GLOBY. Through the mediumship of F. J. T. With
observations by Mrs. De Morgan. In neat cloth, Is. In
enamel wrapper, 6d. London: J. BURNS, 15, Southamp-
ton-row, Bloomsbury, W.C.
A
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper.
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
| of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST.—No. 1 oi The
Spiritualist contains an overwhelming weight of
evidence for the general public, as to the truth and
reality of Spiritual phenomena. No. 13 contains the
leading arguments in favour of and against the theory
that the manifestations are due to Satanic agency
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.0-.
(Eontents.
The Beport of the Committee of the Dialectical
Society on Spiritualism      201
Mr. Guppy and the Daily Telegraph    202
Stone-throwing by Spirits      204
Marriage of Mr. D. D. Home  205
More Experiments by Mr. Crookes  206
The British Association         265,
Dr. Lionel Beale on Spiritualism   :.... 205
Spiritual Disturbances at Beckham   205
Correspondence—DirectSpirit Writing—TheBeli-
gious Opinions of Spirits—Spiritual Manifestations _
—Are Scripture Miracles all true? -  206
The Work of a Psychological Society     206
Spiritualism in Norwich       207
Spiritualism in Dalston    207
Answers to Correspondents        207
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom.Printing, Works, Fullwood’s Bents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St, Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
