[Resistered as a Newspaper.
$}ff) JOUtN®I<
0^ f^YdfiO^OG^lCSlK
f
CIj.e ioxilj Spintalism xit (inat ^nfaijr.
No. 183.—(Yol. yiii.—No. 8.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1876.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontents.
Physical Manifestations   85
Bibliomancy; or, the Ancient Practice of Divining by
Books: — Instances anaong the Ancient Greeks and
Romans — Instances among Christian Emperors— •
Instances among the Christian Fathers   85
A Psalm of Triumph  87
The Utility of Spiritualism. By Prof. William Denton ... 87
Suspended Animation  89
The Psychological Sociely of Great Britain:—The Harriet
Lane Murder and the Clairaudience of Stokes—The
Franklin Expedition Seen Clairvoyantly—The Clair¬
audience of Sir Charles Napier—Manifestations by the
Spirit during Bodily Sleep—A Murder Revealed in a
Dream—The Primitive Psychology of the Aryans  90
Novel and Curious Manifestations    91
Mr. Moody’s Sermon on Hell      91
Poetry: —Spirit Poetry...    ...    92
Correspondence:—National Association Offices—A Mate¬
rialisation Seance—The Next National Association Con¬
ference—A Spiritual Post-Office—Private Seances in
Manchester—The Yearnings for Immortality of Robert
Bums—Plagiarisms in Spirit Messages   93
Provincial News:—Liverpool, The Mission of Spiritual¬
ism—Bishop Auckland, Spiritualism: Its Use and Abuse
—Netccastle-on-Tyne, A Test Seance   95
The Despotism of Prejudice. By Christian Reimers ... 96
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in South London, 89; Spirit¬
ualism at Croydon, 89; Spiritualism in Dresden, 91;
An Entertainment, 96; Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces 96
Established in 1869.
pHAKGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, tobeaddressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.O.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Eos a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
TEE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY'S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE FOR TWO
GUINEAS PER MONTH.-
With Immediate Possession and no Rent to pay.—Apply at the
Office of the Birkbeok Building Society, 29 & 30, South-
ampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF LAND FOR
FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH.
With Immediate Possession, either for Building or Gardening
purposes.—Apply at the Office of ihe Bikkbeck Freehold
Land Society, 29 & 80, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-
lane.
HOW TO INVEST YOUR MONEY WITH SAFETY.
Apply at the Office of the Birkbeck Bank, 29 and 30, South¬
ampton buildings, Chancery-lane. All sums under £50
repayable upon demand.
Current Accounts opened, and Interest allowed on the
minimum monthly balances. Cheque-books supplied. English
and Foreign Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
Advances made thereon.
Office hours from ten to four; except on Saturdays, when the
Bank closes at two o’clock. On Mondays the Bank is open
until nine o’clock in the evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry. Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Cottentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price 10s. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—88, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simbkin, Marshall & Co.
Will shortly be published,
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” Over forty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “Scientific Spiritual¬
ism,” “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power,” “Rules for the
Spirit-circle,” &c., &c., by S. C. Hall, Dr. W. Hitchman,
“ Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, &c. Will be found very useful among
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societies or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &o. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, pub¬
lished on the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue
de la Cathddrale, Lifege, Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
T> EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
Jl\j logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Society
Anonyme, 7, Rue de LUle, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
ARTS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of t
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
RE open to members and inquirers. News¬
papers and periodicals connected wi’h Spiritualism, from
all parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership and the loan of two books from the library;
10s. 6d. a year, one book from the library. Non-members can
subscribe 5s. for one quarter for the free use of the Reading-
room, but without the advantage of the Lending Library.
A Neance room can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on
Saturdays.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, March 1st, 1876, at their Rooms, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W. C.
Entrance in Woburn-street.
These meetings have been organised at the rrquest, and for
the benefit of Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting
friends and members, and of discussing matters of interest
connected with the Spiritualistic movement.
Music and other entertainments will be provided at each
meeting.
Hours from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets, to be obtained of tie resident secre¬
tary, Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, BLomsbury,
W.C.
East London spiritdal meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogmon's
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE REV. F. R. YOUNG, of Swindon
(honorary membei), will READ a PAPER on “Our
Duties as Spiritualists to Opponents, Inquirers, and Ourselves,”
at the weekly meeting of the Dalston Association, on Thurs¬
day evening next, the 24th instant, at eight o’clock. Visitors
will be admitted on application to the hon. secretary, at the
Association’s rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.;
Serviceat 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditiona
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consis'ent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments. &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, W.O.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the TWO
CLEVER SCEPTIC 8. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z., B.l.G.A.S.S.,and hisassutant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, 6$d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W C.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.C. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernard-,
villas. Upper Norwood.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 25, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.) "
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, LUiau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.t)., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.K.C.S., 29, Ersklne-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Harrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin II., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., DougUis House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-i'oad, iST.W.
AVasou, James, AVason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derbj' House, Helper.
Armfleld, AV. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.AV.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.AV.
Bassett, AV. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, llichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T\, The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St: Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street. Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, AV.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, It., Vicuna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, A'anbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E,
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, AV.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., I^ynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AV.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph; 6 Rye-terrace, Peekham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, AVilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, AV.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, AVest-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AV.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson, AVm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AV. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. AVarwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s
Park.; N.AV.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E,
Shepherd, J.,29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Suelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.'
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AV.
AVhite, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S AV., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.AV.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV.
AVithall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London,AV.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Aray, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gtddenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. AVittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh,26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Areh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,IJ.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mlttra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New Yrork,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M.C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate ben* Fratelli,Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Growell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
.U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Pails.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. K. Hallock, 46, Heretord-road, Bayswater, AV.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, VV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit: to aid students and inquirers in their researchesj by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver-
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., D^D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G-. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lament, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
he practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
In the Press.
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK AND TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Contains original articles written expressly for
the almanack by S. C. Hall, F.S.A., Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Calder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c., &c. Subjects—“Scientific Spiritualism,” “ Cui
Bono,'' “The Healing Power,” “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life,” 1 The Beneficent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,’
“Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
ART, MAGIC, MUNDANE, SUB-MUN-
DANE, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and pay¬
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending books to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author’sbehalf, does not feel jus ifled
in sending out such a rare «nd valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the book sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic, &c.,206, West 38th-
Btreet, New York, America.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
. MEDIUM,
Is at home dally, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Public Seances at Cl, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and
Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists
only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
ROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
ttate, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient's residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee, One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-
gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIAM EGLINGTON, the PHY-
SICAL MEDIUM, is at liberty to receive ENGAGE¬
MENTS for Siances at private houses. For terms, &c.,
address, Mr.W. EglinGton, St. James's House, Walthamstow.
CLAIRVOYANCE, and HEALING by SPIRIT
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-known Spirit-
Medium, on Thursday (other days by appointment only), from
two to four p.m. for Private Consultation, and four to five for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Belmont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven p.m., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive’s Healing Powers
are now well established, and testified to by many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within ten
miles, two guineas inclusive.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ”, healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUS¬
CULAR DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
 J. Coates, Principal.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister fur over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
tbe Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrameled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
It contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.O.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are give*
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtraj ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich, London: Spirit¬
ualist Office, 38, Great Russell-street.
J[ Jjl&jxttjtr tl xif ntfo pi|i^k tJ
Voj-UjVlE ElQHT. Kumber .EJiqht.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26th, 1876.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Gradually the too frequent untruthfulness connected
with the messages which accompany powerful and wonderful
physical manifestations is becoming generally known, not
the least striking incident being the recent case wherein the
spirit drawing, produced through Mr. Duguid’s mediumship,
“ Hafed, Prince of Persia Reviewing his Troops,” is proved
to be more or less a picture copied from Cassell's Family
Bible, of • Moses Viewing the Promised Land,” by a living
artist. Added to this we have the whole spiritual movement
in France damaged by Edouard Buguet, a powerful medium,
who has not the least hesitation in swearing to anything
which he finds to be convenient at the moment, and which
has resulted in an innocent man being sent to prison for one
year. In America we have the Holmes’s case, and the
testimony of Mr. Dale Owen, after carefully investigating
the fraud practised upon him, that although the Holmeses
were powerful mediums, not the slightest reliance could be
placed on anything they said, unless substantiated by some
third person. Again we have the testimony of Mr. Joy,
honorary secretary to the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, about the celebrated Eddy Brothers, that they are
the most unlimited liars he ever met in the whole course
of his life. Mr. Jencken again, who has had so much experi¬
ence in his own home, avers that the spirits who usually
produce physical manifestations, indulge habitually in the
most purposeless and unnecessary untruths. All this is
in accordance with what seems to be a law, that “ the
lower the spirit the greater is its control over common
matter,” although here and there there seem to be
strong exceptions wherein good messages, as well as
manifestations of almost a sacred nature, have been obtained
through physical mediumship. Take for example the case
where the departed wife of Mr. Livermore, the New York
banker, appeared to him in more than human beauty, and
wrote long messages to him in her own handwriting which
was found to agree exactly with that penned before her
bodily decease. It is foreign to the present purpose to
explain—as it seems to be possible to do—why good can
come now and then through physical mediumship. The fore¬
going instances have merely been cited to explain the
course which, for the good of the movement in general, we
intend to try to take in the future. Seeing that the power
connected with physical manifestations, and resulting in such
wonderful phenomena, is frequently untruthful in the highest
degree, and that the spirits in producing a desired result
would sometimes just as soon aid themselves by using the
organism of the medium under their control as not, we mean
in reporting stances to separate as much as possible those
manifestations which occur under test conditions, from those
which do not do so. Consequently, however well-known
and truthful a medium may be, we intend very often to
mention in reports that there were “no test conditions,”
when such was the case, thus throwing all the onus of what
takes place upon the spirits. What will be meant by “ test
conditions ” will be, that they ought to have been entirely
satisfactory to the greatest disbelievers present at the seance.
BIBLIOMANCY; OB, THE ANCIENT PRACTICE OF
DIVINING BY BOOKS.
The desire to look into the future—to lift the veil and
gaze upon the unknown ere it realizes itself in actual fact—
is a feeling common to humanity. Our savans tell us it
belongs only to the age of ignorance, and they foretell that
as civilisation advances, the belief in prophecy and prognos¬
tications will become a relic of the past. Be this as it may,
St. Paul tells us “ the angels ” were guilty of this same
folly, if folly it be, for he refers to things which he says
“ the angels desired to look into,” and these were certainly
things which were to come. From the earliest ages down to
the present day, men have sought by omens and visions, and
utterances, to know the future, as by this knowledge they
might be prepared to ward off danger, or be the more ready
to meet good. In its simplicity what is this more than
seeking to know the will of God concerning us ? Among
the ancients the “ gods ” were supposed to dwell in the
heights above the race of men, whence they dispensed their
blessings, and held communion with the favoured among
humanity. This is clearly manifest in the legends of
Orpheus, Thamyris, Musaeus, and others in the heroic age
of Greece. In the Persian Zend-Avesta, we are told how
Ormuzd had his seat on the higher plane, surrounded by a
concourse of pure spirits, who had advanced beyond all
turmoil and care. The same idea is taught in the Meru of
the Hindus, and in the Kaf of the Arabians. Those among
men who most held converse with the gods, were endowed
with higher gifts; and so it was that the sibyl gave forth
her prophetic utterances, and the poet his inspired song.
But after the sibyl and the poet had passed away, and their
bodies had been offered as a sacrifice to the gods, or burned on
the funeral pyre, the prophecy and the song were still revered
as sacred. The words bore a charm, a spell, which all might
feel, though they lived far from the oracular seat. Thus,
among the Greeks we read of the Sortes Homericance,
among the Romans of the Sortes Virgiliance, and among the
early Christians of the Sortes Biblicance. Though some
would fain have us believe that this species of divination had
its origin in the fact that those who held the sacerdotal offices,
whether priests or priestesses, were in the habit of delivering
their oracular answers in verse or rhyme, yet it is not pos¬
sible to ignore the fact of an inherent and insatiable desire
in humanity to know somewhat of the secrets of the future.
If in those days—
“ The sacred name
Of poet and of prophet was the same,”
here is at once the reason why the works of the most
famous should be chosen to obtain a solution of questions
in cases of anxious doubt and danger.
Homer’s Iliad and Virgil’s JEneid contain an abundant
variety of laconic utterances, and profound maxims, which
appeal to every phase of human life; hence their popu¬
larity as a means of divination among the Romans and
Greeks. The same may be said of the Old and
New Testament Scriptures, and of their popularity as
a means of divination among Jews and Christians. The
ancient mode of consulting these books was for the
querist, when the mind was most deeply impressed, and
the anxiety weighed most heavily, to prepare for, the con¬
sultation by purification and prayer. The hands which
were to be raised in supplication to the gods were to be
newly washed—cleansed by ablution; and often the water
was impregnated with salt on account of its cleansing and
preserving proprieties. Then in solemn prayer the aid of
the gods was invoked for counsel and direction in the time
of doubt and trial; the arms were outstretched, and the flat
and upturned palms were held towards those divine abodes
whence help was sought, and to which the eyes were im¬
ploringly directed. Thus prepared, the book was opened,
as it were at random, without contrivance or design on the
part of the supplicant, but certainly under the supposed
guidance of the gods; and upon whatever passage or sen¬
tence the eye first alighted, that passage was considered to
contain the divine intimation—the answer of the gods for
the guidance of the earnest supplicant.
INSTANCES AMONG THE ANCIENT GREEKS AND ROMANS.
Those who are acquainted with ancient history will bear
me out in my assertion that it was not the ignorant alone
86
THE SPIRITUALIS'T.
Feb. 25, 1876.
who practised this species of divination, but men of intel- j
lect, men of culture and high moral attainments. Socrates, I
during .his imprisonment, did not disdain to seek to know j
the will of the gods after this method. Brutus sought for
an omen in this way on the eve before the battle of Philippi.
Hadrian, also, and Severus, emperors of Rome, consulted j
the oracular utterances of the poets after this manner, and 1
acted accordingly.
INSTANCES AMONG CHRISTIAN EMPERORS.
Besides being practised among the so-called u heathen,”
Bibliomancywas exceedingly popular among the early Chris- j!
tians. That liberal Emperor, Andronicus, who, on his j-
accession to the Eastern throne of the Roman Empire, pro- j.i
hibited for a time those quarrelsome contests concerning j!
speculative points of theology in the Greek Church, made a jj
practice of consulting the Old and New Testaments oracu- 1i
larly. A conspiracy had been formed against the Emperor; jj
his nephew Constantine was convicted of being connected jj
with the plot, and was imprisoned. Not willing to take jj
his nephew’s life, he consulted the book of Psalms as his j
oracle, when his eye alighted upon the 14th verse of the j
68th Psalm—u When the Almighty scattered Kings bn it, j
it was white as snow in Salmon.” Gregory Nicephoras, j
the historian, says that the Emperor, “persuaded by this i
passage that, although men are ignorant of the secret j
springs of Providence, and act independently of them, the j
quarrels and commotions that break out in the kingdoms I
of the world form a part of the Divine decrees, therefore j
resolved thenceforth on a reconciliation with the rebellious I
prince.” j
Choroses, King of Persia, whom Mosheim called an “ in- j
human monarch,” having vented his rage in his persecu- j
tions of the early Christians, was met by the Emperor j
Heraclius in battle. Having obtained several victories, j
Heraclius was anxious where he might winter in safety, i
He caused solemn prayers to be offered, and fasting to be j
observed among the whole of his soldiery. He then, in the i
presence of his officers, and in a most devout and impressive j
manner, opened the book of Psalms and read a passage !
which at once induced him to winter in Albania.
Another method of seeking to know the Divine will from j
the sacred Scriptures, was by appointing a certain day to jj
attend church for that especial purpose, and on approaching j
while the Psalms were being chanted, the first words that j
fell upon the ear were considered as the omen of good j
or ill. „ j
Clovis, King of the Salii, and founder of the kingdom of I
the Franks in Gaul, being at war with Alaric, King of the jj
Visigoths, and having pitched his tents near Tours, sent men j
forward to consult the oracular Psalms that were being jj
chanted at the church. They returned with the words they jj
first heard, and which are found in the 17th verse of the 18th j
Psalm—“ He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from ij
them that hate me; for they were too strong for me.” No jj
sooner was this made known to the soldiery than the whole j
army rose with eager impetuosity, strong in the faith of the j
oracle, filling the air with shouts of coming victory. j
INSTANCES AMONG THE CHRISTIAN FATHERS. j|
How popular was this mode of consulting the sacred Scrip- j
tures among the early Christians, may be inferred from the j
fact that those high in the sacerdotal office, as well as those jjj
eminent in the field of history, not only sanctioned but j j
practised it themselves.
. St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo, was no doubt a believer jjj
in what is now called spirit-communion, just as John j j
Wesley was in his day. Deeply depressed, and filled with j j
grievous sorrow for his sins, on a certain day, Augustine j j
was pacing his garden to and fro in great mental torture; j j
and finding no rest, he threw himself down bn the ground, j j
his heart well-nigh bursting. Soon he heard the sound of a jj]
spirit-voice, and listening, he distinctly heard the words, jjj
“ Take the Book and read.” In earnest prayer, with jjj
trembling hand, he took up a copy of the Scriptures in j j
compliance with the strange injunction, and, after the oracular jjj
manner, opened upon the 13th and 14th verses of the 13th jjj
chapter of St. Paul’s Epistle to the Romans—“ Let us walk j j
honestly, as in the day : not in rioting and drunkenness, not jjj
in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying. jj|
But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not pro¬
vision for the flesh, to fulfil the lusts thereof.” This passage,
so applicable to his circumstances, decided his case, and
ultimately led him to devote himself without reserve to the
service of the church.
St. Anthony, the renowned Egyptian monk, before he
entered upon his ascetic life, and when he was yet undecided
in his course, is said to have entered the church just as the
21st verse of the 19th chapter of the Gospel of St. Matthew
was being read—“ Go thy way, sell all that thou hast, and
give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven;
and come and follow me.” Understanding the language in
its literal sense, and applying the oracular words as in¬
dicative of the Divine will towards himself, he adopted the
monastic life in the deserts of Egypt. Early becoming a
leader of the order, he induced the solitary monks to live in
company with each other, and prescribed fixed rules for the
regulation of their conduct.
A celebrated monk, surnamed Stylites, being brought by
his parents to the priest, in his infancy, to be baptized, they
desired the ecclesiastic to give the child a name; on his re¬
fusal, it was mutually agreed upon that the sacred Scriptures
should be consulted oracularly. After the preliminaries
were past, the priest opened the Book at the first chapter of
the Book of Daniel; so the child being baptized was named
Daniel.
Gregory, of Tours, whose historic labours gained for him
the name of “ the father of Gallic history,” was an especial
favourite of Queen Fredegonda. On one occasion he re¬
ceived private information that a secret conspiracy was
being formed against him, to disgrace him in the eyes of the
Queen and take away his life. He also heard that the
powerful Earl of Tours was the leader of the conspiracy. In
deep distress and agony of mind he retired to his chamber,
and poured out his soul in fervent prayer; then rising from
his knees, he opened the Book of Psalms as his oracle. The
first words upon which his eyes fell were in the 58 th verse
of the 78th Psalm—“ He led them on safely, so that they
feared not; but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.” He
felt this to be a happy omen of his safety, and “ great,” says
he, “ was the comfort I found,” and so it eventually proved.
The historian walked forth from his chamber with firm step,
light heart, and strong faith.
Not only in private, but also in public affairs was the
practice of Bibliomancy resorted to. The bishopric of
Orleans had become vacant; there were many candidates
for the vacant see, and amidst much dissension party feeling
had become very strong, and there seemed little hope of
reconciliation. It was finally decided to appeal to the Book
of Psalms as the oracle, whereby they might know the will
of God in regard to the election of their bishop. Each
candidate was caused to open the book and read his passage;
but each passage seemed inappropriate, with one solitary
exception. This candidate opening upon the 4th verse of
the 65th Psalm, read aloud, “ Blessed is the man whom
Thou chooses t and causest to approach unto Thee, that he
may dwell in thy courts.” On this man the lot fell, for the
appropriateness of the passage was accepted as indicative of
the Divine choice.
On one occasion, when the see of Rochester was vacant,
the same method was adopted in deciding the election.
Lanfranc, Archbishop of Canterbury, presided, and when
one of the candidates opened upon the 22nd verse of the
15th chapter of St. Luke’s Gospel, “ Bring forth the best
robe, and put it on him,” the election was at once decided
in his favour.
It is related of a young lady who was desired by her
parents to enter into a marriage engagement, to which she
was opposed, that she was induced by her spiritual advisers
to make an oracular consultation of the Scriptures,,and thus
leave the matter in the hands of God. To this all parties
agreed, and on opening the Bible she read the 37th verse of
the 10th chapter of the Gospel of St. Matthew, “ He that
loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me.”
Thus she was released by her parents, and thenceforth
devoted herself to a life of celibacy in connection with the
church, a life which St. Jerome encouraged with all the
ardour of his impetuous nature.
Feb. 25, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST. 87
Sufficient has now been said to prove that this Bibliomancy
was not a thing practised in secret, and by the ignorant
only, but openly, and amongst the learned. Like many
species of supposed divination, it became abused; hence decrees
were passed at councils prohibiting it. It is now scarcely
known, except as a thing of the past, and men laugh at it,
and call it a matter of hap-hazard and mere chance. Let
such, however, beware how they speak, and ask themselves
whether they are prepared fully to admit the doctrine of
chance, or even that there is such a thing as chance at all.
J. W. K.
[Books consulted:—Mosheim Eccl. Hist.; Life of St. Augustine] Scottish
Christian Herald, 1841; Glossary of Du CangeJ]
A PSALM OF TRIUMPH.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist?'
Sir,—In turning over some papers to-day, 1 came upon
this spirit message, given long ago, through the mediumship
of a lady whom her friends will know as L. M. It is so
different from most other messages that you may think it
worth publishing. It seems to be a sort of Psalm of
Triumph. M. A. (Oxon).
Feb. 19th, 1876.
The Lord is a God of Love, and affection shall never die.
Exult and be comforted, all ye whose hearts are with
those long buried in the grave. Let the eyes long used to
tears now sparkle with delight. Let years be forgotten, and
the warm glow of youth return. Praise ye the Lord, and
extol His goodness for ever. For behold He will give you
the desire of your hearts! and Love shall triumph over
Death.
Yet a very little while, and those who have departed
shall be seen to walk with their loved ones on earth.
Where is thy triumph, thou much-dreaded grave! And
where is thy despair, thou broken-hearted mourner ?
The believing soul shall no longer fear thee, 0 thou
gloomy sepulchre, for Jesus has descended into thy depths^
and disarmed thee of thy terrors.
The Lord shall not reign as an earthly king ! That were
poor indeed.
His reign shall be a spiritual dominion in the hearts and
souls of men.
There shall be neither rich nor poor, high nor low; for
the earth shall bring forth her fruits in abundance, and
famine, and indigence, and labour, and sorrow shall cease
to be.
Age shall lose its infirmities. There shall be no wrinkles
nor decrepitude ; neither shall the warm glow of feelings be
chilled into selfish apathy by advancing years.
The good and wise shall love men as their younger
brothers. And all shall be glad to honour worth and learn
of superior wisdom.
The redeemed of former ages shall revisit earth at plea¬
sure : yea, angels shall walk among men.
Death and pain shall no more be dreaded : and the hearts
which strong sympathy have linked together shall no more
be torn asunder.
And all mankind shall know themselves in the presence
of God ; for God shall enlighten the whole world.
Then shall love and friendship flower when all shall know
their God.
All men shall be kind and just, noble and true one to
another.
They shall quaff rich draughts of pleasure from the light
of their own beaming eyes.
And the earth shall smile, as conscious of man’s altered
state.
The unwholesome marshes shall bloom with choicest
flowers: there shall be no blight nor chilling frost to
hurt them: and the barren deserts shall be changed to
odorous groves and flowering meadows. And the woods
shall be vocal with music.
Then shall men take sweet counsel together ; their hearts
shall be pure and glowing as their eyes. They shall walk
the earth as friends, and together they shall climb the
heights of wisdom.
And sympathy shall be the bond of union.
I The holy name of love shall no more be profaned.
Religion, affection, love, and poetry shall no longer be
profaned.
Thus, and yet more abundantly, shall the Lord God
bless the earth, when men unite to serve Him with a
willing heart.
All evil things, pain and sorrow, shall then be remem¬
bered as dark clouds that have been, but are not. The
clouds that pass by are soon forgotten in the rays of the
cheering sun.
Alas ! for the soul-harrowing contrast of what a world is
now—and what it will be then!
Consider, 0 man! to what depths of misery and degrada¬
tion sin hath led thee !
God is ever good: but man, by his own rebellious will,
still works his proper woe.
Repent and be converted, ye sons of men, for the world is
grown old in iniquity.
Ye are fallen on the latter days, and judgment is near.
THE UTILITY OF SPIRITUALISM.-
BT PROFESSOR WILLIAM DENTON.
When the fact was first announced that communication
was established between the spirit-world and our own it was
met almost universally with jeers and denials. One party
said, “ It is impossible ! Between us and the world of the
spirits there lies a great gulf that none save direct messen¬
gers from God can cross, and all who pretend that communi¬
cation is opened between the spirit-world and our own, and
that messengers are coming to and fro, are only speaking
that which must be of necessity false.” Another party told
us that when the man died it was the end of him ; that we
put the man into the ground with his coffin, and that all talk
about communication with the dead, or concerning life after
death, was but the evidence of the wildest hallucination
which could be the offspring of the human mind. To-day
all this is greatly changed ; the most sceptical who are aware
of what is taking place around us, and who have given the
slightest heed to the matter, are now compelled to acknow¬
ledge that there is something in it, though they may not pre¬
tend to say what it is; while the great body of the people,
who do not wish to identify themselves with Spiritualism and
yet see the force of the evidence that we have received within
a few years, are now saying, “ Well, if it is true, what is the
use of it ?—of what benefit is it to mankind ? ”
All that I wish to know concerning anything is, is it true ?
| And if it be true I know that its practical experience will
| justify its existence. When Galileo went into his garden on
I the 8th day of January, 1610, and saw the three little stars
| in the vicinity of Jupiter with the first telescope through
| which the astronomer’s eye had looked, and subsequently
| discovered the four moons revolving around that planet,
I some people said, u Of what benefit is it for us to know that
| four little stars spin round a larger one?” At first this
I benefit was not observable, though in process of time it
I became demonstrated, and from the eclipses of these little
| stars that spin around Jupiter, the mariner was able to form
i his calculations, and sail with safety over the boundless deep
i to the port of his destination; and by this discovery the old
| Ptolemaic system of the universe was ground to atoms, and
| the new theory taught by Copernicus, whereby a rational
| and consistent view of the heavens and the earth was set
| forth, and established on an immovable foundation !
When the circulation of the blood was first discovered and
| announced by William Harvey, there were but few physio-
! logical believers in it, and it is said that no physician of the
| time above forty years of age ever did believe in it; but to-
| day, the very first thing which a physician does when
| summoned to the bedside of a suffering patient is to 'endea-
I vour through the pulse to ascertain the condition of that
| patient’s circulation.
So with Spiritualism ; it seemed a very trifling fact that
I raps were made in the presence of a humble family in
| Western New York, but behind the rap was the spirit that
I made it, and behind that the law by which it was done, and
! by which a thousand varying manifestations were to be made.
* Banner of Light, Boston, Jan. 1.
88
THE SElRlTtJALtST.
Eeb. 25, 1876.
The child then born has grown to a lusty manhood, and
already justifies his babyhood and our Mother Nature that
produced him. Spiritualism proves to be a fact out of which
proceed uses incalculable. I
First of all, Spiritualism gives us the true philosophy of I
life, the knowledge we have all longed so much to compass,
and without which it would seem we could never by any
possibility arrive at a satisfactory solution of the uses or
significance of human existence. What is the meaning of
these little, helpless children growing to increased stature
and powers day by day?' What is the meaning of these
men and women around me, the blood pulsing in their
veins, the hopes incident to existence burning in their
hearts? What is the meaning of this life, which to so
many seems a burden of recompenseless toil ? See the
trapper boy at the bottom of an English pit, pulling a
string when the waggons come through, and closing the trap
again when they have passed; sitting in that underground
dungeon ten hours a day, and six days in a week, and striv¬
ing by begging or stealing when outside to obtain bits of ;
candle with which to cheer his solitary gloom; what is the
meaning of life to him? By-and-by he becomes a toiling,
grimy hewer, with a candle in his hat, hewing away at the
black wall, breathing constantly the foul air, death the most
fearful staring him in the face, and then comes the veritable |:
death itself, and puts an extinguisher upon the man. Is I1
this all that there is for that poor wretch in- the coming j!
eternity? Then his existence does not pay; life to him is jj
a terrible failure. The light of spiritual philosophy illu- ji
mines these dungeons, and makes them shine like radiant jj
palaces, and places their inmates on the road to know- jj
ledge, to bliss, to perfect manhood ! The time is yet to N
come when in the light of recompensing development this |
man will not complain of the trouble met with along his ;
earthly road.
I have noticed among those who have no faith in the j
spirit’s future, a dissatisfaction with life and humanity that j
appears to be caused by the necessarily one-sided and im- |
perfect view of it obtained from the merely material stand- jj
point. Could the worm be made aware that at some future j(
time it would be a fly, and mount on silken wings, and flit \\
from flower to flower, sipping hone}7', it would enable that jj
worm to bear the ills of the present in anticipation of its j<
future, and give it a philosophy of worm-life quite impossible | j
without it. The persons who have no belief in a future ex- jj
istence feel frequently that life is a poor, mean affair, and ■(
hardly worth coming into the world for: while looking at jj
their fellows as mere creatures of a day, they feel and some- jj
times express a contempt for them that neither adds to their j(
o\vn well-being nor the happiness of others. Spiritualism jjj
gives to such, as to all, the true philosophy of life. It jjj
teaches that man here is in the chrysalis state; life, what is ijj
it to him compared to that great eternity which stretches be- jjj
fore every human soul ? It tells us what the love means j j
that throbs in young hearts and leads them to unite in j j
marriage, finding in each other for the time being all the jj
heaven that they desire. It reveals to us the meaning of jj
these children, crying, prattling, growing up into boys and iji
girls and around us. It translates into language that we jjj
can understand the smiles, the tears, the comforts, and the jjj
troubles of life—all so many threads out of which are woven i jj
the beautiful garment that the soul shall wear in the here- jjj
after. It solves the enigma which is presented in the low,
ignoble, and seemingly wasted lives of so many amid the
mass of humanity. Without the explanation it furnishes,
existence is apparently to most people without an aim; even
the wisest feel how little they can ever learn, how little they
can hope to accomplish. With souls that are as wide as
the celestial ocean in which the universes swim, life pours
out for us only a single drop ! Are we to be extinguished
for ever, and all these capabilities to die with us ? It is not
possible! Why all the wonders of that vast system of
preparation, stretching backward through the long gone ages,
the great eternity of the past, by which earth, was fitted for
our reception, if at our coming we move but transitory atoms
upon the great tide of being, and the very trees that we have
planted are to wave their garlanded branches over our great¬
grandchildren’s graves, while we have gone out into the
absolute nothingness out of which it is supposed we origi¬
nally sprung? Spiritualism gives us the meaning of it all,
and bathes the long-vanished past with beauty and glory,
as the commencement of that system of development which
has culminated in the splendours of to-day.
Wherefore came into existence this blazing globe, rushing
from the glowing bosom of the sun? Was it merely to
light and warm this moon that revolves around it and re¬
joices in its beams ? Ages pass, and rocks arise pile on pile
in grandeur to the skies. Was the planet born that granite
and quartz, slate and trap might be ? No, for life appears,
and the waters swarm ; sea-snails cling to the rocks that are
carpeted with sea-weeds, and trilobites like water-beetles
skim over the surface by myriads, crinoids expand their
living blossoms and make gay the sea-bed like a garden of
flowers. But even these fail to give us a key to the riddle
of creation. Not for the long scaled fishes flashing through
the water, or the birds with varied plumage, the lower mam¬
mals, the higher mammals, or even the low-browed men who
lorded it over the young world by brute strength, was this
stupendous scheme originated and developed. All these fail
to tell us why the earth endured for ages incalculable, and
life advanced from the monad to the man. Has man come
upon this grand stage of action but as a bubble, to be ex¬
ploded at the chill breath of dissolution ? Did this planet
cohere into an orb in the eternity of the past, and develop
all these varied forms of life through the ages only that man
might come forth to shine for an instant and then disappear
in the gulf of eternal darkness ? It is not possible that this
should be! When in the light of the grand truth which
Spiritualism reveals, we read the verity of the present and
the promise of the future, we behold man heir to a grand
destiny which the coming eternities shall work out for him ;
we become cognizant of the fact that the man lives after
death, that the earth came into existence that human souls
might be clothed in physical forms through whose disciplinary
processes they might take the first lessons of existence, and
lay the foundations for the great superstructure of spirit-life
and development. And in the light of this sublime fact we
learn that all our sorrows, disappointments, and trials, are
but so many steps toward that triumph of eternal un-
foldment in which the soul for ever goes marching on.
Spiritualism not only gives us the true philosophy of life ;
it gives us also the philosophy of death. What is death?
To the materialist it is the skeleton grim, the antagonist of
life, the end of all existence; it is the night that comes to
all, but without a star, or dawn of returning day. Death to
him reaps all, and the grave is the granary of humanity, and
holds its contents for ever! We are so constituted that we
never can be satisfied with this ; and the people who are so
unfortunately circumstanced mentally that they feel that they
must believe it, shrink from the fiite that their faith assigns
to them, for in it there is no philosophy of death or life.
Why this instinctive and unutterable longing for life, and
the all but universal belief in a future existence, if death is
the extinguisher of the soul ? In giving us the philosophy
of death, Spiritualism takes away the fear of death which
has hung over humanity like a thunder-cloud, ready to burst
and let destruction down. Paul writes of persons in his day,
who, through fear of death, had been all their lifetime sub¬
ject to bondage, and of this class hosts still remain. The
fear of death, and the horrors that succeed death, according
to the teachings of the popular theology, make cowards of
millions, who become the ready slaves of those who promise
them deliverance. Spiritualism comes and points to the
radiant morning even now gilding the heavens with its glory,
loretelling the magnificence of that broadening day which is
yet to dawn on every human soul!
Not long since I sat at the bedside of an old lady, a
Spiritualist; all was calm, all was radiant with hope ; no
fear of what should come, no regret with regard to the past;
she said to me: u I long to go; my body is now but a
burden to me, and I long to be free from it.” When I told
her that she had but a few hours to live, she said : (i Do not
deceive me, for it seems too good to be believed.” Then she
joyfully laid that worn-out body down, and went into the
supernal home of the spirit, and since then I have heard
from her often, and over and over again have I been assured
89
Feb. 25, 1876. f HE SPIRITUALIST.
that my friend is still alive and enjoying existence in that
radiant land into which her ripened soul has gone. Truly
the demonstration that death is to be loved, not feared, is a
blessing, not a curse to humanity—is one of the brightest
gems scintillating in the crown of Spiritualism’s utility!
But this is not all that Spiritualism has bestowed upon
the race. It is destroying the old ideas of hell and heaven
which have for so long exercised such a disastrous and de¬
pressing influence upon humanity. Wherever its doctrines
have been received, these old ideas have gone out to return
no more. Who are these that come to us from the spirit-
world ; who reveal to us their presence, whose voices we can
sometimes hear, whose hands we can sometimes grasp within
our own, whose messages, written under the most remarkable
and satisfactory circumstances, we have no trouble in re¬
cognising as executed in the well-known chirography of our
friends once with us denizens of mortal existence ? They
embrace every order of intelligence, every state of virtue or
its opposite; they are from among those whom orthodoxy
would call righteous and true, - inheritors of the king¬
dom,” and also from among those whom orthodoxy would
call sinners, and consign for ever and for ever to the
fellowship of devils in the pit which blazes with unquench¬
able fire!
We have by experience found them not to be miraculously
changed to angels on the one hand or to incarnate devils on
the other; we have found them to be our neighbours, our
friends; as they left the sphere of earth, so do they return,
bringing with them their marked personal characteristics,
opinions and methods of action; unchanged as to nature,
without added knowledge, save as their position in the spirit-
world has bestowed upon them better opportunities of ob¬
servation. From the first hour of my investigations to the
present time my experience has been this—that spirits are
the same there as here, only changed in so far as their de¬
velopment is acted on by the new conditions in which they
are placed. I have talked with Indians, and found that
while their changed sphere of life has not been without its
influence upon them, yet the aboriginal peculiarities cling to
them still. I have talked with men, the lowest of the low,
as far as humanity goes, and though they seemed to be in
the company of those higher than themselves, they still
manifested their old peculiarities, and their word—unless
direct evidence could be gained of the truth of their state¬
ments—was no more to be relied upon than the word of
similar men living among us from day to day. All this we
have learned, and now as we become more and more familiar
with the spiritual side of life, more and more familiar with
its characteristics and its demands, we find that in so doing
we are but gaining added knowledge of the highest philosophy
of nature as well.
Death never changes us; you will die to-night when
you lie down and lose yourself in sleep, as much as you
ever will; you seek repose for the weary frame, and rise in
the morning refreshed for the duties the day may bring;
and so you will lie down in death and waken in spirit-life,
the sam£ individual. There will be no devils to drag you
to an abyss of unutterable woe, on the one hand; no angels
to waft you to a heaven where no cloud will frown to mar
your sky, and no sin can come to you. Wrong-doing is, in
my opinion, just as much in existence in the spirit-world as
in this, but just as surely as the results of sin in the mortal
react upon the sinner, so they will come to the wrong-doer
in spirit-life, and your faith in Jesus, Mahomet, Buddha,
Vishnu, or any other deific name whereby men <£ hope to be
saved,” cannot possibly change the relation of your wrong¬
doing to the direct consequences which must naturally
follow in its train. If you do wrong anywhere in the scale
of life, you will suffer the result of that wrong, and the God
of the universe Himself cannot save you from it.
Here Spiritualism reveals the true incentive to right living,
teaches man self-respect, and gives him the foundation of a
rational and soul-satisfying religion, so much needed when
one portion of the race was rushing into a dead materialism
that reduced the spirit to a clod, and another portion was
reading humanity’s future in the light of a lurid hell, fed
by the fury of an angry God! Spiritualism in demon¬
strating this fact, therefore, makes a true life to be the
greatest necessity of the soul’s happiness, both here and
in whatever sphere of experience it may be called to enact
its part.
SUSPENDED ANIMATION.
There abounds in this country a peculiar species of wasp known as
the “ digger.” The male insect does no work, but the female does the
double duty of bearing offspring and providing for its wants. She
begins by boring a hole in a clay bank, in order to form a nest, and
then sets out on a hunt for the peculiar spider, or other insect, which
forms her natural prey. Pouncing upon her victim, she pricks it very
gently with her formidable sting. No sooner is the wound made than
the assailed insect falls paralysed ; even the -great tarantula succumbs
as quickly as the tiniest spider. Seizing the apparently inanimate
body, the digger flies off to her nest, therein deposits it, and, renewing
her hunt, captures victim after victim, until a sufficient supply is
secured to feed one cf her larvse to maturity. Then she deposits her
egg among the bodies, seals up the nest, sets to work on a new home
and a new hunt, and thus she continues until her stock of eggs is ex¬
hausted. In course of time the larvae, soft white maggots, appear;
but before they are ready to form cocoons several weeks must elapse,
during which time their nourishment must be fresh meat. It has
doubtless already been divined how’’ beautifully Nature provides, for
this want, for were the captured insects shut up in the nests dead, they
would speedily putrefy, and be unfit for their purpose. Kept alive,
however, though inert and senseless, they remain in natural condition
indefinitely, or until eaten by the maggot; and this is the effect of the
digger’s sting. The wasp administers a hypodermic injection of some¬
thing—some virus, perhaps, which paralyses the brain and its sensory
ganglise, while the spinal system remains awake. Nature suggests to
us a definite question to be put to her, through the chemist and physio¬
logist, namely—What substance, injected hypodermically into the
veins of an ox or sheep will reduce the animal to the state of the digger’s
prey ? What will produce complete anaesthesia, to last as long as we
choose, without causing death or injury ?
Dr. Grusselbake, Professor of Chemistry in the Univerity of Upsala,
Sweden, has succeeded, we are told by a foreign scientific contempo¬
rary, in so treating a little serpent, by cold, that the reptile, to all
appearances, becomes dead, and as stiff and as rigid as stone. By
rubbing it, however, with some stimulating substance, the reptile re¬
vives and becomes as lively as when captured over ten years ago. N ow,
this is not the effect of hibernation, for, as will be seen below, there is
an entire absence of irritability; nor yet is it identical with the tor¬
pidity produced by cold. It is a state difficult to explain, and is the
same as that of several species of fish, which, if completely congealed
die; but yet, when frozen stiff, possess sufficient vital action in the
circulatory organs to insure their revivification when thawed in warm
water. What the condition is remains to be seen ; and such an exami¬
nation would lead us to the thought of whether there is not a point at
which the higher animals may be brought to the same state. If there
is, then can it be obtained by the skilful use of chemical freezing mix¬
tures in lieu of ice ? Or, if an ox cannot thus be reduced, can he be
rendered actually torpid by cold ?—Scientific American.
Mrs. Everitt writes to say that the message on the habits of China¬
men mentioned in the last number of The Spiritualist was given through
trance mediumship, and not direct spirit writing.
Spiritualism in South London.—South London Association, 71,
Stamford-street, Blackfriars. On Sunday last, Mr. T. L. Henly
delivered a lecture on “Spiritualism as taught by Jesus and the
Prophets,” which was listened to with great attention. After the lecture
Mr. Redman gave some illustrations of the powers of mesmerism. On
Sunday evening next, Feb. 27th, Mrs. Howard (Miss Baker) will deliver
a trance address, the subject to be chosen by the audience. Doors
open at half-past six, proceedings to commence at seven.—J. Burton,
hon. sec.
Spiritualism at Croydon.—On Friday evening, the 18th, at a
meeting of the Debating Society at the Croydon Literary and Scientific
Institute, an address was given by Miss Ramsay on “ The Claims of
Spiritualism to Investigation.” Miss Ramsay, in an exceedingly clear
and lucid manner, placed the subject before the audience, giving the
results of her own experience at seances with Mrs. Guppy, Mrs. Hardy,
and others, referring also to the conclusions of the committee of the
Dialectical Society, and to the investigations of Mr. Crookes, and other
scientific inquirers. She did not attempt to expound any theory, but
maintained that a strong case was made out for fair and impartial in¬
vestigation. An animated debate followed, in which a number of
gentlemen took part. Various opinions were expressed :—That the
phenomena should be investigated by scientific men only, being far too
dangerous a subject for amateurs—That it was all jugglery and decep¬
tion—That there was no such thing as “ Spiritualism,” but, if there
were, that it was the work of evil spirits—What was the use of it if it
could not tell you the price of consols three months hence, or give cor¬
rect information about the death of your grandfather ?—That there
never had been any communication with any spirit after death—That
there were no phenomena to investigate. Mr. E. T. Bennett, as a
visitor, was allowed to give a few facts out of his own experience, and
to urge the importance of the subject. Miss Ramsay’s resolution that
the subject claimed investigation at the hands of scientific men, as well
as an amendment that, being “ unreasonable,” the subject was unworthy
of investigation, were put to the meeting, when the resolution was
carried by a good majority. The Rev. R. Suffield occupied the chair,
and the meeting was one of the largest the society has had. Debates
of this kind are valuable as introducing the subject into quarters where
but little spiritual literature finds its way.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 25, 1876.
DO
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday evening, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting
of the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-
square, London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided. There was a good attend¬
ance.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, said that he regretted that
Mr. Stokes was not present to give evidence about the voices he heard
when he discovered the Harriet Lane murder; his absence was due to
illness.
Mr. Thomas Bell was then electecj an ordinary member of the society.
THE HARRIET LANE MURDER AND THE CLAIRAUDIENCE OP STOKES.
The President said that the first business before them was to discuss
the paper read at the last meeting by their secretary, upon the voices
heard by Stokes. The question was, Were the voices objective or were
they subjective impressions ? Nobody, he thought, could read the
account without seeing that Stokes was an extremely imaginative man,
so the voices were more likely in this case to be subjective than
objective. The interesting part of the story hinged upon the statement
that he heard the voices before, instead of after he opened the parcel.
Could they accept this statement as a fact, or had his imagination con¬
jured up the idea afterwards ? Many persons heard words which were
the result of mental impressions, but Stokes said that he had not pre¬
viously the slightest inkling that the parcel contained anything unusual.
He (Serjeant Cox) did not think it was proved that the incident of the
voices had not been conjured up by Stokes afterwards, when thinking
over the whole matter. If he had heard them the moment he had said
he did, one would have thought that he would have mentioned it to
somebody within a few days after the discovery. He should like to
know if Stokes had told his wife or any other person in his own home
directly after the event. Before any argument could be founded upon
the occurrence they must make sure of the fact, and it must be remem¬
bered that the incident had not been made public at all until after the
trial. Supposing it to be a fact, then it was of interest from a psycho¬
logical point of view, and it would probably be classed as another
instance of supersensuous perception, of which there were many on
record. Stokes had said that he did not discover the contents of the
parcel by the smell, and there was nothing to convey an impression to
his mind that the contents were not of an ordinary nature. If he had
smelt something he might afterwards have fancied he heard a voice
saying “ Open it! Open it! ” which was just what he wished to do.
THE FRANKLIN EXPEDITION SEEN CLAIRVOYANTLY.
Captain Parker Snow said that he wished to show that impressions
could be conveyed to the mind of man by a method quite out of the
ordinary course of things, yet not supernatural, but possibly in conse¬
quence of the concentration of the mind upon a particular subject. For
many years he had been connected with that extraordinary mystery the
loss of the Arctic expedition under the command of Sir John Franklin.
He volunteered to go out with the search expedition of 1845, but did
not get an appointment; the Government informed him that the appli¬
cations were so numerous, that the ships could have been manned en¬
tirely by officers. In 1849 he was in New York, and one day he read a
report of the return of the search expedition under Sir John Ross, after
which he went to bed with thoughts about it in his mind. It was then
not known what part of the Arctic regions they had gone to.
That night he saw the whole of the expedition before him. He
did not know how or why, but there he saw the ships in one
particular locality. He also saw the men wandering about.
Without delay, he next day wrote out an account of what
he had seen, told where the ships were, and their relative
positions; also how the survivors of the expedition might be
saved. This was between 1849 and 1850, and on the 7th of January,
1850, he despatched from New York a full account of all that he had
seen in his vision. The narrative was given to Lady Franklin, who
sent it to the House of Commons, and the whole story was published
shortly afterwards in a Parliamentary Blue Book. Nobody then knew
even where the ships were to be found. In 1859, Sir Leopold McClin-
tock went to the locality which he had seen in his vision, and found
everything almost exactly as he had stated ; he had also exactly
described the relative position of the ships. The late Lady Franklin
had had several curious circumstances of this kind passing under her
notice. In 1850 he went out in command of her little vessel. The
night before the ship sailed Lady Franklin told him certain facts, which
he entered in his note-book. She told him to go to the locality she had
mentioned, and said that the daughter of a clergyman in Ireland had
pointed out to her that there they would be found. If any expedition
had gone there promptly, in consequence of these visions, the sufferers
might have been saved. He had nothing to guide him in coming to his
conclusions in any such way as that which had been suggested by the
president in the case of Alfred Stokes, in which instance he thought
the president’s explanation to be the right one. What he had seen in
the beginning of 1850 was proved to be true at the end of the year 1859.
He believed the study of psychology to be very useful. Once he had
to discover a semi-civilised savage in southern regions. His ship met
with rough gales, and he woke up one morning and suggested a round¬
about course, like going round the four sides of a quadrangle; he
further told his officers that by acting in this manner they would
succeed, and have favourable winds all the way, and so they did. He
found the very man he wanted. Imagination had nothing to do with
such facts as these.
Mr. Wedgwood wished to know how Captain Snow was able to denote
the latitude and longitude of the place at which he saw the ships in
his vision.
Captain Snow said that he had explained that in the Parliamentary
papers. He told them that it was close to the magnetic pole.
•Si
! i
1):
|P
m
I
III
i):
m
1
1
! ;
n
1
fij
' SI
mm
||
i>i
)
I) j
Hi
|) |
h)
i) :
j)
11
|f
!)j
15 j
p|
!)!
i)i
ml
0!
pf
Di
if
i
Di
Dl
:|)|
|l
hi
;l vi
i)i
i)|
hi
i) i
ii
PI
hi
|)i
hi
1)1
I
)
hi
)!
j)
hi
hi
hi
)
hi
m
j
h
h
)!
PI
I J !
)
h|
i) j
hi
hj
1)1
Ip
|i
n
i)
m
THE CLAIRAUDIENCE OF SIR CHARLES NAPIER.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that he had been reading an anecdote
narrated by Sir Charles Napier, telling how some voices which he could
not explain once helped him to capture one of the robber tribes in
India. He was in search of the tribe in one direction, when a voice in
his ear told him to go in another, and mentioned the name of the place
to which he was to go. Sir Charles thought it most improbable that
the voice could be right, indeed he was going in an entirely different
direction; but he obeyed the advice so mysteriously given, and found
the robbers at the place indicated. With all deference to Mr. Serjeant
Cox, he (Mr. Shorter) preferred to take the statement made by the man
Stokes, rather than to accept theories made by anybody else as to what
were the actual facts of the case. It was much safer to adopt his
statement of fact how it did happen, rather than to accept the theories
of anybody else as to how it might have happened.
MANIFESTATIONS BY THE SPIRIT DURING BODILY SLEEP.
Mr. Pike narrated that not long since he left Scotland on some emer¬
gency, and he telegraphed to his friends in London that he was on his
way home. He travelled by the North-Western railway, and had to
change trains at Camden Town. As he wished to get all the sleep he
possibly could, he instructed the guard to wake him up at that station.
He then went into one of those sleeps that it is almost painful to awaken
from, and suddenly he heard a strange noise, which made him return
quickly and painfully to the waking state. It was the guard of the
mail train waking him abruptly, for the train was behind time. The
first impression, after he had been thus suddenly aroused, was, that he
had been brought from his own home; he thought that he had just
been upon the landing, and had called to the servant to bring him some
hot water; he shouted twice, and the second time more emphatically
than the first. When he arrived at home afterwards, he discovered that
at the very time he had been suddenly awakened, and thought that he
had been calling for hot water, the servant had heard his voice asking
for it twice. She went upstairs, and came down—as described by the
children—“ as white as a ghost,” for there was nobody there. She told
him that she had heard him calling twice, and that the fright at dis¬
covering that he was not there had made her ill. He was of a very
susceptible and sensitive disposition; he had swooned three times in
his life, and had been to all appearance dead. On two of those occa¬
sions he was perfectly sensible : he saw his body on the floor, and while
he was being restored to life his sensations were perfectly horrible. On
the last occasion, when he thus swooned, his insensibility, he was
thankful to say, was total and complete.
Mr. Gordon asked what reply the Government had given to the
wonderful information furnished to it by Captain Snow.
Captain Snow replied that it gave no reply at all—(laughter)—but
that three days afterwards from three different parts of the world, the
same information that he had given himself was sent to the Government;
ships, however, were sent to plenty of other places, and for some years
the remains of the missing expedition were consequently not found.
A MURDER REVEALED IN A DREAM.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said—A remarkable case in which dreams played
an important part once came within my own experience, and the evidence
was all given on oath before a court of justice during a trial for murder.
I was present at the trial. A murder had been committed in Somerset¬
shire. A farmer had disappeared and was not to be found. Two
different men, living in different villages, some distance from where the
farmer had disappeared, both had a dream upon the same night, and
stated the particulars to the local magistrates. They said that they had
dreamed on that particular night, that the body was lying in a well in
the farmyard. No well was known to be there at all, so the two men
were laughed at. Some persons, however, went to the yard, and
although there was no appearance of a well, they at last found one under
some manure, and the body was in it; then, of course, the public began
to suspect the two men, but it afterwards turned out that the farmer had
been murdered by his two nephews with a club, and that afterwards
they had thrown his body down this disused well. Before they had the
dreams, the other two men knew nothing of there being a well in the
yard. I heard all this proved in a court of justice, and the two nephews
were hanged for the crime. It was a case of supersensuous perception.
Mr. Wedgwood remarked that the Red Barn murder had been dis¬
covered in the same way.
THE PRIMITIVE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE ARYANS.
Mr. G. M. Tagore, a Brahmin, said that the case of Joan of Arc was
the best historical example on record of visions and voices of an ab¬
normal kind. He then proceeded to read a paper on “ The Primitive
Psychology of the Aryans.” He said that Brahminism was preceded
by the Vedic and Aryan systems. The Vedic system consisted of ele¬
ment worship, and sacrifices in which the juice of the soma plant was
offered to the deities. It also included belief in good and evil spirits.
Missionaries believed that caste in India had its origin in the devil, but
he, as a scientific man, thought that it grew up under an organic Jaw.
From long observation he had discovered that law, and found that
wherever monotheistic ideas gained ground, caste gave way before them.
Castes consequently were breaking up in India.
Mr. Pike asked who the gipsies were.
Mr. Tagore said that they were wanderers from India, and that they
spoke Hindustani; in fact he was able to converse with them. They
belonged to the lower classes of India, and Brahmins, like himself,
thought it degrading to touch them. (Laughter.)
Professor Plumptre asked Mr. Tagore what influence he believed the
newly promulgated Brahmo-Somaj faith to have upon the abolition of
class distinctions.
Mr. Tagore, said lhat there were many monotheistic religions in
India, and that he had clearly discovered that the chief thing which
had a tendency to break up caste was the advance of monotheism.
Feb. 25, 1876.
THE SEIHITUALIST.
91
A gentleman asked whether the construction of railways had not done
more to break up caste than any religion.
Mr. Tagore said that railways had helped to break up caste, but the
Hindoos were a race not given to materialism, but to philosophy and to
thought, so that railways did not tend so much to break up caste as new
religious ideas. He had noticed that among the Mohammedans, wher¬
ever they had departed from the monotheistic teachings of the Koran,
there did caste spring up.
The proceedings then closed.
NOVEL AND CURIOUS MANIFESTATIONS.
A lady correspondent of the Chicago Times, from whose able letters
we have had occasion to make extracts in the past, cites in the issue of
that paper for December 30th several interesting points in the expe¬
rience of the sitters at the seances of Mr. Stewart, the subjoined items
being of the number :—
“ Several new phases of phenomena have recently occurred that may
be of interest to your readers. At a morning seance, a few days ago,
just after the medium was seated, and before she had passed into a
trance, or had closed the door, a white cloud appeared to rise up, filling
the cabinet and forming a vapoury white curtain from top to bottom of
the high door. While the medium and all present were expressing
astonishment, it gradually changed to the form of a beautiful young
lady, who walked out and fully identified herself to her father, who, by
the way, is one of the wealthiest and most influential men in Illinois, as
well as one of the mainstays in a:prominent church. The medium was
greatly delighted, as this was the first time she had ever witnessed material¬
ising, being always before in a trance during the phenomenon. Since
that occurrence, one evening, Belle, one of the active spirits of the band,
materialised in full view, and then floated up to the top of the
cabinet and gradually dematerialised from her feet up, until nothing was
visible but her head; and though in this condition she said in an audible,
soft voice: ‘ You see I am up here in the top of the cabinet.’
“ In my first correspondence from here, I mentioned a sister who came
always dressed precisely like myself, changing her costume from evening
to evening to match whatever I happened tS wear. She continues to do
so during my present visit, even changing her mode of wearing the hair
as I change, or the style of belt or collar, thus proving not only the
wonderful power of return, but the fact that she attends me during the
day and rea'ds my intentions. One evening, not long since, she told me
I might get on the platform. I did so, and the Indian spirit said: ‘ Turn
your back to your sister, squaw, and see which is much big.’ I did so,
and my sister came out and turned her back to mine, and proved to the
thirty people present that she is half a head taller than I am. These
same people witnessed after the seance that I am a head taller than
the medium. Thus did we demonstrate that it would be impossible for
the medium to personate my sister, had she been lost to sight during
this experiment, which she was not. ...
“Last evening (December 26th), Dr. Pence and his wife celebrated
their silver wedding. The many beautiful presents; the gay guests,
with songs and tableaux; the bountiful supper; the reading of appro¬
priate original poems; and the congratulations, witty and wise, would
make an interesting paragraph, but must give place to a brief descrip¬
tion of the family seance, held at eight o’clock, to receive the members
of the family who have passed to the spirit-home. The doctor’s first
wife and two children died when he was only twenty-eight years of age.
Of his second marriage there was only one child, Albert, who died early.
This one has come often to the seances, and identified himself in many
ways. He was the first to come last evening, and after the greetings
were over stood in the door and improvised an original poem. After he
bade us good-night, a tall, graceful young lady made her appearance,
and claimed to be the daughter ‘ Sarah.’ She was dressed in white,
with a wreath of white flowers upon her head, and a long white veil.
After she had withdrawn Minnie said: ‘ She wear pretty white flower
and much pretty veil because her father got a wedding.’ The next
apparition was Sylvester, the doctor’s eldest son. He had a moustache
and considerable beard upon his chin. After some remarks, the doctor
asked if he might get upon the platform and see which was the taller.
This was allowed, and at the moment of approach he seemed nearly as
tall as his father, but swayed and sank a little until he was nearly a
head shorter. Albert marked above his head on the wall, so that we
ascertained that he is a little taller than the father, and of course taller
than his brother. The last that appeared announced herself as ‘ Eliza¬
beth, the first wife.’ She seemed exceedingly amiable and earnest in her
greetings, and, retiring to the door, said, in low, impressive words, ‘ I
wish you all the happiness in the world on this anniversary of your
wedding. May you live happily together upon the earth for as many
more years. Good night.’ Minnie then graciously informed us from
the cabinet that ‘ Elizabeth squaw not jealous.’
“ This family seance disclosed still more clearly the genuineness of the
manifestations here, for the reason that Dr. Pence is a man of reading,
thought, and experience. No one ever doubts his integrity in anything.
Still every sensible person must admit that if these manifestations have
the least shadow of fraud upon them, he knows it. Yet upon a sacred
occasion he has a private seance, and is overcome with emotion, unable
to keep hidden the tears of joy that the tender tones and the loved
presence of dear ones call forth. The same is true of Mrs. Pence. No
one could witness once the intense love in her face and hear her mother-
heart in her voice cry out, 4 My boy! my darling boy! ’ without being
for ever convinced that it is a living truth to her. So it is with others,
who have noted the materialisations here for three years.”—Banner of
Light,
The book Art Magic is expected to be printed and on sale in America
in a fortnight’s time.
MR. MOODY’S SERMON ON HELL.
In a discourse on the above subject the Rev. J. Page Hopps of
Glasgow said:—
441 might have attempted to give a general and comprehensive view
j of Mr. Moody’s teaching, or I might have chosen some other topic, such
j as the possibility of instant conversion, or the reasonableness of salva¬
tion by faith or emotion, or the value of his favourite doctrine of
,j redemption through blood: but I prefer to consider this sermon of his
| on Hell for this reason mainly—that everything turns upon it. He
11 came here because of Hell, his work is to save people from Hell. To
i| use his own words in this very sermon (which, let me explain, appears
'! verbatim in an organ of the movement—Signs of Our Times)—‘If I
I believed there was no Hell,’ he said, 41 am sure I would be off to-
>1* morrow for America.’ He added, ‘You would not find me here, going
'! from town to town, spending day and night preaching and proclaiming
[I the Gospel, and urging men to escape the damnation of Hell. I would
>! go back to my own country, and take things easy.” That, then, is his
>| own account of it; so that the subject of Hell is the subject. He came
| ] here because of Hell; he preaches in order to save people from Hell;
II the whole thing is a piece of fireworks, ending in smoke, if his Hell is
> | not the reality he says it is. Another thing must be explained. In
}! spite of the disclaimer that has been now and then put forth, Mr. Moody
) | makes much of this subject of Hell. How could it be otherwise ? He
\ | comes on purpose to warn us, to inform us, to entreat us, to alarm us,
j and to save us; and, though it may be denied, I affirm it, after a close
) i watching of the whole movement, that Hell and the Devil have been
| freely used to produce the state of mind that made the reception of his
j message possible and easy.
j 44 The sermon before me is his last on the subject, but it is only one
| i of many; it is neither better nor worse than his others on the same
(j subject, though, if anything, it is milder, less brutal, and less indecent,
! than some of the others. I use those two words, ‘brutal’ and 4in-
11 decent,’ deliberately. More than once—once, to my knowledge, in Man-
s j Chester and once in London—he pictured good, 4 beautiful girls ’ in
) i Hell, not because they were wicked, but because, to use his favourite
(| phrase, they were ‘ out of Christ,’ or, in plain English, because they
(| could not agree with Mr. Moody, and accept what he told them about
; | salvation by blood. He pictured those girls as given over by Satan in
j | Hell to the lusts of his devils, with not even a policeman to hear or help
{! them. I call that both indecent and brutal; what else it is in reference
)i to God, Jesus, and the angels, I shall show presently. In this very
(| sermon he still harps on these girls in a way that suggests unpleasant
j | feelings about the speaker. He tells how he saw a ‘ lady ’ weeping at
)! the door of the inquiry-room, but a ‘ woman ’ came and 4 shoved ’
(| him away: these are his own words. The hopeful, emotional person
ji was a ‘ lady,’ the person who interposed was a 4 woman,’ and he says
) i she 4 shoved him away,’ telling him that the 4 lady ’ was her daughter,
(j and that she did not wish her 4 to be associated with Christians.’ A
) i most improbable story, and one that would probably resolve itself into a
(! thoughtful mother doing her best to save her child from hysterics, a
j; piece of good sense which, quite in the fashion of the Moodys and Tal-
)| mages of the day, was at once magnified into the falsehood of her say-
(! ing she did not wish her daughter to be associated with Christians—a
\i thing scarcely any woman would say. Mr. Moody, in telling that
j | story, cried out, 4 Is there such a mother here to-night ? ’ followed by,
(j 4 May God have mercy upon you! ’ and this, 4 It is a thousand times
) I better for your daughter and your children to be associated with Chris-
)| tians than it is to have them go down to death and be associated with
(j fiends as eternal ages go on.’ That is bad enough, but worse follows.
| i Mr. Moody is not content with the brutal and vulgar threat of eternal
ji fiends if the young lady is not allowed to go into hysterics, or, not to
(| jest about it, if she is not allowed to go into his inquiry-room and 4 find
): Christ; ’ but he goes on, in his too familiar style, to drag in again the
j! old indecent picture of this young lady with the libertines of Hell. He
\| seems to like it, and I must say that the frequent occurrence of this
jl particular picture suggests the most serious thoughts about his own
ji state of mind. He goes on to say, 4 If a young lady, going home to-
l \ night, should be spoken to by some drunken man, how alarmed she
I would be ; but did you ever think that in that lost world libertines and
! drunkards and murderers shall be your companions ? ’
44 Now I am going to use some plain language about that. First, I
say that it is a burning disgrace to the British people that such brutal
I thoughts and brutal and essentially vulgar language should be encou-
. i raged, in the name of religion; second, that it is provocative of mourn-
j | ful thoughts that the man who habitually indulges in such abominable
j i ideas and speeches should be the most popular evangelist of the day,
(I indorsed as such, not only by the mob, but by my lords and my ladies
j | in the capital itself. I say this reveals where we really are on the
j | subject of religion; it shows that, in regard to our thoughts of God and
\ j the future, we are only at the barbaric stage, and that a mighty revolu-
j I tion must be accomplished before the country generally, in matters per-
j| taining to religion, can be considered either rational or humane.’’—
(i Banner of Light.
|(j Spiritualism in Dresden.—A friend writes from Dresden : 44 There
j) i are numbers of Spirituahsts here, but no real, powerful medium. If
i j I Dr. Slade stays at Berlin on his way to St. Petersburg, we shall go
i j I there on purpose to see him, and I know many who would join to make
|)| it worth his while to stay.”
m The Birmingham Daily Mail says of one of-Mr. Morse’s trance ad-
ijj dresses: “Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and
| j I every eye riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half,
i i poured out a flood of eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a
i i! single moment.”
92
THE SPIRITtJAlIST.
Pub. 25, 1876.
IJoeirij.
SPIRIT POETRY.
The following piece of spirit poetry from A Lyric of the Golden Age, was
given through the trance mediumship of Mr. Thomas Lake Harris, the social
reformer, whose community in America was joined, some years since, by Mr.
Lawrence Oliphant:—
“ Poets and Priests are natural enemies;
Priests being types of ancient Thought grown blind,
But Poets emblems of Eternity’s
Perpetual inspiration, which the mind'
Feeds on and groweth eloquent and great,
Spurning vile slaveries of Church and State.
Poets count Priests as grave-stones, that are set
O’er ancient ages, cold as death, that yet
Records preserve of great deeds, thoughts by Heaven
In buried Eras to the nations given.
These are the sentinels that watch while bone
Cleaves slowly from its fellow, but are stone.
Poets count Priests as monuments of brass
That stand in churches moveless while the glass
Of time, reversed, is filled with golden years.
The Poet hopes; the( Priest despairs and fears.
The Poets dwell where mountains view the sun,
They glow where flames the orient horizon,
Each like a sun-sphered Angel, pouring forth
Truth’s morning utterance o’er the slumbering earth,
Their minds are mirrors where the crystal sea
Of thought reflects great heavens of truth to be.
Their minds are organs that no human hand
Can modulate; they thrill to music grand,
Swept solemnly by Heaven’s inspiring might,
They are iEolian harps that through the night
Thrill to the south wind’s kisses; infinite
In yearning, aspiration, joy and pain,
They seek, hope, love, and suffer not in vain.
’Twas Poetry in ages inly wise
Of eldest Time that pictured forth the skies.
Poets were God’s first prophets. 0 when God
Descended, and in ancient ages trod
Upon the earth, through Poetry came He—
And still where summer winds thrill through the tree,
Where summer waves are surging, where the bells
Of woodland flowers swing chiming in the dells,
WTiere sparry crystals twinkle in the mine,
Where stars move chanting through the crystalline,
Where human hearts grow beautiful above
All outward seeming in thy light, 0 Love,
God speaks, God sings as in great years gone by—
Heaven, Earth, Life, Nature, all is Poetry.
“What recks the Priest of this ? He breathes a curse
Where Poets hymn the pure melodious verse ;
Calls nature carnal, where the Poet sees
God shining sun-like o’er the forest trees;
Says earth is doomed and man by Heaven abhorred,
Where Poets, taught by reason and the Word,
Call earth God’s house, and man the Father’s child,
In spirit free and wise and sweet and mild,
Born to ascend, through noble works of love,
The sun, the moon, the spheral stars above,
To glow with light divine in mind and heart,
To work like God in truth, to dwell apart,
God-like, from all terrestial things, and win
Through love celestial homes with seraphim.
“ The mightiest Poets do not always write
In metre, nor are all who rhymes indite
Poets in fact. The Poet is the man
Whose dome-like faculties of mind o’er-span
Creation, taking in cause, means and end ;—
The man whose heart in living joy must blend
With the wide universe; the man whose life
Finds rest in harmony, but pain in strife;
Who loveth all things lovely, and who strives
To fill with love all human hearts and lives;
Who drinks full flowing goblets of sweet bliss
From Art’s pure fount; who sees a light divine
Where crowned Aurora bends the earth to kiss,
And where the evening glories mildly shine.
The Poet is the man whose bosom holds
A subtle sense that recombines and moulds
All thoughts to music ; who with insight keen
Pierces exterior Nature’s midnight dream,
Sees earth to be heaven’s portal, and discerns
Through Nature’s shape a fire from heaven that burns.
God holds his heart within His hollow hand ;
God’s voice divine, melodious, fragrant, bland,
Thrills through him till he needs must chant his lay,
Careless of human praise, singing his soul away.
“ Men never know God’s messengers ; ’tis well—
The thoughts that in their kindling bosoms dwell
Roll sealike through the world. They only know
That they are trumpets that God’s lips do blow ;
They only realise a mightier power
Above their own. Eve-like they wreathe Love’s bower.
The Poets’ hands weave garlands for mankind,
Thought-blossoms, deathless chaplets for the mind.
They come and go, as night comes, bearing stars
Dark in themselves, shining through dungeon bars.
They whisper, and their utterance grows more loud,
Until dead nations hear it through the shroud
Of ignorance and fear. They never die,
But rise loye-ammate to regions high,
Of deathless wonder. Few and dark their years ;
Mighty their soitows ; bitter cold their tears ;
Keener their anguish than a mother’s pain.
Freed from the earth, in emerald spheres they gain
A vernal youth, a spring-tide of heart-rest,
And unto God’s own heart in tenderest love are pressed.”
Haggard and pale as the wan winter night,
Moaning in naked woods, there came to me
A Spirit wailing inwardly. Upon
His brow still gleamed the shadow of a crown,
And the insignia of Empire clothed
In mockery his devastated form.
I asked his name, and he replied, “Remorse ;
I have no other name but this, Remorse.”
A bluish flame glimmered about his eyes,
And his thin bony hands like talons pierced
His side as if he clutched his tortured heart,
To still its beating, and he cried “ Remorse,
Remorse,” forever ; and one said to me,
“ This man was once a king, the Parc aux Cerfs
Preserves the memory of his bestial crimes.
He sowed the wind and reaps the whirlwind now.”
This was the king Rousseau in vision saw.
Alas ! he hath no kingdom. Once he fared
Deliciously; now sorrow fills his cup
With memory’s wormwood. Bitterly he weeps
Red meteoric tears from his wild eyes;
And shooting flames, dread thoughts of nameless crimes,
Blaze round his brow. The wandering spirit flies
Restless, self-tortured, through the evil waste
Of memory; ’tis his hell; nor shall he rest,
Nor pause, till pride and hate and avarice,
Which make him one wide waste of inward pain,
Have vanished, and in humbleness of soul,
Grown contrite, patient, and obedient,
He seeks to expiate by loving deeds
The vices of the life he lived below.”
It ceased, that voice. The eastern heaven grew bright,
Rousseau stood by me, and the sky, illumed
With rosy morning, dropped a golden rain
Upon the landscape. Every flower rejoiced,
And every petal whispered its delight.
Then spake the Spirit tenderly, “ ’Tis sweet,
Tis doubly sweet, to feel the spirit-life,
The inward essence and the element
Of this fair landscape, this ethereal air,
And these translucent skies that bend above ;
Here all things celebrate His deathless love
Who gave His thought expression, and so made
The universe. ’Tis sweet to feel that He
Dwells in His works, and through them all communes
With man His offspring.” After a brief pause,
He added, “ They alone are inly blest
Who have no will but His, who feed the poor,
Who clothe the naked and reclaim the lost.
0 when one sinner, like that wretched man,
Who wanders heart-accursed, and moans ‘ Remorse,
Remorse,’ grows penitent, ’tis sweet to fold
Our Angel arms around him and to feed
With love the hungry pulses of his heart;
To clothe him in white robes, to wreathe his brow
With joy-diffusing flowers; to soothe with songs,
Whose music breathes tranquillity, his breast.
Heaven bends in tenderest love o’er all who weep,
And grieve, and suffer. Souls most deeply stained,
Who will not own sweet Mercy’s gentle sway,
Cannot save through the discipline of pain,
Self-wrought, proportioned by their earthly crimes,
Be made receptive of the better life.”
As this he spoke, I turned to him and said,
“ Look up, and say what means that opened door
Blazing with spiritual light, that glows
In eastern skies above us ? ”—“ Hark,” he said ;
Sweet as the chorus of a universe
Of Angel worlds for a new planet bom,
There came a many-tided sea of song
Flooding the atmosphere, and thousand tongues
And thousand times ten thousand seemed to sing—
“ Joy, joy, great joy in Heaven around the throne,
Infinite joy when one, though dead in sins
And buried deep in trespasses, revives.
Angels shall lead him from his sepulchre,
And God shall wipe all tears from off his eyes.”
Rousseau with penetration deep discerned
That Spirit from afar, and to him turned,
Crying, “ 0 Spirit, I abjure thee by
The groans and sufferings of Humanity,
And by thy own remorse, thou who like Cain
Wanderest remembering many a brother slain,
Tell me what made thee vile ? Why didst thou grow
To be at last a deathless shape of woe ?
God made thee innocent.”
“ Dost thou not know,
Rome made me what I am,” the monarch cried,
“ False education—I was taught that pride
Was virtue, that to rule was given to me;
That I from Rome held all my royalty
That I to Rome owed fealty; that God,
Through Rome, placed in my hands the kingly rod j,
That despotism was my privilege.
Priest-cursed, with every passion uncontrolled,
Lustful of power, wine, women, fame, and gold
My soul grew sharp as the keen sabre’s edge.
Feb. 25, 1876.
93 1
THE SPIEITUALIST.
I was a sword held in Oppression’s hand.
None dared speak truth to me, I had no friends,
The tyrant hath but flatterers ; he bends
All wills to suit his purposes ; he smites
All men who tell him of the people’s rights.
The Court’s a hell where crime and vices reign,
Lo?e pleads, Truth warns, Religion grieves in vain.
Darker and deeper grows the Night of 111
Till the black wine of wrath the cup doth fill,
Till priests and barons stagger round the throne,
And kings carouse, while dying millions groan.
Then Revolution comes. I died before
Paris grew drunk and mad with noble gore.
Woe’s me, when from my festering corse I fled
What horrors broke upon my crownless head ;
Yet had I been a peasant’s child, sometimes
I think and know, this Tartarus of crimes
Had not engulfed me.” Here the spectre ceased ;
Inly I prayed that he might be released
Soon from his tortures. Still that piteous face
Haunts me. God grant that soon with sweet embrace
Thy love may fold him penitent, and lead
Him where Thy sheep round the Good Shepherd feed.
{ffortesponTience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers^
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OFFICES.
Sir,—Your paragraph under this heading shows that you have been
misinformed on some points.
1. Mr. Everitt made a great point of what he asserted to be a fact,
viz., that the dissatisfaction he referred to existed to a large extent
among members of the Association, and even among members of the
Council.
2. The notice given by Mr. Harrison was informal, and was only a
message sent by him to a committee which had unanimously voted itself
to have no business before it.
3. Mr. Everitt read more than four letters to the Council—six at
least, and spoke of having “ scores more at home.”
4. I do not think that the Council were generally of opinion that
most of these letters were written at Mr. Everitt’s previous soli¬
citation.
5. Mr. Everitt did not dispute the validity of the Council meeting;
he only pointed out to the committee that, owing to a slight technical
informality on the part of the Council, the committee had no business
before it. A. Joy.
Junior United Service Club, London, S.W.
A MATERIALISATION SEANCE.
Sir,—By the kind invitation of Mrs. Kimball I was present last
Friday evening, at a most interesting seance, with the principal features
of which, at least, the investigators of Spiritualistic phenomena should,
I think, be made acquainted. The circle consisted of seven persons
only, Mrs. Kimball being one of them. The mediums were Messrs.
Colman and Eglington, both in the younger years of existence. But
Mrs. Kimball’s mediumistic power was, no doubt, employed on the
occasion also. The sitters formed a semilune, without any table. Mr.
Eglington sat on a music stool, alone ; Mr. Colman joined hands among
the sitters. Mechanical music was much used during a good part of
the sSance. The first portion of the seance was in the dark. The
musical box was raised in the air over our heads and played there
repeatedly, and a curious accompaniment was maintained from time to
time by a spirit who played a small stringed box instrument, whilst the
large box was working, but interrupted the notes of the box every now
and then to introduce his own stringed notes. The personal phenomena
were very strong, and the touching of the partially materialised spirits
decided and frequent. All these Mr. Colman saw in clairvoyance, and
of some of them he had clairaudient impressions, so as to name them.
This was especially the case with spirits who claimed family relation¬
ship with myself, and whose presence I was able to recognise from
frequent anterior experiences of it. I knew intimately the truth of each
one of them, and of two of them Mr. Colman told me correctly the
relationship to myself. Each and all of them shook my hand strongly
and repeatedly; one of them, my own child, passed her hands over my
face more than once, and kissed my cheek once. Meantime, in the utter
darkness, the controlling spirit—who calls himself Joe—asked for paper,
and when light was renewed there was found on one sheet a pencil
drawing of Mary Queen of Scots, on another the head of Joe himself, and
a sketch of a lady seated with loose dress and flowing hair; whilst on a
third sheet was a long most delicately and minutely written message,
purporting to be a telegraphic one, and given as a test, the key to which
is held by Mr. Linton, one of the sitters ; this writing was exceedingly
small and in perfectly straight lines. The drawings were by a dear
friend of Mr. Colman, who was a promising artist, and passed away at
twenty-six years of age; his name was Alfred, but he signed the draw¬
ings as he used to do in earth life, “ Alfeo” ; there was great character
and taste in all of them. In the many instances when I have seen
spirit writing and drawing in the dark; I do not recollect to have seen any
so complete as these. And they were done in an exceedingly short time.
All were examined on the restoration of the gaslight, which was
reduced to about a bright twilight for the second portion of the seance.
Messrs. Colman and Eglington entered behind the curtain which divided
the front from the back drawing room. In ten minutes materialised
faces began to appear at the sides and centre of the curtain openings.
One was the head and face of a white-bearded and bald-headed old man
who was called the ? white general ”; another was a friend of Mr.
Glynes, one of the sitters ; another was Mary Stuart; another was my
own daughter, but with the face veiled. As the power increased the
forms did also, and the entire form of my child at length stood in the
central opening, but still with veiled face. Expressing a wish to see
her without the veil the controlling spirit assured me that I should, and
after a short time she stood so that I saw her from head to foot, clothed
in white muslin trimmed with lace. To my question, “ Are you my
child ? ” the beautiful head and face nodded two or three times playfully.
The vision was complete, and it corroborated what has been repeatedly
told me by clairvoyant mediums concerning her physical appearance.
Mary Stuart then appeared, her head covered with a gauze tastefully
arranged, and some kind of white flowers around it. To these succeeded
a profusion, so to speak, of faces, hands and arms, legs and bare feet;
sometimes three arms at one time displayed at the openings of the
curtain, sometimes three heads at one time. The arms waved about
outside the curtain, and reached as high as ten feet above the floor.
Mary Stuart beckoned us to draw near and examine her hand and arm,
and we found the formation most complete and lifelike. At one time, as
if to show their power, the head of the white general went down to the
floor, and upon it was placed first one and then another pretty bare foot.
Such a quantity and such a variety of materialisations I do not remember
to have seen before at one sitting. At length Joe announced that we
should behold what we had never seen before, and he bid us turn on the
three gas burners to their full, emphatically insisting on their being
“ full on.’’ This was done, the curtains opened in the middle, and the
entire forms of Mary Stuart and of my daughter stood in succession in
the full blaze of three gas burners (not more than three yards from
them), dressed in white muslin, and looking as if in earth life. A third
spirit, a male whose name I do not remember, did the same, and before
retiring he put his head forward, and we saw his lips move as he said
“ God bless you all.” Joe then gave some instructions to Mr. Linton
touching the telegraphic message that had been written, and the stance
came to an end. The medium power at work must have been enormous,
and the presence of three mediums, Mrs. Kimball, Mr. Colman, and Mr.
Eglington, no doubt accounted for it. It was exhibited the moment we
sat down and continued unbroken for two hours. I had never before
seen complete materialisations subjected to anything near the quantity
of light which fell upon the figures I have mentioned, at the latter end
of the seance, and I doubt if any other investigator has. The very
satisfactory character of this seance was, doubtless, due to two circum¬
stances—the great yet pleasant power of the mediums present, and the
perfectly harmonious mental condition of the few sitters: conditions
which are rarely, if ever, insisted on in Spiritualistic sittings, I regret to
be obliged to believe. I may add that not one of the materialised faces
had the smallest resemblance to any of the mediums present. When
we went behind the curtain after the seance Mr. Cohnan and Mr.
Eglington were found at different parts of the room in profound stupor,
from which it was some time before they recovered. J. M, G.
THE NEXT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE.
Sir,—I notice that a Brighton correspondent points out the many
attractive advantages of his own famous and fashionable town as the
meeting place of the November conference of the British National
Association of Spiritualists. As I have previously maintained in The
Spiritualist, the claims of Brighton for such a representative gathering
surpass the claims of most other towns out of London. This will
especially apply to the particular season of the year above-mentioned,
and to the class of society variously identified with the Association.
But why have only one conference during the year ? Could not the
Spiritualists imitate the Baptists and the Congregationalists, and hold
a spring conference in addition to the customary late autumnal as¬
sembly ? Or, seeing how much public prejudice is lessened against
unpopular questions by frequent corporate action and extensive news¬
paper publicity, why not venture alongside the orthodox religious
societies and have a yearly Spiritualistic “ May-meeting ” in London ?
The autumnal conference could then be held alternately in one of the
central provincial towns.
Moreover, Spiritualism, in some respects stands proudly alone in its
literary and high-class social connections, and is therefore replete with
all the intellectual resources of platform propaganda. Perhaps (if we
except the Church of England and the Unitarian communion) there
are more eminent authors, journalists, professional gentlemen, and
social grandees among Spiritualistic “ investigators ” than in any body,
or institution, religious or secular, of similar size in England. Con¬
sequently, each occasional conference would be sure to bring together
plenty of splendid literary talent, and all the culture of original elo¬
quence requisite for the explanation and defence of the most absorbing
branch of human inquiry. The British National Association of Spirit,
ualists commands so many influential and distinguished names, and its
humane and honest motives are, I think, so far above suspicion, and
its dispassionate query—Where are the Dead ? is so rational, earnest,
but scientifically cautious, that it must sooner or later compel wide¬
spread public respect. An indication of this flow of outside friendli¬
ness was seen in the attitude of the great morning newspapers during
last conference, when our thoughtful proceedings were so promptly
and widely reported.
Again, the National Association Conferences, however frequently
held, do good, in so far as they allow the healthy side-breeze of criti¬
cism to blow in upon settled opinions from a neutral standpoint. My
case was a fair example of this exhibition of the Association’s grand
impartiality. Being only a junior member of the Association, and also
—what I am at present—a determined investigator, rather than a full¬
blown believer, my paper, “ Spiritualism and its Critics,” was freely
admitted, notwithstanding that I felt conscience-bound to defend, as I
did, the trembling press of England against the growing influence and
94
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 25, 1876.
powerful scorn of the Spiritualists. Thus, these conferences illustrate
all shades of educated opinion, stimulate humble workers, and give all
classes of Spiritualist society the central privileges of interchanged
counsel. As your Brighton correspondent remarks, the press of that
town is unusually fair, outspoken, and enlightened. The Sussex Daily
News, under Mr. Infield, would be sure to give us fair play; but this
might also be expected if the conference is held in such a town as
Nottingham. J. T. Makkley.
3, Crawthorn-street, Peterborough.
A SPIRITUAL POST-OFFICE.
Sir,—-Instances abound of material objects being given to, and
carried off, by spirits at seances. At our Firman private seances here, this
has occurred several times ; twice very recently ; and the spirits when
materialised are generally found to wear these gifts as ornaments, such
as gold crosses, hearts, &c. We have had two different crosses imprinted
in flour, and have had them placed in our hands, and to our lips. Why
then could not a letter be carried away to be delivered to a spirit not
able to make its materialised presence felt, or seen, or heard ? With
that view, I asked John King and Glaucns if they would receive from
me a letter for my mother ?—“ Yes.” “ Can you deliver it ?”—‘‘ We’ll
try.” Having twice had good (and self-proving) communications from
her through the excellent clairaudient and writing medium mentioned
in my letter to you {Spiritualist, Feb. 18) I hoped possibly to receive an
answer in lhat way. I prepared a letter on the 17th. It was taken
from my hand by John King, and no more seen. The next day I asked
him what news of it? “ Have patience.” The following day (yester¬
day) a message was written to me by Glaucus to go to Madame It.,
and a person very dear to me would endeavour to communicate with
me. I went in the afternoon accordingly, and I did receive a reply,
apposite and characteristic, to my letter. The letter contained six
several points, and they were answered consecutively,
as I had numbered them 1, 2, 3, &c. The reply (written
rapidly by Madame It., from what she hears, after the name
being first given through the table by alphabet) began by giving a
good reason “ Why I did not answer your letter this morning.” She
said (besides something else) that she did not like “ these sorts of tests,
which in reality do not prove any more than those which we give of
our own accord of the reality of our manifestations.” Nevertheless
she did proceed to answer, by reason of her love and desire to do all
in her power for me.
One of the points involved the names of three of my brothers and
of a sister in the spirit life. I designated them by description, such as
“ my eldest brother,” “the dear one who died by railway accident,” &c.
The.names of all four were correctly given. The third point was to
ask whether she could not give me some message for A. (a sister still
living in the flesh, but in a far distant country, and as a nun, and a very
devout one, much j imbued with the spirit of the “ ecstatic ” Saint
Theresa, to whose order she belongs), the reply was, “she is often with
me, and near you.” “ Do you mean that under the laws of the human
spirit, hers, in the flesh, can sometimes go to you in the spirit life,
and also to me still incarnate?” “ Yes.”
Perhaps this may be in sleep. I may mention in passing, that when
in 1860 I wrote to announce to this sister our mother’s death, she re¬
plied, “ I knew it, because at about that time she appeared to her poor
nun in her cell.”
After the completion of her answers to all the points’of my letter, the
spirit added, “Your old servant, your old spirit who is so sympathetic ”
—(Do you mean Glaucus ? Yes)—“ desires to say the following to
you j ” and then followed a communication from Glaucus, beginning,
“Friend, &c. a message which it is not pertinent to the present object
to repeat.
There was also another incident of a striking and beautiful character,
involving a further conclusive test of identity, on which I regret that I
was bidden to be silent for a short time. At a later day I may add it
as a lacuna to be filled up here.
This morning John King asked me, “Well, how were you satisfied
yesterday about your letter ? ” “I was delighted, and am very grate¬
ful.” . “Wasn’t it a good test? Well, now, whenever you want to
send her any more letters, I’ll be a faithful postman.”
What do you think of this new spiritual post office ? Here was a
letter taken away by John King at Firman’s, safely conveyed, delivered,
and fully answered two days after, through another writing medium.
Why cannot others do the same ?
I intend to try the further experiment whether, by enclosing a blank
sheet with a pencil in the same envelope, I can receive back a direct
written reply in English brought back to me as the letter was con¬
veyed ; for I was told at the outset that there was great difficulty, be¬
cause my mother and the medium (French) had no language in com¬
mon, so that the former had to appeal to the assistance of another
spirit (French) to translate and transmit to the latter the words she
writes, only as she hears them spoken to her, she being a clairaudiant.
I have asked John King if that could be done ? Two raps from him,
and also from Glaucus, answered that they would “ try.”
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, Nov. 19.
P.S., 21st.—Katey has now come to us twice, brought by her father,
and shown, well materialised, both in the cabinet and outside, by John’s
light, held up by him close to her face. She has also spoken, low, but
quite distinctly. She several times called me “ stupid,” but explained
that it was onlyT a way of hers, as a little affectionate pleasantry.
“Ask Willy,” she said, “he’ll tell ymu,” meaning Harrison. John
afterwards said the same. She sent her “ love to Willy,” and to Mr.
Crookes, of which commissions I hereby discharge myself. Her head-
gear and face were those of Mr. Crookes’ photograph, as given in Epes
Sargent’s Proof Positive. Katey’s hand also wrote her name on a blank
sheet of paper lying on the table, her father’s light being held over it
so as to make the operation perfectly visible. Firman has now been
levitated three times at M. de Veh’s, each time in the presence of about
a dozen persons, all highly respectable, and some of distinguished
position. On two of the occasions he was entranced, on the other he
was not so, and Was very much frightened. His feet and legs were
felt by the company dangling above their heads in the air. He
touched the ceiling with his head. He was each time let down upon
the table, once with something of a fall, owing to the chain of hands
having been broken, in the excitement of the company. He remained
up three minutes by the watch. J. L. O’S.
PRIVATE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—The “ accident ” alluded to in Mr. Oxley’s letter explained it¬
self in a remarkable manner the same evening after the departure of my
guests, for on closely inspecting the inside of the mould I detected the
impression of the cross on the top of the hand ! On the following morn¬
ing I took a cast, and a beautiful sight it was when the paraffin
melted away and the left hand was obtained, exactly corresponding
with the previous right hand; there was also the cross well defined,
showing even the engraved letters on it. The detachment of it, however,
had evidently caused some slight disturbance. At the top of the cross
is a small ring to receive the ribbon; a ring can only be cast by two
equal halves of a mould, their edges joining at the extreme diameter of
the model. Consequently the paraffin filling and surrounding the ring
caused the accident in the act of drawing it out of its prison. This de¬
monstrates how natural laws extend their sway into the realms of
spiritual phenomena.
Mr. Oxley was correct in describing the mould as of one unbroken
piece; but this refers to the outside, the cast showing plainly a slit on
the side, where the greater diameter of the hand would interfere with
the passage through the narrower channel of the wrist. The process
seems, therefore, a natural withdrawal, not dematerialisation, of the
hand; this would be effected, I believe, by a living hand, but most cer¬
tainly rigid artificial hands could not be liberated without cracking the
mould in this case. You may imagine my intense pleasure on reading
Mr. Sullivan’s letter in your last, where Count Bullet’s cross, given to
a spirit, reappears in the same manner as in my seances.
Christian Reimers.
2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester, Feb. 20th, 1876.
THE YEARNINGS FOR IMMORTALITY OF ROBERT BURNS.
Sir,—The works of Bums are so often brought before the public to
excite the risible faculty of humanity, that it may be of use to show
that the poet was a deep sharer in that universal longing for unending
existence which, I believe, every human being has, until vice has
ripened into rottenness of body and mind. If you think the following
extracts in support of this idea will be of use to those who read the
pages of your useful journal, perhaps you will kindly give them a place
therein. T. It.
“ Poor Fergusson 1 If there be a life beyond the grave, which I
trust there is; and if there be a good God presiding over all nature, which
I am sure there is; thou art now enjoying existence in a glorious world,
where worth of the heart alone is distinction in the man; where riches,
deprived of all their pleasure-purchasing powers, return to their native
sordid matter; where titles and honours are the disregarded reveries of
an idle dream; and where that heavy virtue, which is the negative
consequence of steady dulness, and those thoughtless, though often
destructive follies, which are the unavoidable aberrations of frail
human nature, will be thrown into equal oblivion as if they had
never been! ”
“ Would I could write you a letter of comfort! I would sit down to
it with as much pleasure as I would to write an epic poem of my own
composition that should equal the Iliad. Religion, my dear friend, is
the true comfort! A strong persuasion in a future state of existence;
a proposition so obviously probable that, setting aside revelation, every
nation and people, so far as investigation has reached, for at least four
thousand years, have, in some mode or other, firmly believed it. In
vain would we reason and pretend to doubt it. I have done so to a
very daring pitch; but when I reflected that I was opposing my most
ardent wishes, and the most darling hopes of all good men, and flying
in the face of all human belief, in all ages, I was shocked at my own
conduct.”
“ Can it be possible that when I resign this frail, this feverish being,
I shall still find myself in conscious existence ? When the last gasp of
agony has announced that I am no more to those that knew me, and
the few who loved me; and when the cold, stiffened, unconscious,
ghastly corse is resigned into the earth, to be the prey of unsightly
reptiles, and to become in time a trodden clod, shall I yet be warm in
life, seeing and seen, enjoying and enjoyed ? Ye venerable sages, and
holy flamens, is there probability in your conjectures, truth in your
stories, of another world beyond death ? or are they all alike, baseless
visions and fabricated fables ? If there is another life it must be on! y
for the just, the benevolent, the amiable, and the humane. What a
flattering idea, then, is a world to come! Would to God I as firmly
believed it as I ardently wish it! There should I meet an aged parent,
now at rest from many buffetings of an evil world, against which he so
long and bravely struggled. . . . There should I, with speechless
agony of rapture, again recognise my lost, my ever dear Mary ! whose
bosom was fraught with truth, honour, constancy, and love.
“ My Mary, departed shade!
Where is thy place of heavenly rest ?
Seest thou thy lover lowly laid ?
Hear’st thou the groans that rend his breast ?”
******
Feb. 25, 1876.
“ Jesus Christ, thou amiablest of characters! I trust thou art no
impostor, and that thy revelation of blissful scenes of existence beyond
death and the grave is not one of the many impositions which, time
after time, have been palmed on credulous mankind. I trust that in
thee ‘ shall all the families of the earth be blessed,’ by being yet con¬
nected together in a better world, where every tie that bound heart to
heart in this state of existence shall be, far beyond our present con¬
ceptions, more endearing.”
PLAGIARISMS. IN SPIRIT MESSAGES.
Sir,—Will you please correct an error in this week’s issue about the
habits of Chinamen. The message was not obtained by direct spirit
writing, but given orally; neither was it a verbatim copy of the Times,
as you will find by referring to the Medium. M. A. Everitt.
Holders Hill, Hendon.
[The paragraphs were practically the same, as will be seen if we republish
them side by side.—Ed.]
iPtobinctal jBtctos.
LIVERPOOL.
THE MISSION OF SPIRITUALISM.
On the 8th inst., Mr. Harper, of Birmingham, occupied the platform
of the Liverpool Psychological Society, Dr. Hitchman in the chair. In
the afternoon and evening there were large and attentive audiences.
Mr. Harper delivered two lectures on “ The Mission of Spiritualism,”
and in the course of the afternoon’s lecture he said :—At a convocation,
held at Liege, Belgium, of eminent students from the leading
scholastic institutions of Europe—gentlemen whose investigations
entered deeply into all the questions of the hour, scientific and philosophic
—they one and all arrived at the conclusion that the modern estimate or
conception of G-od and the soul had its origin in th§ baneful ignorance
of mankind, and that man’s advancement in a scientific direction, had
dispelled to a large extent such ideas. He added that in proportion to
the discoveries of science, God had retired from the universe of things
and become a mere figure of speech, soul a mere figment of a
diseased brain, and the hope of a life hereafter a myth, a fraud, and a
sham, having its existence in the vanity of our nature, caused by our
desire to be something higher than the other organisations around us.
The conclusions of these gentlemen could not be treated lightly, seeing
that they were likely to be the teachers and writers of the coming century,
and consequently would, in a greater or less degree, influence thought dur¬
ing that period. In our own country, Mr. Bradlaugh, the great apostle of
materialism, in a recent course of lectures delivered in Birmingham,
treated the conception of God in the Bible with disdain. What has the
“ Mission of Spiritualism ” to say on this point ? It has to say as
Philip said to the eunuch, “ Understandest thou what thou readest ?”
It has to say to mankind as they pore over the pages of nature, study¬
ing chapter after chapter until they come to the last revelation—man
himself—that beauty, harmony and design, even the gloom of night,
reveal unto us the glittering orbs that deck the midnight heavens, as
jewels beautifying the crown of nature, and that thus are the wonders
of creation unfolded to us by the very darkness that has surrounded
them. It teaches or declares, added Mr. Harper, that there is an in¬
telligence or personal Deity who controls the various worlds in space ;
that underneath Him are beings who have conquered and overcome
matter, superintending and governing the numerous kingdoms in crea¬
tion, as well as the illimitable host of unseen spirits'who act and react
upon mankind. Who is the designer of the universe ? The “ Mission
of Spiritualism” is to acknowledge God as the great first and final
cause of all things, that mighty moving power that manifests itself to
our consciousness in this life and in the next. Its mission is to declare
death is no more. The old saying, “ That all a man hath will he give
for life,” still indicates the prominent feeling of mankind on this sub¬
ject ; but Spiritualism has changed the dread monster of darkness into
an angel of light; it assures us there is no death; it brings back our
loved ones to us, we have seen and handled them ; they have told us
they are happy, but happy or not they live, and enable us to say with
the tent-maker of Tarsus,
0 death, where is thy sting ?
0 grave, where is thy victory ?
The “ Mission of Spiritualism ” unfolds to us something of the life
that is to be; it is the great evaporator of myths, canonical or theo¬
logical ; death is destroyed, hell examined, and heaven revealed. It
gives us truly a rationalistic account of that life, a life of earnest, active
enjoyment in the free and full exercise of all the gifts of our nature as
they are unfolded and progressed. It brings our Heaven to earth and
our Hell too, for to be bad is to be miserable, to be good is to be happy.
Therefore, our Heaven and Hell are as we make them in time or eternity.
The “ Mission of Spiritualism ” teaches us how to grow ourselves into
salvation, into the full and noble status of a harmonic man, and to give
us in this life foretastes of that life in the bright beyond. It explodes that
blasphemy on the goodness and wisdom of God, the horrible doctrine
of “ total depravity,” it teaches us that man is not a finished being, that
instead of having fallen, he is not yet fully risen; that life here is
but one stage in his progressive existence to be more fully unfolded in
the life to come. It teaches that no man is so vile that he has not in
him some of the angel that indicates his divine origin ; nay, more, it
brings to us special specifics of love and sympathy and obedience to
laws of life and being—to eradicate diseases, mental, moral and physical.
The “ Mission of Spiritualism ” re-writes our history for us. Here the
lecturer referred to the unreliability of history, for the history of Eng¬
land, written for the Protestant was a far different thing to that written
for the catholic. Mrs. Everitt sitting on the coast could take up a
pebble and thereby re-read the history of the past in connection with
our island. Mrs. William Denton’s powers were then graphically de¬
lineated, and clairvoyance entered into, as throwing light on this sub¬
ject'.
BISHOP AUCKLAND.
spiritualism: its use and abuse.
On Sunday evening last a lecture on the above subject was delivered
in the Town Hall, Bishop Auckland, by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London,
trance medium. The meeting, which was under the auspices of the
local Spiritualist Society, was presided over by Mr. J. P. Soutter, who
was accompanied on the platform by Messrs. Frank Everitt, T. Fawcett,
and Hull. A hymn was sung, and then the chairman read a chapter
from the Epistle to the Corinthians. Another hymn was sung, during
which Mr. Morse passed into a trance condition.
He prefaced his address with an eloquent prayer to the Deity. He
said that in this age of inquiry, it was only natural that the nature of
modern Spiritualism should be a question for investigation. The power
of man’s reason was capable of dealing with every question, and the
one great question of man’s spiritual nature was as much entitled to our
consideration as any other. They could well conceive the advanced
thought of the present day running contrary to the older and accepted
beliefs. In all ages there had been sceptics of some sort with regard to
the spiritual nature of man, and it had been left to spiritual phenomena
to demonstrate beyond the shadow of a doubt that man was a spiritual
being, and that the inhabitants of the other world can hold communion
with this. Directly the thinker took ship on the sea of inquiry he en¬
countered opposition, and it might seem that he would never reach his
journey’s end; after he had gone through speculation, doubt, and
sceptical theories, he was obliged to come to the solid conclusion that if
the theories of Spiritualism were not true, certainly the facts upon which
they were based could not be gainsaid. The natural consequence was
that his old ideas underwent a severe criticism, and very often at the
end he found himself dispossessed of all he had in the shape of mental
property concerning his spiritual nature. But if he started on the race
anew knowing but that one fact, it was of more priceless value than all
the other theories he had been obliged to discard. His whole nature
became revolutionised, and he demanded fact and evidence for every
position he took up. He got out of the reign of faith and entered
into that of law, and came into the morn of truth and knowledge
founded upon evidence. Still the pilgrimage from scepticism to Spirit¬
ualism was hazardous and dangerous. He had only accepted the
facts which proved to him man’s immortality, and his
power to communicate with the inhabitants of earth when he left it.
In this the untrained mind fell into many erroneous conclusions, such
as that the spirits were on a higher plane of life, and that their state¬
ments must be accepted. There were plenty of dogmatic people in this
world who would make everybody think as they did, and after death
they did not change their mental nature; if such persons, when they
passed from earth, found they could influence our life and character,
they were very likely from their different positions to endeavour to do
so. Whenever and wherever a spirit came with the greatest pretensions
saying, “You must” or “You shall,” in fact dogmatised—to receive
such would be laying the foundation of that which would sap the foun¬
dation of the whole movement. The only permissible dogmatism rested
upon' the laws of God which governed the universe—there was no
appeal from that court. Supposing people came to us grand and
glorious in their spiritual and intellectual development, and we were to
accept their statements entirely, and in full, never submitting them to
reasonable analysis, it would be an abuse of the wide prerogative of
human reason. When they made such statements, candour and honesty
commanded that they should be placed aside for future consideration.
Again, it was said by some that the spirits were of a curious character,
delighting in darkness, and not descending to show themselves in day¬
light. By such people it was said that such conditions were exacted
that it was utterly impossible to investigate the phenomena, and arrive
at any conclusion. There seemed to be a prima facie case that the charge
was true, but perhaps after all, there was really very little blame in the
matter. There might be a great press of necessity, and if, under certain
conditions, certain classes of phenomena best transpired, it was far
better to give the conditions whenever those particular phenomena
were required. But when they came to the question of utility, as to
whether all this objective phenomena were necessary to prove and main¬
tain the facts of Spiritualism, they were perhaps inclined to take other
ground, and lay down as truth that there could always be obtained in
the light a sufficiency of phenomena to demonstrate the operation of an
extra natural power, and intervention of intelligence as directed to that
power. Therefore, although not finding fault with dark circles, they
would be inclined to say, on the question of utility, that these circles
were not really of so much practical necessity as was generally con¬
sidered. He should be inclined to say they were abused when carried
on solely in the search after the wonderful and marvellous. The facts
were produced by immortal beings, who, seeing the desire to witness the
marvellous, ministered to the perverted taste, and tambourine playing
in the air, and other antics which had no good results, went on. He
asked that the dark circle should be used legitimately, that by it they
might become acquainted with the occult laws governing the physical
universe, known and understood by the ancients and by certain sections
of earth’s inhabitants to-day. This would invest Spiritualism with
dignity, and make dark circles eminently useful in regard to the unfold-
ment of truth. Spiritualism could be abused when it manifested itself
substantially in any special direction. A class of persons who had strong
materialistic tendencies, and who had been disbelievers in a future exist¬
ence, when they investigated the facts of Spiritualism, finding them true,
and revealing human immortality, reasoned thus : “ The church from
THE SPIRITUALIST. 95
96
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 25, 1876.
which we have dissociated preached it, and therefore its preaching must
he true.” When they said there must be truth in all preaching, alas, they
were abusing Spiritualism. The facts of Spiritualism, instead of sup¬
porting creeds and dogmas, ran directly contrary to them. Mediumship
was a central fact of spiritual philosophy, and if that faculty were
abused, the nature of the individual became dwarfed. Passing to the
use of Spiritualism, he said that the spiritual nature of mankind was
only one-half of the circle, the other being the material, and unless
they brought both into harmony, the condition of society would be
everlastingly out of joint. Spiritualism said the spirits had not lost
their interest in the material progress of the race they once formed a
portion of. The Church said man’s states of being were separate and
distinct, but Spiritualism demonstrated the fallacy of that, and proved
that nature was one continuous, harmonious whole, and of necessity
included the natural and spiritual.
Two or three questions were put to the lecturer from gentlemen in
the audience, one being, “ Does Spiritualism induce in its greatest
devotees a more religious life ? ” The questioner said that so far as he
had heard it was not the case, and he could not see any use in it unless
it made men better mentally, morally, and religiously.—In reply, Mr.
Morse said he would not answer that Spiritualism did produce that
effect, but that it was capable of doing so, and it was not so much the
fault of the system as of the persons if it did not. (Hear, hear.) It
was claimed that orthodoxy was calculated to make men better in every
respect, but they all knew that all Christians were not good men, and
they might say with equal truth that the fault might be with Christian
professors, and not the system.—The Auckland Chronicle.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
A Test Seance.—Another strict test seance for materialisation took
place on Thursday evening, the 17th inst., at the Freemason’s Old Hall,
when Miss Fairlamb was securely fastened around the wrists and waist
to an arm-chair, with some stout soft hempen rope, the knots bound
round with wire, and sufficient cord left to extend from the cabinet to
the circle, which consisted of about thirty persons, some of whom were
new members, and most active in the fastening of the medium. A spirit,
who gave the name of Minnie, came out into the circle, sat on a vacant
chair, laid her hands on those of some of the sitters, and, while standing
up outside the cabinet, took paper and pencil, and wrote several lines
on it. At the termination of the seance, it is almost unnecessary to
add, that the fastenings had not been tampered with in any way.—
J. J. Rhodes,
THE DESPOTISM OF PREJUDICE.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
When M. Aksakof, in his admirable speech at the reception soiree
given to him in London by. the National Association of Spiritualists,
alluded to the despotism of prejudice, as retarding progress on the Con¬
tinent and in England, I noticed the marked impression his words
produced on the listeners. Since then the correctness and importance
of his remark I have found strikingly verified by carefully observing
the enormous resistance offered to facts, the truth of which might easily
be ascertained by moderate investigation. This is soon discovered by
every unbiassed investigator, whether Spiritualist or not. Sad ex¬
perience teaches us that modern education, while training a man for
practical life, does not teach the mind to get individual strength in
facing any new problem. This defect in education shows itself at
present in a most deplorable form. Human intellects seem to move on,
like cattle, in herds, and if any mortal who feels a sting of individuality,
separates from his companions, the dog is set upon him; many who, by
a little accidental push, get thus astray, bleat at once, and feel com¬
fortable again only when their carcases travel with those of their
neighbours—the happy consciousness of cattle-fellowship then returns.
They certainly will not get us poor detached Spiritualists back again.
Prejudicev a beginning of logical deductions by their end, ought to be
but a brief interruption to the natural course of thinking; but it is
now-a-days a monstrous wall, which seems to stem the tide for a long
period, perhaps for generations. The Germans have a capital expres¬
sion for this kind of stoppage in the process of reasoning. They say :
“ Er hat ein Brett vor’m Kopf ” (he has a plank before his head). The
saying is most likely derived from a dodge, used by some farmers to
prevent cattle, oxen mostly, from running, by a piece of plank sus¬
pended in front of their horns. The poor things may think what they
like, but must not go any further.
I have a story to relate to my fellow-workers, which may bring about
a better understanding of the critical, difficult position of Spiritualists,
and serve to illustrate M. Aksakof’s remarks:—In order to assist in
removing trivial errors in regard to Spiritualism, I presented to the
library of bur German Club “ Schiller- Yerein,” a copy of The Report
of the Dialectical Society. This book has been rejected. Now, to show
the import of this extraordinary fact, I may briefly give the history of
this Manchester club. When the centenary of our great Schiller was cele¬
brated all over Germany, a young and talented German here brought
all my countrymen together, and a remarkably splendid amateur per¬
formance of Wallenstein inspired the whole German population with
unbounded enthusiasm. Many hidden talents were revealed on this
occasion, so the suggestion of forming an association met an eager
response. A literary club was the immediate result, supported by
liberal donations, but upon condition that no alcoholic liquors should be
allowed. When, however, the rough winter months set in, this privation
was deemed rather severe; some malcontents expressed doubts as to
the wisdom of these restrictions, thinking that tea, coffee, lemonade,
sugar-water and gruel would not do for a man, however spiritual his
ambitions might be. Then they knocked mildly at the door of liberty
with the “ beer question,” which, after hot battling, was carried. Some
jh of the old supporters, alarmed at the idea that, with “ Gambrinus on a
||j beer-tub,’’ the tone of the club would degenerate, made the sign of the
j cross and parted. The tub, however, was quietly placed in its proper
| corner only, and the club flourishes without the slightest cause for
iu complaint about excesses. Full scope for recreation is given in all
[n directions; there are frequent and splendid theatrical performances,
| i also music and excellent lectures, added to this we have a first-rate
Iji library. The subject of Spiritualism being mooted occasionally, I
j) found to my displeasure the dense cloud of ignorance (now and then
!(i thickened by arrogant German journalists) covering almost the whole
](I ground. The explanation “by conjuring” is a disgrace to common
|)j sense in the face of the scientific tests which have been made; but it
i /1 soon informed me of my mistake in expecting to find here individuals
iu detached from the large flock. Therefore I handed them the book, to
m throw a little more light on the subject I confess, the rejection of this
| / i book, in its main point a statement of dry facts, appeared to me like
ju persons in want of light, turning the gas down before their very noses.
| I Mr. Blackburn has been more lucky in placing The Spiritualist on the
jij table of the Reform Club. Its size admits of reading it under shelter
i j of a big local paper, and should another curious inquirer or suspicious
i | spy pass by with searching eyes, the happy reader of the “forbidden
ju fruit” simply turns another leaf of the big paper, thus hiding it, and
I S the road is clear again. The rejection of the Report of the Dialectical
I Society must not be taken as an expression of the spirit of our German
club, for every book passes through the personal revision of the literary
department, in this instance represented by scientifie men and others of
the mercantile persuasion. I waited and waited for the result of
j this “insight” (einsicht) and doubted at last whether they would
| ever arrive at any einsicht. I was told at last, however,
| that it had been rejected. Although accustomed to most extra¬
ordinary manifestations, I was taken aback here, and must
repeat that this is not to be accepted as an act of the club, but of the
j literary department, and the applause for it will most likely have to be
shared by these gentlemen among themselves. If, as I feel inclined to
believe, they did not take the trouble to read the report, but remained
satisfied with their personal feeling against an unpopular subject, it
| would thus be a glaring piece of “ unconscious prejudicial cerebration”
| and its only value in history, a refreshing smile for the future reader
who may notice this amusing point in the development of the human
intellect.
In another, rather Bohemian Club, the effect of fashionable prejudice
takes a less objectionable form, for the arguments are not handled in a
serious manner, and evaporate, like puffs of smoke, into nothingness,
i) i except leaving perhaps some smell.
The author of Where are the Dead ? and my humble self are the
!poor martyrs in this otherwise comfortable smoking-room, where philo¬
sophical thoughts and volumes of smoke run a race, to determine which
| shall dissolve soonest into the winds. If there is any truth in reincar¬
nation, then the old notion of the soul getting into an animal’s body, and
vice versa, may find favour again, and in cases where the process has not
been cleanlily performed, brief developments of clairvoyance may then
explain the frequent expressions: “ You donkey ! you old goose ! ’’ &c.
I Another bugbear of prejudice which influences people to an undue
degree, is the awe produced by the title “Doctor.” It originates with Dr.
j |; Faustus most likely, who was partner with the devil, and of course did
||| devilish magical tricks. The degree of doctorship, obtained from the
j (i proper quarter, must command respect no doubt, as it would in the worst
m case tell for good memory and industry; but the respect paid by the
j|j multitude to this title of dignity is simply absurd. That the title is
i j: obtainable in some places in Germany for money is well known, and in
j|j one case a dentist got it for a £5 note, and out of gratitude, after great
j / j success in the business, he went on horseback to the professor’s with
j(j another £5, and the humorous request to make his horse a doctor too !
tjj The professor, however, didn’t take the joke in the same strain, but re¬
in plied, “ Won’t do, friend. We don’t sell the title to horses, only to
j(j asses!” It is strange indeed to see old traditions so persistently fol-
j-j'l lowed, and nothing puts to test a man’s capacity for reasoning indivi-
i /1 dually more severely than a new movement. Here the multitude gathers
j | round the pastor, there round the doctor, there round the newspaper,
|>| and there round the barber—nobody dares to think for himself.
j j j If the power of prejudice would act only on those who have had no
m personal experience in a new fact, there would be not much harm done,
j)j but to see how it sweeps away newly-gained conviction is discouraging
n indeed. I have had some proof of this. In a recent number of the
(j “ Gartenlaube ” (a Leipzic paper popular in Germany), there was a vio-
|j lent attack on Spiritualism and its dupes, which was pointed out to me
(! by a gentleman who had otherwise obtained enough previous information
v to draw a line between slander and truth, and who was much shaken
)\ thereby.
/i An Entertainment.—On Thursday evening next, March 2nd, there
(i will be an entertainment, consisting of music, singing, and recitations,
): at 103, Mile-end-road, in aid of the work on behalf of Spiritualism now
)\ being carried on by Mr. Cogman in East London. Miss Chandos will
(j preside, and the proceedings will begin at seven o’clock.
)j Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—Mr. Morse has been delivering
11 trance addresses in Choppington, Jarrow, Bishop Auckland, and South
(j Shields during the past few weeks. He has been well received, and
>j the lectures have been well attended. On Sunday next, February 27th,
)j he will deliver an address in the Trongate Hall, Trongate, Glasgow, at
(j seven p.m., remaining in Glasgow during the week, and, probably,
;j speaking one night at Barrhead. On Sunday, March 5th, he will
(I deliver two trance addresses in the Freemasons’ Hall, Newgate-street,
f| Newcastle, afternoon at three o’clock, evening at seven o’clock. Liver-
[i pool to follow. He will speak in London at the end of March. Letters
I may be addressed to him, this week—” Care of J. Bowman, Esq., 85,
■ Jamaica-street, Glasgow.”
Feb. 25, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF 11 THE SPIRITUALIST”
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTEBS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by tbe Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.;
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.: moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, "by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic) Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ailcestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed hi
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spim Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-8upematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by WilUam Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made'.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrnmpery
character, hut these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Tala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6a.; cheap edition,
7s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. Gs
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd. "
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,
12s
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. Gs.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s.Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by WilUam Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Gd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Itev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. Gs. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. Gs.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strknge
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc, 3s. 'Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Gs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. Gs.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits hy the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 4s,.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,”
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. VoL I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ■ ,
The Thinker. ,, V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of.Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .
s. d.
15 A
7 6
7 6
7 8
7 6
7 O
7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—X well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms!(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 8
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . ... . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 8
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 0
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, bytJames Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A. . . .30
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . .. 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . .10
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , . .. 1 0
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is,
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas B.
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Gd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Nan-ative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM,1 by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Gd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 25, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H.' HARRISON.
Committee.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Oalder, Esq.
Alexander .Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
f.e.s. :
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
Martin B. Smiih, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelma yon Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. J.encken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.
Tel.E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, JEsq., M.D.
Mrs. Honywood.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin E. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the
editor. This , journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,
caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no
means .self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
its existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that; in order the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily, relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect admass of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
Spiritualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that for a special
purpose, appeared in the pages of the Spiritualist for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless,_ greatly
relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that
it is not to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is
hoped, may to some extent, relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring to contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin B. Smith ,Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
List of Subscbiptions to February 18th, 1876.
Mr. Martin B. Smith   £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn......;    50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze       50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne  £ ....;  40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder       20 0 0
A Friend    .....;   .'.  20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod       20 0 0
Comte de Bullet    20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe .....*   15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart      10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D  10 0 0
Prince Paskievitsch *     677
Prince Gagarin  6 7 7
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein      6 0 0
F. S. A. ;..... 5 5 0
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.B.S   |  5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D     6 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe      5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey    5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald   5 0 0
A Friend     5 0 0
Mr;A.'Tod.   ...{Second Subscription) 5 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. C. O. Massey.:;.....   „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. A. Calder   „ „ 5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  „ „ 5 0 0
F.S. A.   „ ,,. 5 0 0
Signor Damiani      3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood   2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald  2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S    2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery        2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D.   2 2 0
“ Ennesfallen ” ...;<    2 2 0
Three Friends...      2 2 0
Mr. A. L. Henderson    ...'.   2 2 0
Col. Olcott        2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory       2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent   2 0 0
Dr. Baikie ..          2 0 0
Miss Douglas  .....I      2 0 0
M. H. C   ;      2 0 0
M. Gustave de Yeh   ;  2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland        2 0 0
Miss Anna Blackwell        200
Mr. Keningale Cook    1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King .    110
Mr. F. A. Binney     110
Mr. J. Coates        110
Mrs. Maltby         110
Mrs. Kislingbury     110
Mr. B. W. Pycock      110
Mr. B. Coleman ;.....      110
Mr. R. Fitton       110
Major Menars      110
Mr. John Lamont    110
Mr. Archibald Lamont     110
Mr. T. B. Griffin         110
Mr. J. B. Stones' 4..;        110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese        110
Bev. W. Whitear   1 1.0
Miss Whitear     1 1 0
Mr. C. E. Williams     110
Mr. A. Glendinning       110
Mr. H. Withall      110
Captain James  110
Mr. F. W. Percival   110
Mr. Christian Beimers  110
Mr. Thos. Hinde...    110
Mr. Thos. Grant      110
Mrs. Geo. Neville    110
Mr. G. R. Tapp        110
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson    110
Mrs. Woodforde     110
Mr. T. M. Simkiss     :....   110
A Friend         1 10
A Friend, per Miss Williamson....  110
Mr. W. P. Adshead     110
Mr. D. H. Wilson     .'.  110
Mrs. M.T. Wood    110
Mr. John Scott      1 1 0
Mr. C.T. Hook   110
Mr. W. White            1 1 0
Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy  1 1 0
Dr. W. Hitchman      110
Mr. E. D. Rogers       1 0 0
Mr. R. Corbet   10 0
M. B        10 0
Baroness von Vay  1 0 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan     1 0 0
Miss E. D. Ponder     10 0
A Subscriber       10 0
Amicus   ."  100
Mr. A. C. Swinton    10 0
M.A. (Oxon.)     10 0
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes  10 0
Mr. William Oxley      10 0
Mr. Geo. Dee      0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett     0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands   0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin       0 10 6
Mrs. Aaron Franklin   0 10- 6
Mr. J. S. Crisp         0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald       0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock      0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blyton    0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts      0 10 0
J. F. C  0 10 0
Mr. E, Storey       0 10 6
Mr. J. Deane     0 10 6
C. S. S. ;.il        0 10 0
A. C    0 10 0
A. B. C.           0 8 6
Mr. Algernon Joy    0 5 0
Miss Kislingbury        0 5 0
“Peterboro”     0 5 0
A. C. W    0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald   0 5 0
A Clergyman    0 5 0
A Reader of The Spiritualist     0 5 0
Mr. Wth. Robinson      0 5 0
Mr. E. Pearce ,   .'.  0 5 0
“Mercy"            0 5 0
An Old Friend     i  050
Miss Mackay      0 5 0
The Misses Young..    0 5 0
V.  0 5 0
A Well-wisher       0 5 0
Mr. Young       0 5 0
Mr. James Kilbraith....     0 5 0
Small sums      0 5 3
GuaranteeJfund. % ;  200 0 0
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Angel in the tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
,, 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
, 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ . 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
Wiyi an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, and not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Russell-street, London, W.O. 
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A, The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character Of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
HP HE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE H OMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.’’—Athenxum. “ It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have over read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.’’—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
TPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
JL PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.’’ A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
‘•THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES’’ and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
’RtM&jvn.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.,
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.O.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oi
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-»- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the N aturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgeustein (Wies¬
baden) ; The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent) (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ’’: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. iH. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedlKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, '4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “The Manager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C.”
[December, 1875.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London; Simpkin, Marshall and Oo.'
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fulhvood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew abo.ve-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
