AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[BEGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 168.—(Voii. YII.—No. 20.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 12,1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Shall we Import a Fakir 1    229
The 1875 Conference of SpiritualistsHealing Mediumship—Medium-
ship, its Nature and Varieties — Inspirational Mediumship—
Healing Mediumship—Physical Mediumship—Mrs. Mary Mar-
• shall’s Mediumship—A Table Floating under Test Conditions—
Direct Spirit Writing—Materialisation Mediumship—Conditions
Favouring the Evolution of Manifestations  229
Sunday Services at the Cleveland Hall:—The Aims and Influence of
Spiritualism—The Physical Aspects of the Future Life  233
A Strange Story. By William H. Harrison   235
British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council
—New Members—Finance Committee—Return of Mr. Joy to
England—Manifestations through Dr. Monck’s Mediumship—
Provincial Work of the Association—Shall the Association under¬
take Publishing?    ...     235
Reliable Information about the Mediumship of the Eddy Brothers and
Sister:—A Witch and a Prince—Spirit Identity—Jealousy of the
Eddy Brothers about the Mediumship of their Sister—Test Mani¬
festations through Mrs. Huntoon's Mediumship   ... 237
Winter Meetings of the British National Association of Spiritualists... 239
Spiritualism in Dalston     239
The Investigation of Spiritualism at St. Petersburg University  239
Spiritualism in South Africa       239
Psychological Experiences during a Recent Tour in Europe:—
Eisenach and Martin Luther—The Madonna di San Sisto—The
“WhiteLady”          ... 24®
Correspondence:—Allan Kardec’s Career     240
Answers to Correspondents     240
Paragraphs :—Spiritualism and the German Press, 234; Sunday Ser¬
vices at the Cavendish Rooms, 239; Brixton Psychological Society 240
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving.information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman's Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books suppliod.
urchases and Sales of British. Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds Stocks
Shares, &cM effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’cloek. -
A Pamphlet oentaining full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOB, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Baa a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
w
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 8s.
London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by george
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commences in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commenoo
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-row E O.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
THE “ STURM.BERG” BLANCHETTE writes answers
to your thoughts, whether by Spirit Agency or hot. All should
judge for themselves. Of most fancy dealers, or from J. Stormont
Constitution-hill, Birmingham, 4s. 4d., 2s. 2d., and Is. 9d., post free.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A /Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.1
N.B.—The Subscription for the Current Year, 1875, will not be
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
SUNDAY EVENING LECTURES.
MR. J. J. MORSE, TRANCE SPEAKER,
WILL DELIVER
A SERIES OF INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES,
At Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, near Portland-road Station, W., on
the following Sunday evenings:—November 7th, 14th, 21st, and 28th.
Reserved seats, 2s. and Is. Tickets for the course, 6s. Body of the
hall, free.
Service to commence at 7 o’clock. Doors open at 6.30.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
WINTER MEETINGS.
During the winter months meetings will be held at the rooms of the
Association for reading and discussing papers on Spiritualism and kindred
topics. They will commence on Monday, November 22nd, at eight o’clock,
and be held fortnightly till Christmas, and afterwards as may be found
convenient. Friends having papers to communicate are requested to send
them at an early date to the secretary, at 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a large
amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers, will be shortly
issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, for sale at public meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication as this, the
current spiritual newspapers not always containing the most suitable or
most condensed information for persons to whom the subject of Spirit¬
ualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed, and kept on
sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at spiritual meetings throughout
the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
valuable channel for advertisements *
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and others. The
charge for advertisements will be One Shilling for the first twenty-five
words, and Sixpence for every additional twenty-five words, or portion
thereof. Displayed advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as the publica¬
tion will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies with copies
at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the said societies may thus
considerably increase their income by the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to the Editor of
The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK. By ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell. Price 7s. 6d. Postage
6|d. Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model colony—Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightful climate, and the most fertile of, soils.
By Frederick A Binney.
London Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 12, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS,
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-vlllas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz*Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-nill, Balham, S.W.
Hltchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington.gq., Liverpool. •
Ilonywood, Mrs., S2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Itamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road, Finch-
ley-road, N.W.
Wasou, James, Wason’s-bulldings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Attn’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlnam-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mr*. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North Brixton.S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D„ G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wllberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cbbden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-sqaare, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A.,LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road, S.E,
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J. Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, S.W., and
8, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater. W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Witball, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs. Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I.l’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,near
Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adehna Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prospect
6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dircklnck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme.de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York ; U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr, W» H. Terry, 96, Eussell-street,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq.,NurnbergerStrasse, 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H' Terry, Esq],, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Hpes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq^ M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 87, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, Jl, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq.', M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
LeComte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunliut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society, 74, Russcll-street, Liverpool.
L’Uuion Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka ■
Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 28, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research: and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which ail the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, dnd is eligible for election to all
offices.
Fribnds wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W. C„ of whom
ipies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REDAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and ita'rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 69, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
ly/TISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
-LtJL RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms
on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, has returned to England, and is now prepared to re¬
ceive calls as usual, to [lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E,
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative [Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily? from 2 till 6, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a^distance can con¬
sult by letter.
MRS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays, at
7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m,, at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Previous
appointments should be made for private seances.
eJA»
eJ/o
J. mb. tx\
YOJ-UjVIE ^EVEj^. J^Uj^BER TWENTY.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12th, 187B.
SHALL WE IMPORT A FAKIR ?
Certain Indian officers, and not a few persons who
have written standard books about Hindostan, have
told marvellous stories of things done in the presence
of Fakirs and of Indian jugglers, and this to such an
extent as to have excited natural curiosity on the part
of the British public. The natives of India are more
susceptible to mesmerism than the English, and the
more sensitive a man is to such influence, the more
likely is he to prove a powerful medium. A well-
authenticated case was recorded in the last number of
The Spiritualist, setting forth how Covindasamy, the
Fakir of Trivanderam, “ crossed his legs in Oriental
fashion, then rose about two feet from the ground and
remained immovable, in a position similar to that of
the bronze Buddhas which every tourist now brings
from the far East, although the greater part of these
statuettes are manufactured in all probability, in Bir¬
mingham.” Some years ago, when one of the English
newspapers was abusing Mr. Home, it asserted that he
claimed to be an especially gifted individual, simply be¬
cause he could “ sit in the air,” but, argued the
editor, “that is nothing at all, since Indian jugglers
can do the same thing.” Nevertheless, how convenient
it would bo at the present time if we had a Fakir who
could sit in the air whenever he chose. For instance,
if one of the very intelligent and reliable journals
published daily in Fleet-street should assert that it is
impossible that solid objects can rise in the air in
opposition to the force of gravitation, the only thing
the National Association of Spiritualists would need to
do, would be to send its Fakir to Fleet-street, and ask
him to sit in the air half the morning outside the said
office. He might also be turned into a “ sandwich
man ” for the occasion, and on the large bills before
and behind him might be printed in clear type the
quotation from the newspaper which asserted the thing
to be impossible. This would be an immense adver¬
tisement to Spiritualism. Fleet-street would be
blocked, and the Lord. Mayor and the Corporation of
the City of London would necessarily have to interfere
for the purpose of removing the obstruction to the public
highway caused by the assembled crowd. The police
would feel it their duty to take active measures, but there
would be two difficulties in the way. “ First catch
your hare,” says the old proverb, “ and afterwards
cook it.” The first problem would be how to catch the
Fakir. Ladders would be of no use, because directly
they were planted he would gently and elegantly flow
further away; the police would not dare to throw
stones, because that would constitute an assault, neither
would they shoot at him, as some French gendarmes
did recently at a madman who had clambered up a
steeple, and would not come down j if the City police
shot the Fakir, it would be murder. Then again, what
knotty points of law would arise over the matter. There
is no act of Parliament compelling a man to walk on
the ground as he goes along Fleet-street, so if anybody
is clever enough to travel in the air, there is no law at
present to meet the case. Long discussions in the
Lords and Commons, and a special Act of Parliament,
signed by an agitated Queen, would consequently be
necessary to deal with our Fakir. Another use to
which the Fakir might be put would be to take him to
the meetings of the learned societies. If during one
of them Hr. Carpenter were to argue in his usually
self-satisfied style that Spiritual phenomena are all un¬
conscious cerebration, a representative of the National
Association might rise and remark, “ Sir, if you utter
two more words in that strain, up goes the Fakir ! ”
as athletes at fairs inform the public that they
require another two shillings, then “ up goes the don¬
key.” Spiritual phenomena are fugitive in their
•nature, and it would be a very good thing to be able
to exhibit them at will in the open air, in broad day¬
light, as Indian Fakirs are said to be able to do, on
which account alone it would be advantageous to
Spiritualism if Fakirs of the first water were to be im¬
ported. Our Fakir could be made to clear the expenses
of those who imported him, if they made a show of
him in the evening at the Egyptian Hall, in that part
of the building not occupied by Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke; his performances would throw theirs entirely into
the shade, so that those astute performers would have
to devise some more extraordinary tricks than they
show at present, or to emigrate to Botany Bay or to
some other congenial region, where competition in
marvels would be less keen.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Wednesday, last week, as fully reported in our
last, the opening proceedings of the Conference of the
British National Association of Spiritualists for 1875,
took place at the Cavendish-rooms, Mortimer-street,
Hegent-street, London, under the presidency of Mr.
Benjamin Coleman. Mr. J. J. Morse was also publicly
welcomed at the same meeting, on his return from
America.
The hall was completely filled to the doors on the
occasion, it being the first large general meeting of
London Spiritualists which has taken place for several
months past.
The Conference meetings for the reading of papers
began on the following day, Thursday, on the premises
of the National Association, at 38, Great Bussell-street.
The attendance was not large, but of a representative
character. Nearly all the members of the Council, who
have done so much to establish the organisation, were
absent, and those who attended were chiefly local and
provincial workers, whose meeting together for the
purpose of consultation was likely to be of good
service to the cause.
The Liverpool Psychological Society, the chief of the
provincial organisations of Spiritualists, was represented
by two of its oldest and most efficient workers, Messrs.
2S0
THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 12, 1875.
John and Archibald Larnont, whilst Mr. Coates attended
from the Liverpool Psychopathic Institution; Mr. Thomas
Blyton represented the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, and Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald of the Brixton Psychological Society were
present. There were also in attendance Mr. Glendin-
ning of Glasgow, Mr. Galloway of Newcastle, Mr.
Harper of Birmingham, Mr. Markley of Peterborough,
Dr. Clark of Edinburgh, and several others well
acquainted with the condition of Spiritualism in the
provinces. Mr. R. Pearce (who during the last seven
or eight years has done more than anybody else to
spread a knowledge of Spiritualism among working
men in a large section of London north of the Thames)
was likewise present, and gave some interesting infor¬
mation drawn from his extensive experiences. As it
had been arranged that the subject of “ Healing
Mediumship ” should occupy a considerable portion of
the attention of the Conference, Mr. Ashman and Dr.
Mack, the two chief healing mediums in this country,
were in attendance at some of the meetings to give
information upon that subject. Mr. Shorter and Dr.
Sexton of the Spiritual Magazine, also Mr. Harrison of
The Spiritualist were present.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
' At the opening meeting on Thursday morning, Dr. Sexton occu¬
pied the chair.
Mr. Thomas Shorter described the cure of a cancer “ of fifteen
years’ standing ” in the case of his own sister, through the healing
mediumship of Dr. Mack. He said that the cure was effected in
eight weeks. He thought that healing mediumship should occupy
more of the attention of Spiritualists than it did at present; one
reason it should do so was that some people had an idea that the
agency at work in producing spiritual manifestatiens was satanic,
therefore the religious objections to Spiritualism could be best re¬
moved by pointing out the effects of healing mediumship, as those
effects were unquestionably good. “ Could an evil tree bring forth
good fruit ? ” They had been told how One of old went about doing
good, healing all manner of diseases, and if some of our mediums
did the same, it would win to the cause the sympathy of persons of
all shades of opinion. Still, he did not think that healing medium-
sbip was the highest use of Spiritualism; for he believed that its
highest use could not be foun'd in any physical good, but rather in
the moral and spiritual services which might be rendered to man¬
kind. (Applause.) . Healing mediumship was a great truth. When
Dr. Newton visited England he cured large numbers of persons,
and a friend then present in the room had with commendable in¬
dustry applied himself to the getting up of an extensive and authen¬
ticated list of cases, in which strildng benefit had been conferred on
sufferers. Everybody could see how inadequate the science and art
of the day were to cope with the sorrow and sickness around, show¬
ing that some more efficient treatment was needed. One of the best
means by which healing mediumship could be extended would be
to increase the number of healing mediums, those at present de¬
voted to the work having far too much demand upon their time to
attend efficiently to all the patients who required aid. The power
belonged, in an undeveloped stage, to a larger number of persons
than was generally supposed, and it might be brought out just the
same as other gifts in mediumship were developed. Sitters at
spirit circles should ask for the healing power; and to ascertain
whether they receive it or not, theyshould put the matter to the proof,
by experiment, either in private or in public. He had noticed that
healing mediums were usually persons of redundant health, and im¬
bued with love to all mankind. The question arose—should a local
or central institution for promoting the healing of the sick be esta¬
blished ? He thought that the desired work could be best accom¬
plished as the outgrowth of another movement rather than as a
special institution, and much could bo said in favour of a central
establishment for the purpose; local institutions also had their
advantages, because they adapted themselves to local necessities.
He would respectfully suggest that the Council of the British National
Association of Spiritualists should appoint a committee to take the
whole subject into consideration, the object being to determine the
best means of promoting the extension of healing mediumship.
(Applause.)
Mr. Began said that when he first sat at a spirit circle he wished
to become a writing medium, but discovered that he was a powerful
healer. An Australian lady suffering from catarrh came to him,
and he cured her in a quarter of an hour. She went the same after¬
noon into a shop and talked of it for several hours, trying to convert
them to Spiritualism. (Laughter.) That lady was now present
in the room, and could vouch for the accuracy of his statement. In
the next case which he tried he cured his wife of bronchitis; in this
case the spirits made him warm his hands at the fire before making
passes. He had treated Mrs. Bullock for a severe abscess in the
neck, and reduced it to half its size in about two- hours by passes.
The Chairman said that some healing mediums employed clair¬
voyants, who diagnosed the disease, and in that respect had an
advantage over the doctors, who oftentimes could not tell what was
the matter with the patients. As the clairvoyants saw the diseased
organs that difficulty was overcome. He strongly objected to the
term “ magnetic ” as sometimes used by mediums (Applause), for
the power to which they referred by that word was not magnetism,
consequently the misuse of the word tended to create prejudice
amongst those who knew what magnetism really was. In stating
what cases had been cured by healing mediumship those only should
be quoted that had been diagnosed by an orthodox medical man
before spiritual treatment, otherwise some of the cases could be
explained away by objectors.; hence witnesses should confine them¬
selves to cases of cancer or other complaints, incurable in ordinary
medical practice.
Dr. Hallock said that the cases described by Mr. Eegan were
not decided enough to carry weight. He knew- a man who had
been hobbling about for years on crutches in New York, and who
went to see Dr. Newton on business. The latter said : “ Before I
can talk business with you I must heal you.” The patient had
seriously injured the Achilles tendon of his leg in getting out of a
street car, and the doctors told him they could not effect a cure.
Dr. Newton cured him in a few minutes. The name of the sufferer
thus cured was Mr. Charles Partridge, known to many of his
listeners as the publisher of the Spiritual Telegraph. As all present
were tolerably well agreed as to the reality of healing mediumship,
he thought they had met to discuss its philosophy and its vise, rather
than to multiply examples. Spirits were men and women who had
once lived amongst us, therefore it was rational to suppose that
they should take an interest in their former pursuits and the pur¬
suits of then.’ friends, so it was not to be wondered at that some of
them should desire to assist mediums who wished to go about
healing the sick. He thought that it was good that there was no
infallible cure for disease; if there were one, men would take no
care of their health; he thought that these manifestations were
chiefly of use because they displayed the benevolence connected with
them, and because they pointed in the direction in which the source
of all power was to be found. (Applause.)
Mr. Clark, surgeon, late «f Edinburgh, said that he did not doubt
healing mediumship, but he thought that all cases should be well
investigated before acceptation. Take the case, for. instance, of
Miss Shorter. He thought that it was one of the most wonderful
things ever heard of, indeed, quite a miracle; or rather, from his point
of view as a medical man, two miracles. In the first place it was a
miracle that the cancer should have existed for fifteen years, since
such a fact was altogether without precedent. These cancers were
soft, if they were cut away they reproduced themselves. A second
miracle in the case was that the cancer should have been cured.
What he wanted to ask Mr. Shorter was, to tell him the name of a
medical man who some years ago diagnosed the case, and pro¬
nounced it to be really cancer. He thought they would agree that
his request was reasonable, although he was speaking to an
audience of Spiritualists, by whom doctors and clergymen were
often attacked.
Mr. Coleman : Are you not a Spiritualist ?
Dr. Clark replied that he was a Spiritualist, and that he had seeu
neuralgia and diseases of the nerves and muscles cured by mes¬
meric treatment. He was once a member of the Mesmeric Society
established in Glasgow, under the presidency of Mr. J., VV. Jackson,
whose assistants went about operating upon people in the town.
His experience caused him to believe that what might be termed
“ vital energy ”—he could find no better name for it—could be trans¬
ferred from one individual to another, and that by it functional
disorders could be cured. Two years ago he was assistant physician
at the Hospital for Sick Children at Edinburgh, and ho and his
colleague there stopped using drugs and commenced using mes¬
merism. They were able to demonstrate the beneficial effects of
the latter to those who cared to look at them, but very few persons
cared to take the trouble. Some of the patients could be shown to
be insensible to pain under mesmeric treatment; they did not feel
anything when pricked with needles or pins. That these were facts
,he was perfectly satisfied. The force he had seen moving tables
was also a real force, a dynamic force of some value. If structural
changes or organic diseases in the human body were cured by
mesmerism or healing mediumship, such cases would be miracles
from his point of view. He therefore wanted to know the name of
the orthodox medical man who diagnosed the disease and pro¬
nounced it to be cancer. He believed that some persons were
calling themselves “ doctors ” who had no right so to do; they
should remember that any man assuming the title of doctor without
being duly qualified exposed himself to a fine, it being a breach of
the law of the land, and the members of the medical profession
were taking severe steps to see that the law was enforced. He did
not say that the law was a good law—indeed, he did not think it
was—but he merely stated this by way of warning. (Applause.)
Dr. Mack said that he did not think the company had come there
to speak of special cases, but rather to know how the healing power
could be obtained or augmented. As a healing medium he felt
himself drawn to some persons, and that was the reason he called
the power “ magnetism.”
Nov. 12, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
231
Mr. Humphreys suggested that the Conference should recommend
the Council to appoint a committee to investigate the important case
laid before it by Mr. Shorter.
The Chairman said that he thought such a line of action would
be out of order. The Council would know all that had been said,
and anything which it could take into consideration with advantage
it would be sure to do. (Applause.)
Mr. Shorter said that ho had not asserted that the cancer was
fully formed sixteen years ago, but that the tumour then first began
to form. He was sorry he could not present Dr. Clark with a
medical diagnosis of the case, although had he known the course
the disease would have taken, and that these qiiestions would have
been put, he would have taken steps to obtain proper certi¬
ficates. The fact was that he had no great faith m doctors,
so did not have the highest medical aid. More recently, however,
they had called in the assistance of Dr. Dixon, who had been
educated among medical men of the old school, but he did not know
whether Dr. Dixon treated it as a case of cancer. The symptoms
were just the same as those from which his mother Suffered, and she
died of cancer; clairvoyants all agreed without exception, both as
to the character and the seat of the disease.
Mr. James Coates said that in extending the benefits of healing
mediumship, he thought that individual effort was best; although
he had only been thrown by chance, as it were, upon the surface of
the spiritual movement at Liverpool, he had founded the Psycho¬
pathic Institute there.
MBDIUMSHIP, ITS NATURE AND VARIETIES.*
Mr. William H. Harrison then read the following paper:—
As some of the friends now present are well acquainted with the
phenomena of Spiritualism, whilst others have but recently com¬
menced to inquire into the subject, I will give a brief description of
the salient features of some of the chief varieties of mediumship,
for the benefit of the latter, and for the benefit of the former men¬
tion a few conditions, learnt only by long experience, which, if at¬
tended to, help to secure good seances.
The prevailing idea among novices is that Spiritualism consists
entirely of table-rapping, table-moving, the floating of solid ob¬
jects in the air, and other inexplicable phenomena produced in the
presence of mediums, and that these physical effects are accom¬
panied by little or nothing of an intellectual or religious nature.
Physical manifestations, however, merely afford practical proof
that there is a power at work greater than that possessed by any
mortals present, and that there is something of a tangible nature to
investigate. Wei'e it not for these physical phenomena much
which takes place at spirit circles might be supposed to be due to
mesmerism, to the unconscious action of the brain of the medium,
or to obscure physiological causes. The generally accepted theory
adopted by Spiritualists to explain the facts is that in trance and
clairvoyant mediumship a spirit out of the body mesmerises the
medium, and by the exercise of will-power causes the sensitive to
speak or see what the controlling power wishes; as mesmerists
have sometimes been able to do the same thing with their sensitives,
the explanation does not seem to be unreasonable. Physical mani¬
festations are believed to be produced by spirits who take a certain
amount of vital energy and material substance chiefly from the
bodies of the mediums, and therewith produce raps, the movement
of solid objects, and physical effects.
INSPIRATIONAL MEDIUMSHIP.
One of the highest forms of mediumship is that in which a sensi¬
tive is inspired to give utterance to religious teachings, to advocate
social reforms, and to promulgate ideas of which the individual is
altogether incapable in the normal state. The mediums are usually
insensible, and in a deep trance at the, time, as in the example
wherein Coleridge wrote the best portion of his celebrated poem,
“ Kublai Khan,” during sleep. As an example of the results of in¬
spirational mediumship, I may quote the following verses, given
through the mediumship of Miss Lizzie Doten, at the conclusion of
a public lecture in Boston, U. S. The poem was addressed to the
chairman of the meeting, Mr. L. P. Wilson, and was taken down in
shorthand as it fell from the lips of the medium. It purported to
come from Anna Cora, Mr. Wilson’s only child, who had passed to
the spirit-world at the early age of twelve years and seven months;
she was always called by the pet name “ Birdie ”:—
With rosebuds in my hand
Presh from the Summer-land,
Father, I come and stand
Close by your side.
You cannot see me here,
Or feel my presence near,
And yet your “Birdie” dear
Never has died.
0; no', or angels bright,
Out of that blessed light,
Shone on my wondering sight,
Singing, “ We come!
Lamb for the fold above—
Tender, young, nestling dove—*
Safe in our arms of love
Haste to thy home.”
* This memoir will shortly be published as a cheap pamphlet for the
information of inquirers, information haying been sent us that something
of the kind is wanted.—Ed,
Mother! I could not stay;
In a sweet dream I lay,
Wafted to Heaven away,
Far from the night;
Then, with a glad surprise,
Did I unclose mine eyes,
Under those cloudless skies,
Smiling with light!
0 ! were you with me there,
Free from your earthly care,
AH of my joy to share,
I were more blest.
But it is best to stay
Here in the earthly way,
Till the good angels say,
“ Come to your rest! ”
Check then the falling tear;
Think of me still as near.
Father and mother dear,
Soon on that shore,
Where all \the loved ones meet,
Besting your pilgrim feet,
Shall you with blessings greet
“ Birdie ” once more.
That spiritual inspiration is a fact cannot very well be denied
while its reality in past ages is1 preached every Sunday from every
pulpit in the land, and spiritual phenomena give practical proof of
the. truth of such ecclesiastical utterances, to the great discom¬
fiture of materialists.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Were healing mediumship more cultivated than it is at present, it
would shower rich blessings upon society. One of the most re¬
markable healing mediums of modern times is Dr. J. K. Newton,
who visited England in the year 1870, and cured many people of
their ailments in London, Liverpool, and other great towns. In The
Spiritualist newspaper of July 15th, 1870, alistof the names and ad¬
dresses of more than a hundred people, whose diseases had been
healed in a few minutes by Dr. Newton simply by the laying on of
hands and making passes over them, was published. A few days
afterwards the editor of The Spiritualist issued a printed circular
to all these people to ask whether each cure was permanent.
Among the letters he received in reply were the following:—
“ 8, Upper Copland-street, Grove-road, St. John’s-wood.—Sir,—
On behalf of Mr. G. Richards, of 58, Earl-street, Edgware-road, in
reply to your note of the 15th instant, I beg to say it was entirely
my persuasion that induced him to see Dr. Newton, and I am glad
to state that the relief he derived from the treatment by that gentle¬
man is permanent, and the cure effected is of a very remarkable
nature. It was a case of paralysis, ho having been afflicted by the
same for three years, during which time he could not close his
hand, and very frequently the pains in his hand and arm were such
that to rest was quite impossible. He can now close his hand,
and has experienced no pain whatever since his treatment by Dr.
Newton. He has been under five medical gentlemen to one of
whom he has shown his case, since cured by Dr. Newton. He
was very much astonished, and also acknowledged his belief- in
the cure. Mr. Richards wished me not to mention any names of
the medical gentlemen in this reply, as he is satisfied they did
their best, and he earnestly requests me to assure you that he
shall ever be grateful to Dr. Newton for the benefit he has derived
by his visit to this country. I am (on behalf of Mr. G. Richards),
very truly yours, J ohn Tomlin.”
“ 18, Great James-street, Bedford-row.—Sir,—In answer to your
note of June 15th, I am happy to say that I have not had a pain in
my hip-joint since I was under Dr. Newton. There’s still a weak¬
ness in the leg, arising I think from the leaders in my leg being
drawn up, and the leg is and has been only about two-thirds the
size of tne left leg. As I told you, I have had the disease in it for
five years, and it was still getting worse. I am thankful that I went
to Dr. Newton. I have been under medical treatment by my family
doctor, and I have been to St. Bartholomew’s, King’s College, and
Royal Free hospitals, and never got any relief from the pain.
Wishing Dr. Newton every success in his good work, I am, yours
respectfully, G. Huckle.”
Sarah Cole, 25, Warburton-road, London-fields. Nearly blind of
both eyes, and could only just see to dress her children. The cure
is permanent and complete; she can now thread needles and read
newspapers. The doctors had previously told her that her com¬
plaint was “ constitutional.” She had been treated at[the Ophthalmic
Hospital, Moorfields, and by Dr. Simmonds, of Hackney, but
received no benefit. For ten months before seeing Dr. Newton her
eyes had been growing worse; they were very much inflamed, and
throbbed with pain incessantly. Wore a sunshade when she went
to Dr. Newton, because she could not bear the light. Dr. Newton
cured her instantaneously, and in walking home she had no pain, no
inflammation, no dimness, no sunshade. Her cure is obvious to all
who know her. She says—“ This I know, before I went to Dr.
Newton I was nearly blind, but now I see.” Her husband also
attests the truth of these statements, and has sent us his signature
appended thereunto.
“ 285, Gray’s-inn-road. Sir,—In answer to your desire to hear
232
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 12, 1875.
from me with relation to my experience of Dr. Newton’s treatment
for deafness, I beg to say my hearing is considerably improved in
consequence of visiting Dr. Newton. As a proof,;I tried several
times previously to visiting Dr. Newton to hear the ticking of my
watch, but could not do so; but to my great surprise, and no less
satisfaction, ever since the doctor has treated me I have been able
to do so. In conclusion, I would say my deafness is of twenty-five
years’ standing, and I was a good deal sceptical as to getting any
relief, and in all honesty I will say, though not cured, I am a good
deal better, for which I am obliged to Dr. Newton.—Yours, most
sincerely, John Palmer.”
W. Ashley, 5, Catherine-street, Liverpool, retired merchant, in
rapid consumption, given over by the. doctors, who told his wife to
be prepared for his death at any moment. He had not been out of
his bed for, five months, and on Saturday, May 7th, burst a blood <
vessel. On Sunday, May 8th, Dr. Newton saw him, and in seven
minutes brought him down stairs in such good condition that he
attended a public meeting the same evening; next day went out
for a walk, ate a meat dinner, and drank ale with it.' Has since
been examined with a stethoscope, and the doctors say that his lungs
are all right. He writes us:—“ Sir,—In reply to your letter of
yesterday respecting the cure by Dr. Newton, I can only add that,
so far as I am able to judge, the cure is a permanent one. Some days
ago I was examined by a medical man of standing in this town (not
my own medical attendant), who pronounced, after a careful exam¬
ination, the lungs all right. After this I think I need not add more.
—Respectfully yours, Wm. Ashley.”
Mesmerism has effected wonderful cures, but none to equal those
due to healing mediumship. Dr. Newton was a thorough medium,
and on some occasions the spirits would convey messages by making
rapping noises in his presence, and by giving physical demonstra¬
tion of their actual presence and power. It will be remembered
that the newspapers abused Dr. Newton soundly during the time
he was in London, calling him a “miracle-monger” on their
placards at the bookstalls, and so on; but I am not aware that
one of them took the trouble to call upon his patients or to inves¬
tigate the facts, although they were furnished with a list of more
than one hundred cures. Dr. Newton failed to effect a cure in
about four cases out of five, and his only fault that I know of was
that he was an out-and-out enthusiast. He could not bear to
converse with any positive-minded person, as the influence of the
presence of such threw him into a mesmeric sleep after a short
talk. The good old man remained in England but a few months,
during which he gave away all he had—some £700—to the poor,
then returned to the United States. In short, his life was such an
approximation to that of the Great Exemplar who healed the sick
1800 years ago, that no wonder he was as much abused as the.
latter would be were He to return to earth and say to the bishops
and clergy of all denominations, “ Sell all that thou hast and give
to the poor, and go forth healing the sick by the laying on of
hands.” His reputed followers would retort that He was a wicked
revolutionist, whose teachings were dangerous to the State, and
who ought to be put down.
There is now in London a Dr. Mack, an American healing
medium, of whom Miss Shorter, of 23, Prince of Wales’s-road,
N.W.—a lady very well known to many here present—wrote
to The Spiritualist newspaper a few days ago, that m eight weeks
he had cured her of a most painful cancerous tumour of fifteen or
sixteen years’ standing, and all this without drugs or surgical
operation. All that Dr. Mack did was to hold her hands for
several minutes at a time, so that the powers about him sho uld
make their influence felt. He also gave her long strips of paper
which had been held in his hands for some time to get charged
with his influence, and wich these she was instructed to bandage
herself. To the outside world nothing could look more like hum¬
bug than this; yet, witness the results, and remember the words
inverses 11 and 12 of Acts xix.:—“And God wrought special
miracles by the hands of Paul: so that from his body were brought
unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons, and the diseases departed
from them, and the evil spirits went out of them.” Dr. Newton
cured several persons in the same way, but these things are not
miracles; they all occur in subjection to fixed laws governing the
spiritual domain of nature—laws at present little studied or
understood.
PHYSICAL MEDIUMSHIP.
By means of physical mediumship spirits give tangible proof of
their presence among men. With weak mediums raps of more or
less distinctness and power, and movements of furniture while
their hands are in contact with it, sometimes take place; but in the
presence of powerful, well-developed mediums astounding noises
are sometimes heard, and heavy bodies frequently move about in
strong daylight without being touched at all.
My attention was first called to Spiritualism by Mr. Cromwell
Yarley, the Atlantic Telegraph electrician—a clever man of science,
and a well-known Fellow of the Royal Society. After I had seen
some of the manifestations at h\p house, through the mediumship
of Mrs. Yarley, he recommended me to go to a seance with Mrs.
Mary Marshall the younger, who then resided at 13, Bristol-gardens,
Maida-valo, Paddington; and Mrs. Varley made an appointment
to meet me there on the 26th of June, 1868. I called at two o’clock
in the afternoon, and what took place may be quoted as follows
from a little book of mine, entitled Spirit People:—
MRS. MARY MARSHALL’S MEDIL'MSHIF.
“ I asked if she would Nlet me examine the tables before the
seance began. She replied, ‘ Yes, of course I will,’ and pulled the
tablecloth off the large table. It was a round table, six or seven
feet in diameter. I went underneath, unscrewed the upper portion,
then rolled off the top like a wheel, and examined the pedestal upon
which it had been standing, to see if anything passed from the
pedestal to the top of the table, for at that time I had a notion that
good raps might be made by the aid of electro-magnetic apparatus,
and I wanted to find out how the wires from the battery passed up
the stem into the woodwork of the table; however, I found nothing,
and observed that the floor was carpeted, and that I could place the
table on any part of the carpet I pleased. Next I examined the
small table, which had a top about a yard in diameter, made of an
honest piece of solid mahogany, and no veneering^ wherefore I
requested Mr. and Mrs. Marshall to sit with me at the small table,
and not at the large one. I took out my note-book and pencil, and
placed them on the table, round which we then sat, with our six
hands on its surface. Sunlight was streaming in through the two
large "windows in the room, so no fault could be found "with the
amount of illumination.”
A TABLE FLOATING "UNDER TEST CONDITIONS.
“ We had no sooner taken our seats than the table gave a jump,
and sent my note-book and pencil flying over my shoulder. The
table then lay down on one side, till its edge touched the ground;
it jumped up again; then lay down on the other side; after which
it began to rotate upon its vertical axis, and to travel about the
room, jumping now and then. This was startling; I could not see
that our hands were doing it, but I asked Mrs. Marshall whether it
was necessary that our hands should touch the table at all. She
replied—‘ Yes, to Jet the electricity go through, but the slightest
touch will do.’ I did not quarrel with her about the word ‘ elec¬
tricity,’ but suggested that we should each of us touch the table
with the tip of the middle finger only of each hand, bending up all
the other fingers, so that they should be well clear of its surface.
We did so; nothing but the points of our six fingers touched the
top of the table, yet it was travelling about the room, occasionally
jumping off the floor, in as lively a manner as ever, we walking
with it. I then bent down, so as to see under the table, and asked
Mrs. Marshall if she would be kind enough to keep her dress clear
of its legs, which she did. Then I suggested that we should all
stand as far away from the table as we could, so that we had to
bend over and stretch out our hands, in order that the points of our
six fingers might remain in contact with its upper surface. We did
so, and I again bent down to see if anything was touching the table
underneath. Then I remarked—‘Now I am quite satisfied that
nothing is touching the table except the tips of our six fingers.’
Directly I said this, the table rose off the ground slowly to a height
. of about eighteen inches. Then it fell from our fingers and was
dashed down on to the floor, so that one of its claws was broken off
at a place where the solid wood was two or ’ throe inches thick;
then the table turned itself bottom upwards, and stood rocking upon
one of its edges, with its broken foot moving up and down close
before my face, as I stood with my hands on my knees looking at
it. ‘ There,’ said Mrs. Marshall, ‘ they are showing you the broken
leg!’ Then the table turned over again by itself, and set itself
nearly upright, but not quite, because, having lost its foot, it could
no longer stand level. After it regained its perpendicular position,
it continued to move about the floor with great violence, our hands
again touching it. I sat down in a chair, and remarked—‘ Well,
Mrs. Marshall, I am quite sure that not one of us did that.’ This
acknowledgment seemed to please her, since, as we all know now,
it is not everybody who will admit the physical facts of Spiritualism,
even when they see them with their own eyes.”
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
“ We resumed our seats at the table. At this moment Mrs. Varley
came in and joined the circle. Mrs. Marshall told me to put a sheet
of paper and a pencil under the table, in order that the spirits
might give us some direct writing, and she told me that I must not
look at the paper while they were doing it, which order seemed to
me then to be rather peculiar. All our hands were on the top of
the table. I heard a scratch on the paper near my feet, then the
table by tilts signalled out “ Mend the pencil.” I picked it up, and
found that one broad line had been drawn half across the paper, and
that then the point of the pencil had broken. Another point was
cut, the paper and pencil were placed under the table again;
scratching noises began upon the paper immediately, and lasted for
about a minute, when the table began to jump about, which Mrs.
Marshall said was a signal that they had finished the writing. I
picked up the paper, and found ‘ God bless you ’ written upon it.
The table next told me that I was a medium, in which it seems to
have made a mistake, for I have never been able to obtain any
manifestations from that day to this. While we were sitting round
the table I heard a lumbering noise behind me, and on looking
round saw the great six-foot table running up to us all by itself;
after taking a run of about four feet, it rested with its edge against
the edge of the little table round which we were sitting.”
MATERIALISATION MEDIUMSHIP.
Spirit hands and spirit forms now appear commonly enough at
I spirit circles, and Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., has done much to
Nov. 12, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
253
make the general public aware of their nature and reality. Records
of such phenomena are plentiful in the Bible, and now that the
method of evolving them has been rediscovered in a scientific age,
not many years can elapse before the Jaws governing them are
unravelled. The woman of Endor raised a materialised spirit by
no special intelligence or act of her own, like many of our mediums,
for she was frightened at the result. Direct spirit writing with a
materialised spirit hand is thus described in Daniel v. verse 5: “In
the same hour came forth the fingers of a man’s hand, and wrote
over against the candlestick upon the plaster of the wall of the
king’s palace: and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote.”
Mr. Thomas Everitt, of Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.,
who is present at this Conference, has had plenty of direct spirit
writing in his own home through the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt;
indeed, the manifestation is common through several mediums, so
as to be quite familiar to many of the listeners here to-day.
CONDITIONS PAVOURING THE EVOLUTION OP MANIFESTATIONS.
The phenomena of Spiritualism are so at variance with the
ordinary experience of outsiders, that it is but natural that the
public should be slow to admit their reality, and conviction is most
quickly effected at homo by holding a family seance with no
stranger, no Spiritualist, and no professional medium present. The
door of the room should be locked, and arrangements made that
nobody is to enter and no interruption made during a trial sitting
of one hour’s duration. The circle should consist of about six per¬
sons, three of each sex, and they should sit quietly, with their hands
on a table, waiting for abnormal motions of it, or raps; if these come,
which they do at about one such trial circle out of every three, they
will be found to bo governed by intelligence. For instance, when
the noises begin, ask for three raps, and three will be given.
One very influential condition favouring good manifestations is
that the medium shall be thoroughly comfortable and happy, and
shall have full confidence in all the spectators present, so as to easily
pass into the unconscious trance state, without the slightest fear of
the occurrence of anything disagreeable. Tricks played by rough
persons at seances might result in the medium waking in the next
world instead of this one. Another favouring condition is that the
medium shall have had no seance in the earlier part of the day,
because all manifestations drain his vital powers, and if these
powers are drawn upon during the first part of the day he may not
recover his full vitality by the evening. A third condition, atten¬
tion to which often results in splendid seances, is this—that the
medium shall go to bed in the middle of the day, after a good meal,
and take several hours’ sound sleep ; then, when thus thoroughly
refreshed in mind and body, only a light meal, such as tea, should
be taken before the seance.
Lastly, if there is any break or interval in the seance during the
evening, the medium should go out into the open air for ten
minutes or a quarter of an hour. If the conditions are good,
materialisation manifestations during the first part of the evening
are usually ten minutes or a quarter of an hour before they begin;
but if there is a break in the seance of say fifteen or thirty minutes’
duration, when the medium afterwards enters the cabinet again
the manifestations will begin almost at once—in fact, in the very
act of shutting the curtains or door of the cabinet a spirit hand and
arm may come out and clutch the observer who is doing it. At
dark seances, if the spirits have once got up the power, lights may
be struck very frequently at times when they give permission,
yet the manifestations will begin again the instant the lights are
put out, the phenomena being in no way weakened apparently by
the interval of absence of darkness. Thus, when the spirits have
accumulated power from a medium in the dark, there appears to be
a great deal of that power hanging about him afterwards in
the light. The movement of solid objects without being touched,
and other strong manifestations, which sometimes occur in the light,
are more likely to take place if the circle sits previously for a quarter
of an hour in darkness, and all the other conditions which are known
to favour manifestations are supplied.
A medium is a mesmeric sensitive, and anything which makes
him nervous or anxious tends to stop manifestations, so if those
about the medium encourage him by asserting very positively that
the seance is certain to be a success, it will do a very great deal
towards bringing about that result; whereas, if they talk seriously
to him, pointing out how important it is that the seance shall be
successful, thus inducing a state of anxiety of mind about the
results, it is one of the surest methods of stopping manifestations
altogether.
At the close of the reading of this paper, Mr. Harrison remarked
that the meeting had already been a prolonged one, and that, if no
discussion followed the reading of his memoir, he should not think
there was any want of courtesy.
Mr. Archibald Lament proposed, and Mr. Morse seconded, a vote
of thanks to the readers of papers; Mr. Coates also proposed a vote
of thanks to the chairman. These were accorded with acclamation,
and the meeting adjourned until the evening.
A continuation of this report will appear in the next number of
T/ie Sjriritmlist.
Many new subscriptions to the “ Harrison Testimonial Fund ”
have been received, and will be published next week.
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE CLEVELAND HALL.
On Sunday evening last*Mr. J. J. Morse delivered the first of a
series of Sunday evening discourses, in the trance state, at the
Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, near Portland-road Railway
Station.
THE AIMS AND INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. Alexander Calder, who presided, opened the proceedings by
saying
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I have great pleasure in attending
here this evening to listen, with you to the first of four lectures,
which, under spirit guidance, Mr. Morse, our friend and distin¬
guished brother in Spiritualism, will deliver in this hall. The
mention of Mr. Morse’s name will, I doubt not, be sufficient to
stimulate your sympathy for him and his labours. Mr. Morse, as
you are aware, has just returned from a successful mission to the
United States of America. Tens of thousands of our countrymen
annually cross the Atlantic for various purposes, but none have
borne to and from that great Republic a richer freight than our
friend. He is a minister of a high and holy design, which, though
eminently calculated to produce the greatest good, has been con¬
cealed by the weakness and folly of ages. His inspirational discourses
illustrate that scene related in the 2nd chapter of Acts, where “ the
apostles began to speak with tongues as the Spirit gave them utter¬
ance.” The truths of Spiritualism are the grandest which the mind
can conceive. They approach us in a perfectly natural manner, and
not only satisfy the senses, but the mind. Unlike some religious
creeds, Spiritualism is based not upon assertion, but on sound fact
and reason. It is a necessity of our twofold nature, for while it
demonstrates the fact of immortality, it powerfully influences the
conduct. Its phenomena fascinate, are sought after with avidity,
rapidly conquer unbelief, and, sinking deep into the heart, bear
their natural fruit. For the Spiritualist is quickened in the way of
righteousness, and, comprehending the meaning of the Psalmist,
readily exclaims, “ Thou knowest my down setting and mine uprising;
thou understandest my thoughts afar off. Thou compasseth my
path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.”
Thus does Spiritualism awaken our innermost soul to the serious
contemplation of a higher life. Once face to face with the spirit
world, we are elevated out of the level of, a material state. Inter¬
course with spirit life, devoutly pursued, is the greatest of human,
consolations. It leads on to that more exalted communion with the
Father of spirits, and brings us a step nearer the Divinity. Spiritualism
is, therefore, well adapted to raise mankind from degradation to
the lofty pinnacle of glory and happiness which it is destined to
attain. I said degradation. Did I use too harsh a word ? for is it
not degrading in immortal beings to pass nine-tenths of existence
in providing for the physical while next to nothing is done for their
spiritual nature ? . Society in all its plans practically excludes
the consideration of spirit life. It does gross injustice to the soul,
and as a consequence the whole creation is out of harmony, and
will continue so until the balance between the physical and the
spiritual shall have been regulated, and the claims of each fairly
adjusted. Material life, in a word, weighs down the scale, while
spiritual life touches the beam. But, thanks to the Father of spirits,
a new era has appeared. The continuity of the earliest principles
of Christianity and of its attendant wonderful phenomena is restored.
Long led astray from the track by theorists, who have set up shallow
methods, instead of diving deeper into the studies of nature, and
the glorious testimonies of the eternal, man at length, having won
freedom of mind and of action, returns to the path of true religion
and virtue, where, if he search, he will find repose and the gratifi¬
cation of his best aspirations. Of one thing we may rest assured,
that wherever our spiritual nature is cultivated, wherever consider¬
ations in its favour forril the chief staple of our thoughts, the
furniture of our minds, our whole existence is enlarged, and our
being is purified and brightened. Let us then, my friends, possess
more and more of this higher life. Let us love it as a potent good.
Let us cherish it more than all other things, since it is able not only
to quicken us in our daily life and pursuits, but, what is better, it
enriches and strengthens our spirits, and prepares us to enter with
cheerfulness unmingled with alarm the glorious regions beyond.
A hymn was then sung, from which we quote two verses:—
The morning light is breaking,
The shadows disappear;
The sons of earth are waking
From darkness, doubt, and fear.
The human mind, enshrouded
In superstition’s night,
In mysteries beclouded,
Beholds the dawning light.
Bright angels hover o’er us,
The welcome news to bring;
Of better scenes before us,
In rapturous joy they sing.
Earth’s millions from their sadness
Awake, with joy and love, ■
And, filled with peace and gladness,
Look to their home above.
THE PHYSICAL ASPECTS OF' THE FUTURE LIFE.
Mr. J. J. Morse then passed into the trance state, after which the
controlling spirit said that he intended to speak upon the physical
234
THE SPIRITUALIST.
aspects of the future life. If there were no bond of sympathy or
connection between the present and the future life, the word
“ physical,” as applied to the latter, would present a difficulty. The
misconceptions of the world were more about words than about
principles. By a little clear thought and the abolition of ambiguous
terms, the difficulties of many disputed problems could be removed.
If the present and the future worlds were entirely separated from
each other, men could learn nothing about the next state of existence
except by revelation. Now the tendency of modern thought was to
overthrow miracle altogether, and to reduce everything to law and
order. If there had once been a miracle revealing the nature of the next
life, the world might say that it has no need of modern spiritual
communications, for if the people did not believe in the old revela¬
tions it would be no good furnishing them with new ones from the
same source, so mankind must travel on in its blindness and
ignorance. Was it not an advantage, in this age of declining
faith, to revive the old manifestations, and to receive new informa¬
tion applicable to the necessities of the age? The placing before
the people erroneous ideas as to the nature of man’s future life had.
brought about the intellectual scepticism of the present day, which
scepticism modern Spiritualism tended to overthrow; it would dis¬
sipate false ideas of the spiritual nature of man, and thus mankind
.would learn soriiething of what the world beyond was in reality.
If it succeeded in doing this, it would vindicate its claim to being
useful to the world; in fact, it would fulfil one of the greatest
uses to mankind which had been experienced for many centuries.
If Spiritualism pulled dowri without building up, if it destroyed
everywhere, leaving in its path waste and ruin where all before
had been order and prosperity, it would be a curse instead of a
blessing to mankind; but it had the power to build up. The
spiritual world was the outgrowth of the present one, under the
rule of the laws and principles proceeding from the Great
Governor of the universe. In both worlds man existed as
an absolute reality. The natural body was not the man,
and was thrown aside when he entered the next state of exist¬
ence ; it was but the physical machine through which the
spirit expressed itself. Once admit that spirits from the next
world communicate, it followed that they must have machinery
within their grasp which would enable them to manifest upon the
material plane; hence the spiritual life must of necessity be more or
less connected with physical conditions. Instead of the next life
being a fairy-land, where everything men wished for came to them
at once—a beautiful place of light and glory—Spiritualism would
reveal that such ideas were false, and would tear away the glitter¬
ing tinsel. The world might not care to have its visions thus de¬
stroyed ; it was not pleasant for men to have their idols crushed,
yet false ideas of the future life had done more harm to the popular
mind than any evil to which the world had ever been subjected.
The listeners might think that these assertions were made in error,
but they should remember that the evidence did not alone depend
upon those utterances to which they were listening, for the
physical phenomena, directly influenced by spiritual conditions
were before them to explain for themselves. The prevalent idea
was that there were two substances in the universe, one called
“ matter ” and the other called “ spirit,” and although this
was true in one sense, it was not true in the sense that they
were altogether separate, altogether divorced from each other. The
idea was based upon a fact, but erroneous in its expression. The
mind of man could go back to the distant past, where chaos reigned
supreme, and learn by science, how by infinitely slow changes deve¬
lopment after development took place, until it culminated in the
appearance of man upon this stage of being, but the beginning or
the end of this progressive creation could not be seen; it was like
the solar spectrum, both ends of which were invisible to man, the
middle portions only coming within the range of his senses. In
the spectrum the seen and the unseen were connected in syste¬
matic order, so was it with the present and future state of man.
' Forces of nature were continually working under newly-developed
conditions, attaining greater heights, and pushing forward to
greater accomplishments, and the spiritual world was built up with
the forces of nature which had run the gamut of this life. The
same forces existed there as here,butunder different conditions, and
there as here did they express the Divine Spirit of the Eternal God
producing forms of use and beauty. They might ask, “ Shall we
find the phenomena of physical existence there, such, for instance,
as tidal and climatic changes?” • If “Yes” were to be said in
reply, many would be shocked, the prevailing opinion being that
in the land beyond men are removed from the forces and conditions
of physical life, that there all is glory and pei’ennial bloom. But
how many would be prepared to enter into such a theatrical spirit
world. Change in order, and change under natural law, were the
best conditions under which the student of nature could be placed.
The glorious sun was beautiful, but if it always shone it would be
wearisome, so that man felt a relief when night came on, and the
stars began to shine in scintillating brilliancy, and the moon sailed
up the silvery lake of its own creation. Even this would be weari¬
some did it last for ever: winter, with its forbidding clouds fulfill¬
ing their use, furnished pleasure to man. Let man be placed in a
world where there was no change, could he possibly be happy there ?
Very small indeed would be his happiness. An eternal career in a
land of no change would be a sore punishment, as he would soon
discover. The spiritual world was as much suited to meet the neces¬
sities of those who dwell therein, as the present one. It had its hills
Nov. 12, 1875.
and vales, its plains, its flowing streams, and all that appertains
thereto. It had its flowers displaying their beauteous hues, and was
not devoid of the sublime grandeur of the towering cliff. It had its
clouds and its sunsets tP call forth all that was bright and
beautiful in the aspirations of man.’ It was a realm of law, where
there was order and purpose, and there, as here, man could only be
happy by living in accordance with the laws around him. If those
who were listening thought there was an unkindness in being told
this they must go back to their transcendentalism, but the fact was
that the world of spirits was as real and tangible to the spirits as
this was to men; it was a real world filled with real people. There
was an advantage in knowing this before getting there, because a
man who went to a strange country without knowing anything
about it, or making preparation for the circumstances he would
have to encounter, would have ito learn severe lessons which might
have been avoided; hence the immense use in proving the reality
of spiritual phenomena. True, the forces of nature here under¬
went modifications before they did their work there; but if men
called the next one the imponderable world, it might convey clearer
ideas than calling it the spiritual world. In another discourse
something would be said about spiritual life and its conditions, for
a knowledge of the nature of that spiritual life was of more im¬
portance and more necessary to individual happiness. The world
at large did not think so; blind thinkers went on leading the blind
until all was confusion, and directly anybody tried to arrange this
chaos, a wail was raised from one end of the earth to the other, the
cry was “ Hands off! You are touching the Holy of Holies, which
has served our forefathers and ourselves. Touch it not!” But
the advanced thought of the day demanded more facts, more evi¬
dence; the intellectual activity of the time demanded that the pre¬
vailing mystery in relation to the spiritual world should be
removed; it demanded that spiritual knowledge based upon
experience should take the place of superstition, for men were
beginning to feel that there was no mystery in this universe which
could not be dispelled by patient inquiry, and by the acquisition of
knowledge. No doubt many would tlunk these to be strange
theories, and that if Spiritualists believed them they must be
peculiar people, but they (the spirits) who were giving the present
cpmmumcation, claimed only that the facts they uttered were true
to them, and they asked nobody to accept them upon their ipse dixit
as being absolutely true. They wished to involve nobody in the
responsibility attached to their own utterances, which must stand
or fall upon their own merits. They should be accepted only by
those whio felt that they coincided with their own judgments. It
they had true knowledge of the spiritual state, they could meet
death without fear or frown, and welcome him as a bright and
beneficent angel who comes with the hand of friendship to help
them over the flowing stream to land them in the beautiful land
beyond, where angels will welcome their arrival, and where they
will live in a state of happiness if by their lives that condition of
future existence had been honourably earned.
The service closed with the singing of the following hymn:—
Holiest! breathe an evening blessing
Ere repose our spirits seal;
Sin and want we come confessing, .
Thou canst save, and Thou canst heal.
Though destruction walk around us,
Though the arrows past us fly,
Angel-guards from Thee surround us;
We are safe if Thou art nigh.
Though the night be dark and dreary,
Darkness cannot hide from Thee;
Thou art He who, never weary,
Watches where Thy people be.
Should swift death this night o’ertake us,
And our couch become our tomb,
May the morn in heaven awake us,
Clad in light and deathless bloom.
Spibitttalism and the German Press.—Considerable sensa¬
tion has been produced in Germany by a pamphlet by Alexander
Wiessner, entitled The Revived Belief in Miracles, in which the
author attacks the writings of two very different thinkers in Spirit¬
ualism, Mr. A. R. Wallace and the Baroness von Yay. This is
again replied to by Dr. Franz Hoffman, of Wiirsburg University,
and if further echoes are called up in the newspaper press, Spirit¬
ualism in general, and Wallace’s writings in particular, will have
been well advertised. A monthly high-class journal, Deutsche
Blatter, gives a very fair review, by C. E. Baumstark, of Wallace’s
Scientific Aspect of the Supernatural; and the Salon, a magazine of a
lighter character, publishes the first of a series of articles by Mr.
G. C. Wittig, sub-editor of Psychic Studies, on Modern Spiritualism;
Superstition or Scientific Experience ? The article is illustrated by a
representation of the death-scene, as clairvovantly described by
Andrew Jackson Davis in The Philosophy of Death; the artist Mr.
Nestel, of Leipzig, calls it The New ■ Birth of the Soul in Death.
Another German weekly, devoted to literature and the fine arts,
Die Gegenwart, has also published three articles by M. Raven on
American Spiritualists, which are written in a spirit of fair and un¬
biassed criticism.
THE SPlBITUALIST.
235
Nov. 12, 1875.
A STRANGE STORY.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The carefully drawn .up summaries which were published in the
Standard newspaper of the proceedings of the National Association
of Spiritualists, attracted the attention of a sailor of the name of
George J. Smith, who previously had not heard of the subject, and
who was stopping at the time at the Sailors’ Home, Wells-street,
Wellclose-square, London. He accordingly wrote a letter to me
saying that it would be a charity to give attention and possibly
some advice in relation to his own sad story, which was a strange
one, but, he added, “ true nevertheless.”
In his letters and in subsequent conversations with me he said
that the bane of his life was a terrible power possessed on the part
of one man or spirit, of taking possession of the organisation of
another. He added that a man still living in the body had taken
possession of his (George Smith’s) nervous organisation, of his sight
and features, so as to destroy nearly the whole of his independence
and identity, making him quite a slave. The reason why his perse¬
cutor did this was that he felt more comfortable while en rapport with
the body of George Smith than he did with-his own, for he felt all
the sensations of his victim, who was a better man than himself;
but at the same time the sufferer felt the evil nature and sensations
of the person who thus obtained psychological control over him. The
person who had thus taken possession of him could so influence him as
to completely change his natural self, and to make him do and say
things in the presence of his shipmates of which he was ashamed.
He had sometimes stamped with rage to think that he could not
stay some of the thoughts which his persecutor put in his mind,
and which at one time he ascribed to his own weakness. Once he
was brought so low that he had to lay up for six weeks, being
afraid to go on deck. He had suffered from the influence for nine
years or more; during the last two years especially, his sensations
had been a perfect incarnation of wretchedness. He said that the
person who has thus taken possession of him appeared to live
entirely upon him, seeing through his eye* and hearing through
his ears so that two individualities were taking part in his every
movement. He asserted that the “ scoundrel ” completely over¬
powered him, making him feel a kind of sloth which he could not
resist. Occasionally he would almost leave him for half a day, and
during that period he was happier, but even then the bad control¬
ling power would keep command of his eye or some other portion
of his body. His head had thus been rendered almost useless for
thinking; if he desired to think upon a special subject, his ideas
would leave him, no matter how earnestly he desired to follow up
the subject. The entire sensations of his persecutor,, such as
pleasure, pain, astonishment, or anything else, were felt by him,
and were expressed by his (George Smith’s) features, the same as
if they had been exhibited on his own “ carcass.” He knew that
George Smith was a better man than himself, therefore he said he
would hold on to him in spite of God or man, and it was terrible to
feel his senses thus dragged down; there was no hope for him but
in the grave. Sometimes, when he was talking, his persecutor
would choke his utterances, and throw his face into contortions, so
that he was made the bane of all society into which he entered,
and he did not care to stay in one place for any length of time,
being so disgusted with himself as to be ashamed to allow himself
to be known. When at sea his sufferings were something terrible;
he was made paralytic occasionally,' so that often he had to “ loaf”
on his shipmates in order to avoid being laid up altogether. They,
not knowing his situation, sometimes treated him with scoffs for
his want of spirits and life. With the least exertion his body would
shake like a leaf, and if he went aloft to furl a sail he was made by
his persecutor to feel sick before he could reach the deck. When
he went on the yard-arm he would be struck by a palsy of fear,
while shadbwy forms were seen by him near the yards. If, when
on shore, he attended a place of worship, he saw the shadowy forms
all over the building until his head became a perfect “furnace
of wretchedness.” He could feel the face and features of the other
man—who was smaller than himself—inside his own. He felt them
as plainly as he did his own hand when he passed the latter across
his forehead. He said that) I should bestow a blessing on him if
I could give him information how to “ get rid of the scoundrel.”
He asked me whether there were no ecclesiastical police or institution
. of any kind which would protect him from the wretch, or whether
he would have to choose between murder, suicide, or life-long de¬
gradation. He added that it would be a Christian duty to release
himfrom this persecution, for he felt more like a walking pillar than
a sensible human being.
On receipt of this letter last Saturday night, I telegraphed to him
to come sffid see me on Monday, and on the same Saturday evening
went to Mr. Ashman, the healing medium, to ask him to try to give
relief. Mr. Ashman was from home, but Mrs. A shman and two of
his assistants promised that somebody from their house should go
to him at the Sailors’ Home on Sunday, and try to relieve him,
because, as I represented, the power about him might try to
prevent him from coming to me on the Monday. I heard nothing
further of the case until George Smith called upon me on Monday.
I then found that upon all subjects he talked rationally enough, so
that if there were any hallucination, it was upon this one point
alone. He gave me the name and address of the man who he said
was haunting him, but I do not publish it, it being desirable to
make further inquiries into the case. The said man lives in
Cheshire, and if any reader of this journal in that county would
inquire privately into the matter, I should be glad to privately tell
him who the alleged individual is. George Smith further told me
that his shipmates were all aware of this case of possession, and
that the captain of the ship, whose name and address he has given
me, and to whom I shall send this narrative, had studied his case
for more than a year, and could corroborate his statements.
On Monday we went to Mr. Ashman’s and found that he was
from home, and would not return till nine o’clock at night. We
accordingly drove off to Mr. Mack’s establishment, and found Mr.
Coates there. He mesmerised George Smith for some time, without
producing any practical result. Mr. Coates told me his impression
was that it was a case of hallucination, and that spiritual possession
had nothing to do with it. After leaving Mr. Coates, I asked
George Smith what the being haunting him thought of the mes¬
meric treatment. He replied that he was trying to make him
laugh all the time, but it had no effect upon him in the middle of all
his serious trouble.
In the evening we went to Mr. Ashman’s again, and he said that
he was too busy to deal with the case. I asked him whether we
should go away again, and he said “ Nothat we had better wait
a little, and he would see whether he could dp anything or not.
After a time there was a short sitting at the table, and Mr. Ashman
and his assistant mesmerised George Smith, without producing any
effect. Mr. Ashman then told him that he was in a low nervous
state, made worse by smoking and drinking; if he would ptomise
to give up both- these practices, to take plenty of exercise in the
open air, and to live chiefly on bread and milk and very little meat,
ho would take up the case, and he might come there to be treated
twice a week, free. George Smith said that sometimes he had drunk
as much as a pint of rum in a day, but that he had never been in¬
toxicated in his life. He further alleged that the case he had stated
was real, and that Mr. Ashman’s remarks were not applicable, so
he felt that the proposed treatment would be useless. Mr. Ashman
said that it was only his imagination; he had fallen into a low
nervous state, fostered by drink and tobacco, in addition to which
he might, or might not, be under the psychological influence of
another man, he could not say for certain about that.
Afterwards George Smith gave me permission to publish the
case, and with it medical men who are acquainted with Spiritualism
are the most competent to deal, since they can consider it from two
points of view, whilst my experience is limited to subjects con¬
nected with Spiritualistic phenomena. In some cases, as in that of
Sapia Padalino, of Naples, (who, to the regret of everybody, was
beyond the reach of a healing medium,) bad spirits have sometimes
taken absolute possession of individuals, destroyed their indi¬
viduality, and led them into bad courses without their being able
to tell their sufferings, or to explain in what way they are in the
power of an invisible being; therefore if George Smith’s is not a
case of hallucination, but of possession, it should be intensely in¬
teresting to all Spiritualists, because he is able to tell how the spirit
is trying to destroy his individuality. He says that while his per¬
secutor is thinking his brain is chiefly disturbed, but that when his
tormentor is in a passive state, then he has more control over his
features and his body, and less over his brain.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night a Council meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists was held at its rooms, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.G., under the presidency of Mr.
Alexander CaJder. The other members present were Mr. Martin
R. Smith, Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. George King, Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, Miss Houghton, Mr. and Miss Withall, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. J.
J. Morse, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, and Mr. Freeman.
Mr. Martin Smith said that before the ordinary business of the
Council began, he wished to state that he had called at the Associa¬
tion rooms last Saturday and found Miss Kislingbury ill from
overwork during the Conference week, so that she was scarcely
able to make preparations for the business of that Council meeting.
She had been working from ten in the morning until eleven at night.
He saw that she was so unwell that he asked her to go away at
once, thereby incurring a great responsibility, for he knew that
he had no more right to do so than any other member of the Associa¬
tion, still he thought that it was necessary. He had attended that
evening in order to do her duties for her as well as he could.
(Applause.)
The Chairman said that he thought that he expressed the opinion
of the Council as well as his own that they were much obliged to
Mr. Smith for the generous way in which he had acted, that
no apology was necessary on his part, and that they felt sympathy
for the secretary. (Applause.) , .
The minutes of the last meeting were then read and confirmed.
NEW MEMBERS.
Seventeen new nfiembers were then elected, amongst them the
barrister who recently left England for the special purpose of test¬
ing the genuineness of the manifestations through the Eddy
Brothers. • Mr. Barber, one of. the most energetic and respected
workers in connection with Spiritualism in North London, was also
elected a member. There were no resignations.
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 12, 1875
Dr. Nehrer, of Eperies, Hungary, 'was then elected a honorary
member of the Association.
FINANCE COMMITTEE.
The report of the Finance Committee set forth.that the balance
in hand on the 31st of October last was £60 9s. 2d. It recommended
payments amounting to £43 14s., leaving outstanding liabilities
to the amount of £5. It further set forth that more than £25
had been received since the foregoing account had been made up.
Letters from Mr. Partridge and Miss Houghton were read.
KETTJRN OF MB. JOY TO ENGLAND.
It was announced that a telegram had been received from Mr.
Algernon J oy, honorary secretary to the National Association of
Spiritualists, to the effect that he would set sail last Friday from
Boston on his way home. He may consequently be expected in
London about Wednesday next.
• A letter from Dr. Speer was read, saying that the Association
should not endorse the remarks alleged by some of the newspapers
to have been made by a speaker at the last Conference of Spirit¬
ualists.
The secretary was instructed to inform Dr. Speer that the
Council was not responsible for any individual opinions expressed
by anybody.
Mr. Everitt said that one or two expressions had been made
which met with the disapproval of nearly everybody present, and it
was unfortunate that they had been specially seized upon by the
newspapers.
Mr. George King said that even if the Association should appoint
any lecturers^of its own it could not be rooponsible for what
they said.
A letter from Mr. Ashton was read requesting a loan of pictures,
which Vas granted.
An announcement was tuade that Dr. Sexton, Mr. S. C. Hall, Dr.
Cargill, and Mr. Martheze had presented certain books to the Associa¬
tion, and a vote of thanks was returned for them.
The Bazaar Committee recommended that the articles unsold at
the last bazaar, should be exhibited on sale at the next soiree, and
during the two or three following days. This was agreed to.
MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH DR. MONCK’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that just before the Council met two
letters had been received, one from Mr. Colley, and another from
Dr. Monck, relating to circumstances in connection with the latter,
that hftd taken place in the Isle of Wight, asking for sympathy and
practical assistance from the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Dr. Monck had been giving seances in the Isle of Wight
and in Portsmouth, where the chief newspapers had given favour¬
able notices of them, describing physical manifestations which were
declared to have taken place while both his hands were held. At the
close of one of the seances two gentlemen, who were supposed to have
held his hands all the time, suspected that they had held one only
while he played tricks with the other, and spoke severely to that
effect. Dr. Monck accordingly challenged them to hold a test
seance with him in a room of their own choosing. He wanted some
friend or Spiritualist to be present, because these two men were avowed
enemies; yet he was unwise enough to sit with them alone, so that
nobody could criticise their assertions, which was a great error on
his part. They held his hands, struck lights at unexpected times,
and were unable to find anything but a piece of string a yard long
in another part of the room, which they said explained the whole
thing, and they threatened to try the whole case at law. Dr.
Monck said that he wished to prosecute them for libel. Such
was the case. He (Mr. Rogers) did not think it was a matter
the Association could take up. Dr. Monck appealed to them as
“ fellow-members,” but he (Mr. Rogers) did not know till a few
minutes ago, and on looking through the books, that Dr. Monck
was a member at all; he had never put in an appearance at any of
the meetings of the Association, or at its rooms, neither had he
written it a single letter of any kind since he had been elected, but
writes for the first time when he wishes for aid for himself. He
therefore thought that it should go forth that they, as an Associa¬
tion, knew nothing at all about Dr. Monck or his manifestations,
though some of their individual members had witnessed them;
indeed, he (Mr. Rogers) believed from what he had read that Dr.
Monck was one of the best physical mediums in the country, but he
thought that he had been unwise to sit under such unfair condi¬
tions. Again, he thought that mediums should not be so sensitive
to what the world says. In the articles in two newspapers con¬
taining the charge of which Dr. Monck complained, so mueh
was narrated which was evidently beyond his power to do,
that he had altogether the best of it in the eyes of any impartial
reader. He thought that the Association should express its
sympathy with Dr. Monck, and say that in the present
state of its growth, it had not the means to defend public
mediums against charges, should it be called upon to do so.
Public action of this kind, if desirable, depended upon th6 rapid
accession of new members. Dr. Monck ought to be satisfied with
the testimony of such men as Mr. Colley, Curate of Portsmouth,
and as the officers of H.M.S. Monarch, which would counteract all
that could be said by two comparatively unknown persons.
Mr. George King said that he thought that under any circum¬
stances the Association should not. undertake a prosecution; it
should only undertake a defence, if necessary. He knew nothing,
though, of the present case.
The following resolution was then passed : “ That the secretary
be instructed to write a letter to Dr. Monck, expressing sympathy
with him under the circumstances related in'his letter of the 8th of
November, but explaining to him that assistance, in the shape of
pecuniary aid towards the expenses of prosecuting his accusers,
cannot be rendered by the Association.”
PROVINCIAL WORK OF THE ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Everitt suggested that if Mr. Morse should make a lecturing
tour in the provinces, partly to make known the aims and objects of
the Association, it should give assistance in the way of expenses.
Mr. Rogers said that he intended to suggest something ot the
kind; he thought it began to be a very serious matter that some
kind of work should shortly be begun in the provinces. The
Association could not help itself; it was true that it had done nothing
in this direction hitherto, but the friends in the country did not
know of the hard work that it had ha<l to consolidate itself so
thoroughly and so completely in the metropolis, but the work had.
produced an immense effect upon the London public. It caused
people to begin to speak of the movement with more respect, and
each member, when speaking to strangers to Spiritualism on the
subject, felt that he had all the moral power of the Association to
support him. He had always stated his views, when necessary,
without reserve to anybody, although he hover forced them upon
unwilling ears, and this had led the directors of an establish¬
ment with which he was once connected to seriously consider
whether his being a Spiritualist did not unfit him for the
position which ho had held for twenty years, although they had
no other complaint against him. . They did this merely in
deference to popular feeling against Spiritualism. Things were
changed in this respect. Not only was there much less antag¬
onism out of doors, but he felt he had the whole moral power of the
Association at his back; indeed, the Association had immense weight
in London, as he knew from experience. The country friends did
not know how much had been done in this way, so they thought it was
time there was something done for the provinces, and he thought so
too, even if a special fund had to be created for the purpose. Any¬
thing he had to contribute towards the spreading of Spiritualism he
would prefer to give to the special purpose now under considera¬
tion. He should like to get Mr. Morse to represent the Association
in the country. He also thought that popular fly-sheets should be
printed to be given away freely.
Mr. Martin Smith thoroughly agreed that it was nearly time to do
something for friends in the provinces. The present expenses of
the Association were about £500 a-year, and the income to meet
them, including the guarantee fund, £550 a year, so that it had not
much funds for any new work. Still, the members were increasing
fast, so that, he hoped they would soon be able to do more than at
present. Perhaps they might do well to appoint a committee to
consider what could be done in the provinces, and the committee
could be instructed to recommend a course to the Council which
would not involve an expenditure of more than forty or fifty pounds.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that the poorer Spiritualists in the provinces
had no reliable information about the National Association.
Leaflets should be printed giving the required information, and ho
would do what he could to distribute them. There were many
little towns in Yorkshire and Lancashire that got up public
meetings out of love, but afterwards always (had a little balance
on the wrong side of the ledger, varying from one to three pounds,
sometimes as much as five pounds. He thought that they might
be invited to correspond with the Association as to their intended
meetings, and send in estimates, so that if the Association should
expend any funds in the matter, they should know exactly in what
direction. If he were to work for the Association, he should like to
do so in a formal way, as its representative, because then his
utterances would carry more weight than if he expressed merely
his individual opinion. He thought that not only would local
societies wish to work in-harmony with the Association, but that
by its aid, societies might be formed where none had hitherto
existed.
Mr. Bennett said that it might make its objects known in the pro¬
vinces by means of deputations, who could accompany Mr. Morse ;
the said deputations might visit the provinces to hold conferences
with their friends there.
Mr. Morse said that the Liverpool Psychological Society held its
annual meeting on the first Wednesday in January; he should be
glad to do anything he could there on behalf of the National
Association.
Mr. R. Pearce said that if local secretaries were appointed it
would do good, for they could give information about what was
taking place in the provinces, and make arrangements for the recep¬
tion of deputations. He thought that Mr. Rhodes would be a good
one for Newcastle.
The Chairman said he thought that .a committee should bo
appointed, and that a suggestion made by Mr. Harrison should bo
adopted, namely, that those members of the Association who had
not subscribed large sums up to the present time, and who in many
instances could not afford to do so, and did not caro to put their
names down for small sums, in lists made up chiefly of largo
amounts, would be very glad to make up this fund among them¬
selves in small subscriptions, if only to show sympathy and fellow-
THE SPIKITUALIST.
237
Nov. 12, 1875.
feeling with those who had borne the greatest financial burdens.
He thought that the committee should try to get what funds they
could, and then bring a well-considered scheme for doing work in
the provinces before the next meeting of the Council, in December.
This was agreed to. Messrs. Pearce, Morse, Rogers, Withall,
Bennett, and Everitt were appointed a committee for the purpose.
A vote" of thanks by the Council was passed to the readers of
papers and others who had assisted in the Conference.
SHALL THE ASSOCIATION UNDERTAKE PUBLISHING ?
Mr. Everitt said that as more assistance to the secretary had been
spoken of, ho thought that a boy should be employed at from 7s. 6d.
to 10s. per week, and a bookstall established in the Reading Room,
where ho could sell books and papers and assist the secretary. The
profit on sales would cover the expenses of the boy, and form a
nucleus of a business which would help the work of the organisa¬
tion, and which he thought would defray nearly all its internal ex¬
penses.
Mr. Martin Smith said that such a step would require capital to
begin with.
Mr. Everitt said they might begin only in a small way at first, and
permit the business to grow.
Mr. Martin Smith said that he would not wish private interests to
interfere with the welfare of the Association, but Mr. Harrison had
just started on the premises what Mr. Everitt suggested the
Association should start, and he was sure that there was not sufficient
business for two such libraries,indeed not enough for one.
Mr. Harrison remarked that it was the public duty of the Council
to. look after the public welfare of the Association, and not that of
any private individual. He should be sorry to see anything with
wmcn he was connected in the slightest degree interfering with the
interests of the Association.
The proceedings then closed.
RELIABLE INFORMATION ABOUT THE MEDIUMSHIP
OF THE EDDY BROTHERS AND SISTER.
A WITCH AND A PRINCE—SPIRIT IDENTITY—JEALOUSY OP THE
EDDY BROTHERS ABOUT THE MEDIUMSHIP OP THEIR SISTER—
TEST MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH MRS. HUNTOON’S MEDIUMSHIP
We have received the following interesting narrative from the
English barrister who recently went to the United States for the
special purpose of witnessing the manifestations through the me-
diumship of the Eddy Brothers at Chittenden, Vermont, and who
returned to London a few days ago :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—The recent insertion in The Spintualist of a letter of mine
which appeared in an American newspaper, giving an account of
the materialisations through Mrs. Huntoon, leads me to think that,
jossibly, a further communication respecting that medium, the
ilddys, and others in America to whom I owe my conversion to
Spiritualism, may be acceptable to your readers. As a psychologi¬
cal study, a residence of some weeks in the society of mediums,
and in the observation of their relations with the spirits manifesting
through them, is as interesting as it is, for the most part, morally
unedifying. It would bo easy to draw a ludicrous picture of my
Chittenden experiences—one which, without being a caricature,
would effectually prevent a sceptic from even listening to evidence
that the phenomena are gemline. The “ Witch of the Mountains ”
(a tall woman with a strident voice, who claims to be the daughter
of Belshazzar, King of Babylon, and the medium through whom
the mysterious hand wrote the words upon the wall), denouncing
the rich as “ them as has the dollarsthe “ Prince, her brother,
who says that, as a spirit, he actually wrote the words, also betraying
by his speech a Chittenden education in the English language;
“ Mrs. Eaton,” with her spiteful, sometimes slanderous, inuendoes
and sour jokes; “ Mr. Brown’s ” maudlin farewells and exhortations
to a moral life—their bombastic orations, their tawdry sentiments,
their significant denunciations of the close-fisted public, all seem
merely to reflect the individuality and to express the language of vul¬
gar, cunning, and illiterate people. These things, to inexperienced
readers, unacquainted with the law of association’, appear, when
reported, to raise an adverse presumption which no amount of
evidence can rebut. And it is as well that sceptics should under¬
stand that investigators who have, nevertheless, become convinced,
have thoroughly appreciated the force of that presumption. Those
who have studied the evidence, and not merely stared at the phe¬
nomena with scorn or gaping credulity, are aware that it is not
spirit materialisation, but spirit identity that is discredited. This,
I believe, has long been the recognised issue among your readers,
and upon this point my own experiences at Chittenden may be of
some interest.
I have seen only one case in which the recognition of a spirit
friend was apparently genuine^ and was at all events, I should say,
free from the possibility of mistake. That was in a case which has
been repeatedly recorded. Mr. Pritchard, a wealthy resident of
Albany, as I am told, and of thorough respectability, has passed
much time at Chittenden, and, consequently, it is said, the condi¬
tions have become more favourable to the materialisation of his
friends than to that of other spirits who have had, I suppose, less
practice. He is, therefore, allowed privileges of approach which
cannot be granted to others. The theory is, that the mesmeric
influence of our bodies when brought close to a weakly mate¬
rialised spirit disturbs the conditions, though a simpler explanation
is to be found in the distrust of comparative strangers. How¬
ever that may be, Mr. Pritchard, and his sister, Mrs. Packard,
have on two different occasions while I was at Chittenden been
invited up to the platform, have met face to face at the door of the
cabinet a figure purporting to be their mother, and have conducted
her, arm in arm, to the railing, and introduced her to the circle.
They afterwards assured us that they recognised her, as indeed
they must, if at all, with absolute distinctness. Bad as the light
was, I think I could have undertaken to recognise any friend of
mine from the railing, three and a half feet from the cabinet door,
or even further off. And besides the fact that this lady and gentle¬
man were in immediate proximity to the apparition, it must be re¬
membered that they have had the same opportunity of close scrutiny
on many other occasions, and can therefore hardly be mistaken now.
But the usual method, when the figure emerged from the cabinet,
was for the visitors to ask by turns, “ Is it for me ?” the fortunate
individual being indicated i»y raps. Then followed the question,
“Is it John? is it Thomas? is it Mary?” &c., raps being given
when the right name was suggested. There was very little satis¬
faction in this, and I had prepared a trap for any spirit that might
favour me with a visit. None, however, came for me at the fifteen
seances I attended at the Eddys, and indeed I was more intent on
disposing of the question of personation by the medium than on
the look out for spirit friends. For this purpose I required one of
three tests: fl) a sight of the medium and of a spirit-form at once;
(2) two spirit-forms together; (3) a single, moving well-defined
child figure outside the curtain. Neither of these was I once
fortunate enough to obtain, though Ool. Olcott testifies to the
frequency of the two latter.. In short, personation, though from
the great variety of figures of apparently distinct individuality and
dress, highly improbable, was not demonstrably impossible.
It was not a little provoking to bo dependent upon vigilant,
difficult, and fallible observations in a wretched light for a result
after all doubtful, when some small consideration on the part of the
brothers for the honest doubts of their visitors might have placed
their own integrity and the genuineness of the manifestations
beyond the possibility of dispute. They were not, of course,- to
blame if the power was insufficient to afford the tests suggested
above, but if they suffered the window of the cabinet to be always
secured as Col. Olcott secured it, and also consented to William
being searched on quitting tho cabinet, the fact would bo established
that the many different costumes displayed during the seances are
not fraudulently introduced. On the very last occasion on which I
was present this latter test was condescendingly submitted to, and
Dr. Miller, a gentleman well known in connection with Spiritualism
in New York, was invited to go upon the platform and search the
medium. He did so thoroughly, in view of us all, and loud were
the expressions of gratification at what was proclaimed to be a
conclusive test. I, however/suggested that if it was to be of any
value, Dr. Miller ought to satisfy himself that the window of the
cabinet was so secured that no costumes used during the seance
could have been thrown out of it, and I mentioned the fact that
when I last examined the cabinet, a week before, two pieces of
adhesive paper were attached in such positions that the window
could not be opened without tearing or removing them. This
suggestion found little favour, but I took the trouble to
look for myself when the circle had broken up. One of
the papers had been torn across where it passed from
the woodwork of the window to the frame, the other was
untorn, but adhering loosely, as though it had been removed
and carelessly replaced. This fact was, however, not really very
suspicious; the papers had been surreptitiously placed there three
weeks before by a man who, as he afterwards told me, had been
turned out of the house next morning for his pains. They had been
contemptuously allowed to remain, and I had examined them nearly
every morning within a,week of the occasion referred to. But I
was told that in tho meantime the "window had been opened, as
would very probably be the ease, in the daytime for the purpose of
airing the cabinet. Very probably one piece of paper would be re¬
moved for this purpose, and the other, which was torn, not have
been noticed, tho first being again hastily stuck on without any
intention to deceive. I only mention it at all as illustrating the
very slovenly way in which investigators, who are only too anxious
to be convinced, will accept tests which are altogether insufficient.
But at this time, the question whether William Eddy personated
his ghosts or not had become with me of comparatively slight
interest. A fortnight before, while painfully groping my way to
some settled opinion on this same question, I heard for the first time
of Mary Huntoon, a sister of tho Eddys, living hardly more than
a stone’s throw from their house. I heard at the same time that she
was under the ban of her brothers, who would resent.iby instant dis¬
missal from their house any attempt by their guests to seek in her
test mediumship the satisfaction they themselves either could not,
or would not, condescend to afford. At the same time I was given
to understand that certain of the visitors were wont, with great
secrecy and precaution, to slip out of the house after tho circles and
repair for the clandestine gratification of their guilty curiosity to the
proscribed cottage. This method of proceeding not exactly suiting
me, I sent my portmanteau into Rutland on the following day, and
238
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 12, 1875.
after paying Horatio Eddy what I owed him, and a trifle besides,
informed him that I was leaving him for the purpose of attending
his sister’s circles, which, I understood, I should not be allowed to
do while boarding with him and his brother. Horatio, however, at
once gave me permission to attend both circles, afterwards, I be¬
lieve, extending it to others, and I continued to do so during nearly
the rest of my stay in the neighbourhood.
I cannot, however, credit the brothers on this account with any
indifference to the rivalry of the sister, for on the second night after
this we had a furious tirade from the “ Witch of the Mountains”
against mediums who professed to get materialisations while sitting
themselves in the light, pronouncing it, from personal experience
of some thousands of years, to be impossible. This, as your
readers are aware, is the distinguishing feature of Mrs. Huntoon’s
mediumship, and on that very night I, in company with Dr. Miller,
held the test seance with her with the result I have already des¬
cribed. Accordingly, on the following evening “ Mrs. Eaton ”
found it discreet to modify the rash assertion of her royal and
imperious colleague, admitting that the thing was “ possible,” but
very pointedly insinuating charges of fraud against her medium’s
sister and rival. Rival, indeed, to the Eddys, poor Mrs. Huntoon
can hardly be called. At Chittenden they have it all their own
way. The Huntoons are very poor; she had no visitors from
Rutland on her own account, and is dependent for the few dollars
she makes by her mediumship on the chance visits of neighbouring
families (often too poor to pay), and of a few adventurous guests
at the Eddys. Her brothers threaten her, slander her, and even deny
that she is their sister. This, at least, is her account, and perhaps
it should be taken cum grano sails.
Had I deferred the publication of my letter to the Rutland Globe
for a few days longer I could have given far more wonderful par¬
ticulars of her powers as a test medium than are to bo found in it.
Of the three tests I sought in vain at the Eddys, I have in that
letter noticed only one as having been afforded by Mrs. Huntoon.
Since then I not only had further and greater satisfaction while
she sat outside, but have seen two spirits at once (counting faces,
as many as three) after she had gone behind the curtain. On one
occasion a boy in theatrical costume came out and danced at our
very feet, while at the same time, the figure of an elderly man stood
outside the curtain and played the fiddle to his dancing. This was
witnessed also by Dr.‘Miller. My account of Mrs. Huntoon
brought Col. Olcott again to Rutland, and we drove over together
to* Chittenden. The great investigator went carefully over the
whole of the little cottage, taking measurements and examining the
place with his well-known shrewdness and eye for the possibilities
of fraud. He agreed with me that confederacy, with the precau¬
tions we took, and the observations we made, was utterly out of
the question, and I confess to considerable anxiety as we took our
seats that the results should justify me in having brought him
from New York. As long as the medium sat outside we got only
faces, whereat I was somewhat disappointed, as my past experi¬
ence had given a full length figure well before the curtain. But
before the sitting was over we had as good a test as any
ever afforded. Col. Olcott sat only six feet from the curtain,
and the light was rather better than usual. By and by the
curtain was pushed aside, and a man, in an ordinary dark suit of
clothes, stepped in front of it. He was of middle height, and I
could see the features with sufficient distinctness to be able to say
positively that they were not the medium’s or those of a mask. *To
remove all doubt, immediately he retired Col. Olcott called to the
medium to come out. Apparently she did not hear or understand
him, for there was some delay, and as this might have been used to
put off the disguise, Col. Olcott told her to remain, but the next
time the figure came out to put out her arm at the other side of the
curtain. Almost immediately the ghost reappeared, and hardly
was he well before us than Mrs. Huntoon rushed out and stood at
his side, the two retiring together after a few seconds. Again, at
Col. Olcott’s request, whenever a face or form showed itself the
curtain at Mrs. Huntoon’s side of the doorway was raised, and
showed us the medium quietly seated. As many as three faces
sometimes appeared simultaneously, different musical instruments
were played together, and a chorus of Indian war-whoops wound
up the performance, the medium running out, half laughing, half in
fright, complaining that “they” had seized her by the hair, and
that she thought she was going to be scalped. 1 examined the
mosquito curtain outside the window, and found it quite intact,
and, of course, we again searched the room. It is a matter for
regret that Col. Olcott cannot secure the services of this medium
for the St. Petersburg investigation. She is confident of her
powers, courageous and obliging in the matter of tests, sensible and
good-humoured. But she has a husband and four little children;
and though good mediums will doubtless make large profits in the
Russian capital, no remuneration beyond expenses can, I under¬
stand, be guaranteed.
At Mrs. Huntoon’s I was much perplexed by the question of
spirit identity. On the very first evening I was at her house a face
appeared and turned eagerly to me. I asked, with assumed
anxiety and emotion, “ if it was J ames Mansfield ?” — a name
belonging to no one I ever knew. But the head was impatiently
shaken, and a name—that of a brother whom I have lost for many
years—was articulated. It was a Christian name, and by no means
an uncommon one ; still, no one, I believe, in America knew of my
brother or his name. Moreover, the head had on a uniform cap of
some sort, and my brother was an officer in the Navy. On the
following night it appeared again repeatedly, and I asked for the J
name of my brother’s last ship. An effort appeared to be made,
but no articulate sound resulted. The “ control” told me that the
spirit could not get power to speak. On the six succeeding nights
I tried to get this test. I gave the alphabet, but for several times no
rap responded. At last my persistent determination not to bo
satisfied without the test I had imposed prevailed—to this extent
that the spirit rapped, and at the icrong letter—a letter no whore near
the right one. Next night it tried another letter, also wrong, and
then I informed it that whoever or whatever else it might be, it
certainly was not my brother. The next night it did not come.
Over a dozen spirits claimed kinship or friendship with me. In one
case I fancied a resemblance, and suggested a name, which was
assented to. I asked that the number of years since death might
be rapped out, and the right number—seven—was given. I asked
for her husband’s name; it was not even attempted. These were
the test cases. The identity of the rest may be judged of from the
following conversation with one of them, the answers being given
by raps: “Are you a relative?” “Yes.” “Brother?” “No."
“ First cousin ?” “ Yes." “ Did I know you very well ?” Emphatic
assent. “ Was your name M ?’’(giving my own. Loud raps for
yes. “ Thank you ; good evening; 1 never had a first cousin of my
on n name whom I knew at all.” Of course we had a selection of
notorieties. Colonel Ellsworth (spelt “ Elmenesworth ”) the first
victim of the civil war, came and announced himself as my
guardian spirit. “ Wilkes Booth,” the assassin of Lincoln, gave us,
viv& voce, an account of the motives of his act, and of his reconcili¬
ation with the late President in the other world. Two friends of
Dr. Miller, one, who materialised at full length, purporting to be his
brother ; the other Dr. Thompson, a late physician of New York,
came more frequently than any of the others; and I got to be so
familiar with the features of “ Dr. Thompson,” that I could name
him as soon as he appeared. Dr. Miller, at all events, ought to be
in no doubt about them, but he didn’t seem very positive, though
apparently believing in their identity. In one case, however, he had
a good test. An bid lady announced herself as his grandmother,
alid when he could not recognise her, made a gesture as of taking
snuff. This, he said, was a favourite indulgence of his grand¬
mother.
I had long conversations with the “control,” who seemed a
sensible fellow, and whose voice was quite unlike the medium’s.*
I asked him if he believed in the identity of the spirits. “ Well,
sir,” he replied, “ you see I cannot tell. In the case of your brother
I do believe. Spirits were crowding up to materialise, and rapped
for him.” Mrs. Huntoon, however, had a decided opinion on the
subject, as she told me that, when sitting outside, but close to the
curtain, she had observed the same spirit come several times under
different names. On the whole, I came to the conclusion that they
were, one and all, either the Diakkas of Mr. Andrew Jackson Davis,
or the “ elementaries” of the occultists.
Before leaving we asked the control if there would be any objec¬
tion to the application of the shooting tost, as was done at -St.
Louis. He replied that there would be none, provided the medium
was rested—did no work and gave no seances—for a couple of days
beforehand. I believe Col. Olcott has some notion of having this
performance repeated with Mrs. Huntoon’s spirits at the Cooper
Hospital, New York.
Now, sir, I do not of course suppose that such a narrative as the
above would seriously perplex a sceptic, even if he knew me to be
writing in perfect good faith and describing with scrupulous
accuracy. He might, perhaps, with the view of showing that pos¬
sibly the figures were lay figures, and the faces masks, be disposed
to question any assertion to the contrary, considering the admit¬
tedly bad light in which they were seen. But he would remember
that they came out on many occasions when the medium was
not behind the curtain to project them or to work the imagined
machinery. And as, moreover, he could not, upon this supposi¬
tion, explain the voice within the room accompanying the medium
while she sang outside, nor the fiddle playing with the performer
visible, while the boy (whom of course he would say—and I could
not contradict him with' certainty—was Mrs. Huntoon) was danc¬
ing, he would doubtless fall back on the theory of an accomplice.
Our careful examination of the room would not in the least discon¬
cert him. Somewhere or other in that floor—the boards of which
1 examined so often and with such painful minuteness—there was
a trap door which escaped my observation. He would hardly sus¬
pect the plastered walls—both sides of which 1 inspected, and the
thickness of which I took—or the ceiling, after the examination of
the unfinished room above. The window, too, he would have to
give up. But let that same sceptic make for himself in that room
and house the same examination that I made—let him trace the un¬
broken grain of the boards, satisfy himself that they were con¬
tinuous beneath'the partition from the kitchen, mark the undis¬
turbed dust in the interstices of their junctions, attempt to pass his
penknife between them, stamp all over them to discover the hollow
place, survey them by broad daylight and by lamplight, and that
half a dozen times, and I believe he would come away with my
conviction, just as I went with his doubts. Moreover, on one
occasion, the musical instruments began to play immediately after
I left the room to take my-seat, the medium being already in her
chair outside. The accomplice must have been uncommonly
“ spry.” One theory of course remains—it was that of a barber’s
boy at Rutland, who had been reading my letter in the local paper:
“ Guess you were all psychologised!”
* He did not speak through her, but independently; sometimes, though
only in a whisper, when she was before the curtain.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
239
Nov. 12, 1875.
Before and after I was at Chittenden I had sennet* with Dr.
Slade at New York. He is probably the best test medium for
direct writing and physical manifestations in the world, and I
should like to describe what I witnessed with him in broad day and
gaslight. But I have already trespassed at too great a length upon
your space. On some future occasion I may ask your permission
to call attention to the new 11 Theosophical Society,” its relation to
Spiritualism and to the occult sciences, which it has been established
to cultivate and promote. 0. C. M.
London, Nov. 4th.
WINTER MEETINGS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
It has already been announced in these columns that the Council
of the National Association has arranged that meetings of the mem¬
bers of the Association shall be held during the winter months, for
the. purpose of the reading and discussion of papers on Spirit¬
ualism and kindred topics. It is intended that, as far as possible,
the papers shall deal with facts and the interpretation of facts,
and that unprovable speculations shall as much as possible be
avoided.
The meetings will be held at the rooms of the Association, and
will commence on the 22nd inst., at eight o’clock. They will take
place fortnightly till Christmas, and afterwards as may be found
convenient.
Friends who intend to read or supply papers should therefore
send them in without delay to the Secretary, at 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., and, as a general rule, make their
communications of such a length that they shall not occupy more
than twenty minutes or a quarter of an hour in the reading.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
A meeting of the Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism was held last Tuesday evening at 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E., Mr. R. P. Tredweu in the chair.
Votes of thanks were accorded to Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Mr. E.
W. Wallis, Mr. William Eglington, and Mrs. Bassett, for their kind
attendance at recent seances.
The Anniversary Meeting Committee was instructed to arrange
for the fifth anniversary at the rooms of the Association on the 23rd
instant, and to make preparations for a public soiree and ball later
on.
Mr. Thomas Blyton reported the proceedings at the 1875 Con¬
ference of Spiritualists.
An offer from the Rev. F. R. Young fhon. member) to read a
paper on the last Tuesday evening in February next was accepted
with thanks.
Messrs. Edwin Dottridge and Richard Pearce were unanimously
elected ordinary members; and a notice of resignation from Mr. It.
M. Hobbs was accepted with regret.
A letter was read from the hon. secretary to the Brixton Psycho¬
logical Society reciprocating the privilege of members being per¬
mitted to attend ordinary meetings.
The Secretary read a letter from Dr. Sexton, offering a paper upon
psychological phenomena recognized outside of what is known as
Spiritualism, which was accepted with thanks.
At the ordinary weekly seance held the same evening, there were
present—Mrs. C. E. Bassett, the well-known medium; Mr. J.
Coates, member of the Liverpool Psychological Society; Miss
Corner, Mr. aud Mrs. J. R. Cope, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. J. Tozeland,
Miss Nina Corner, Mr. and Mrs. R. Cocker, Mr. Thos. Wilks, Mr.
Thos. Blyton, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Mr. R. P. Tredwen, Mrs.
Amelia Corner, Captain James, Mr. Oh as. Lee, and Mrs. Richard
Pearce. After the seance had been opened by a reading from Scrip¬
ture and singing, the order of the sitters was arranged by raps,
Captain James being placed to the right hand of Mrs. Bassett, and
Mr. J. Coates to the left hand. All hands were then joined, the
light extinguished, and a few versos sung by the circle. Captain
James remarked that an icy cold hand kept time to the singing by
patting his head, while Mr. Charles Lee, who sat next to him, also
felt the hand. The well-known voices of the spirits of “James
Lombard ” and “ Charles Dallman ” were heard during the sitting.
After the lamps had been relit, Mr. J. Coates was entranced, and
spoke under several distinct controls, one of which purported to
be that of “ Valentine Greatrakes,” the celebrated healer.
A vote of thanks to Mrs. Bassett for her attendance was pro¬
posed by Mr. J. Tozeland, seconded by Captain James, and carried
unanimously.
Mr. J. Coates was requested to convey to the Liverpool Society
and friends the kind greetings and good wishes of the Dalston
Association, and the meeting broke up.
THE INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUALISM AT ST.
PETERSBURG UNIVERSITY.
Prince Wittgenstein informs us that the University
at St. Petersburg is considering the question of enlarging
the scope of its operations in relation to Spiritualism,
and contemplates appointing delegates from among its
members to study the rise and progress of the move¬
ment from its beginning, and to decide whether in
their opinion it should take rank as a science, Prince
Paskewicz, Prince Gagarin, and others, are interesting
themselves in the inquiry, for the purposes of which
powerful mediums are needed at St. Petersburg. We
have already published how the action of Dr. Carpenter,
Professor Tyndall, and others, has raised a wide-spread
prejudice against scientific men among Spiritualists and
mediums; the latter are likely to be more pliable in
the matter, if they can get some guarantee from the
University of fairer treatment than their predecessors
at similar so-called “ investigations.” When Harvard
University obtained strong positive results, it was
afraid to publish them, although previously it had
promised to do so.
Any powerful physical mediums who wish to go to
St. Petersburg should communicate with us without
delay.
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH AFRICA.
Yesterday the South African mail brought the
latest news to us about Spiritualism in Cape Town, and
it seems that the interest in the subject has been
increased there, because the spirits predicted -an
accident upon the Wellington race-course, and it after¬
wards took place. An anonymous letter in the Cape
Town Standard of Oct. 14th, says :—“ I notice in one
of the papers that Dean Clarke said on Sunday, 3rd
instant, that the accident on the race-course had been
predicted to several gentlemen a month previously from
the ‘ spirit ’ world. Since they are so favoured above
us by the spirits, the Dean may still earn some money
if he could tell us who the culprit is that set fire to
Mr. Schwartz’s house on Saturday, 2nd instant, which
caused such great damage here. The magistrate offers
a reward of £50 to the informer, and the directors of
the Protecteur £200. Really a nice little amount to
be devoted to the English Church Sustentation Fund.
I can see no harm in the spirits being invoked to
advantage, as is done with the elements. Double
advantage will be reaped from this affair. Dean
Clarke will then get £250 for his Agathos Club, and
will earn the eternal gratitude of Wellington.”
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—Dr. Sexton
having been suddenly taken very unwell, and being confined to his
room, Mr. F. R. Young kindly occupied his place at Cavendish
Rooms on Sunday last. He delivered two discourses, that in the
morning being on “ The Miracles of Christ,” and that in the evening
on the.“ Various Ways in which Christians Hinder the Gespel of
Christ.” Both discourses were listened to with attention, although
some disappointment was experienced in the evening, many persons
haring been drawn to the Cavendish Rooms solely by the announce¬
ment that Dr. Sexton would give “ A Reply to Professor Tyndall’s
article in the Fortnightly Reoierw." He will, however, if he is suffi¬
ciently restored to health, take up the subject next Sunday evening.
In the morning his subject will be, “ Onward, but whither ?” Any
one may learn whether Dr. Sexton will give these discourses by
looking among the advertisements in the Times on Saturday next;
but, whether he is present or not, two services will be held as
usual, the one ifi the morning at eleven, and the other in the
evening at seven. We regret to hear that up to Wednesday he was
still confined to his bed.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Owing to great pressure of news this week, we are obliged to
defer publication of many communications, including one from
Miss Blackwell, which has already been too long delayed.
240
THE SPIRITUALIST.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES DURING A RECENT
TOUR IN EUROPE.
We have upon request been favoured "with the following extracts
from a private letter from Mr. William Tebb, to a Spiritualist
friend of -his in America:—
EISENACH AND MARTIN LUTHER.
“ My Dear R.,—The plan of a recent visit to the Continent
which I had previously marked out, has been considerably altered
by reason of some experiences of a Spiritualistic character, the
details of which to you, as an observer of super-mundane pheno¬
mena, may not be without interest. ... On the day following our
arrival at Bonn, we took the steamer for KOnigswinter, and
ascended the Drachenfels, from the summit of which is one of the
most charming views on the Rhine. Mrs. Tebb here felt the first
impression to visit that part of Germany particularly associated
with and rendered memorable by the great reformer, Martin Luther,
and this feeling became so strong as to be all but irresistible. . . .
Eisenach is a quaint and ancient town, bordering the northern edge
of the Thuringian Forest. The chief object of attraction is the
castle of Wartburg, the summer residence of the Duke of Saxe
Weimar, which stands on the summit of a wooded height about a
thousand feet above the level of the sea. Martin Luther resided
here in the year 1521, and he devoted himself to translating the
Bible. Some of the rooms of the castle are decorated with great
splendour, and adorned with frescoes by Schwind, illustrating the
life of St. Elizabeth, wife of Landgrave Lewis, and the history of
Wartburg Castle. There is also a valuable collection of
ancient armour, principally of the 12th century. But no room
attracts so much attention as that in which the great reformer lived,
and which remains nearly in the same condition in which he left it.
His bed, the chair on which he Svrote, and the veritable wooden
inkstand which he threw at the devil, with other objects of anti¬
quity associated with his residence, were shown to, and examined by
ns with great interest.
“On the day following our arrival in the town (the 26th August)
while walking down the leading thoroughfare between the railway
station and the central square or market place, my wife was sud¬
denly seized by a spiritual power, which rendered her unable to
proceed. We took refuge in a cafe near by. The waiter had
scarcely left the room, after bringing some refreshment for us, when
Mrs. Tebb became entranced, and, speaking in an energetic and pe¬
remptory tone, said, ‘ I know your plans; these are mine. Leave her
here. Your holiday is to be spent hero, and nowhere else. It has
been made easy for you to reach this place, but if you take her
away difficulties will beset your path.’’ Not liking the dictatorial
manner in which this was said, I interrupted the speaker with the
query, ‘ But what as to* our daughter Florence, who is now on her
way to school at Dresden ? ’ ‘ To learn the wisdom of this world,
which is passing away,’ the spirit answered. This was said with
such demonstrative energy that it awoke the medium, and we
hastened away.
“ When passing through the same street on the following day,my
daughter and I being about a hundred paces ahead, I turned
round to look for my wife, who I supposed was stopping to examine
something in the shop windows, instead of which she was beckon¬
ing us to return to her; we did so, and found her suffering from a
peculiar pain brought on by the effort made to throw off the spirit
control, which had again seized her at precisely the same spot as on
the previous day, and past which spot she was of herself quite
unable to proceed. With the assistance of my daughter we suc¬
ceeded in getting into an open carriage, and after some time the
control left her. That Martin Luther had to do with the seizure of
my wife’s vocal organs was an impression she could not shake off,
and to those familiar with the philosophy of spiritual intercourse it
will seem not improbable that he should desire to return to the spot
where he spent such an eventful portion of his earthly life, and
avail himself of any opportunity of communication. (The diffi¬
culties he predicted were actually experienced by us, and in the
midst of great suffering, while at Stettin, Mrs. Tebb became en¬
tranced by the same spirit, who reminded us of the predictions, and
urged our immediate return to Eisenach.)
“ Leaving Eisenach we passed by Gotha to Erfurt, a fortified town
of 45,000 inhabitants, and again the control was strongly felt,
pressing us to stay there. Nevertheless we kept our seats in the
train, and proceeded on our journey toward Leipsic. Luther resided
at Erfurt several years in the Augustine Monastery, and his cell is
still shown. The building is now converted into an asylum for
destitute children.
THE MADONNA D1 SAN SISTO.
“ The picture gallery of Dresden, one of the finest in Europe,
contains about 2,500 pictures, with valuable specimens of all the
schools of painting, and is the great centre of attraction. Raphael’s
great picture the Madonna di San Sisto which was bought a
century ago for the then unprecedented sum of £9,000, is placed in
a room by itself, and as copies and photographs everywhere abound,
I need not stop to describe it particularly. A striking, and to me
interesting characteristic of it, is that the blue clouds which
surround the various figures are literally composed of hundreds of
minute angelic heads, similar to those frequently observed in
pictures drawn under spirit influence, some specimens of which
are in my possession. Is it not probable that Raphael painted
Nov. 12, 1875.
what he actually saw ? as did Blake, his portraits of historical
personages. Dickens tells us that his books were written from
scenes objectively presented to him, and Mr. G. H. Lewis in the
Fortnightly Review says that this distinguished writer once declared
to him that every word said by his characters was distinctly heard
by him.
THE “ WHITE LADr."
u On the 30th of August we reached Berlin, and on the following
morning visited the royal borough of Potsdam, where we spent the
entire day examining the various pictures, and other objects of
interest. The new palace so called, for it has rather an ancient
appearance, was built by Frederick the Great, and contains about
200 apartments, a magnificent theatre, and a remarkable chamber
called the grotto saloon, the walls of which are entirely covered
with shells, minerals and precious stones arranged in curious and
unique devices. From this palace we proceeded through the park
for about half a mile^south-east to the palatial Florentine structure
known as the Orangery, which is adorned internally with modern
marble sculptures. We had ascended the noble flight of steps.in
front, and while walking on the terrace examining the groups of
statuary and admiring the beautiful gardens, I remarked to my
wife, that I wondered whether this was one of the palaces visited
at intervals by the “ White Lady.” Not, indeed, that it bore the
smallest indication of a ghostly habitation, quite the contrary was
the case, and the remark was rather inopportune. The thought,
however, flashed across my mind, and was put into words, and no
sooner were they uttered than my wife’s wrists were seized by
two invisible hands which with great violence turned her
completely round, causing her to utter an exclamation of fright,
and producing a feeling of faintness. Fearing further violence
from the invisible assailant, we immediately retraced our steps to
the carriage below, and abandoned all idea of viewing the interior
of the edifice. The seizure was accompanied by a burning sensa¬
tion on the wrists, and the shock to the system was felt for some
days. On reaching the hotel at Berlin, about seven in the evening,
I noticed that my wife’s wrists were much inflamed, and found, on
examination, the redness to be an inch wide, extending three parts
round them, having the appearance of being scalded, or subjected
to a poisonous irritant. The appearance was very distinct on our
return home on the 26th September, and was seen by Miss Georgians
Houghton and Miss Shorter, and a month later by Mr. William
White, of Hampstead, and Mr. Andrew Leighton, of Liverpool.
The left wrist, which was the most forcibly seized, retains a faint
scar at the time of this writing more than two months after the
occurrence. Mrs. Crowe, in her Night Side of Nature, says that the
White Lady is frequently seen in different castles and palaces be¬
longing to the royal house of Prussia, and is often observed before
a death in it. There is a different opinion as to the identity of the
apparition, but it is supposed to be that of the Countess of Orle-
munde, the mistress of the Margrave of Brandenburg, who had
her built up alive in a vault in one of the palaces for poisoning her
two children. Baedeker, in his well-known Gtdde (1873), speaks
of the spectre as having been last observed in 1840 at the palace in
Berlin, and Frederick William Third died in the summer of the
same year.” • William Tebb.
7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, London, Nov. 6,1875.
(EorresponUeuce*
[Great freedom it given to corretpondentt, tcho tometimei exprett opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
ALLAN KAKDEC’S CAREER.
Sir,—In my translation of M. Leymarie’s letter, in your No. of
Oct. 8, it is stated that a man had defrauded Allan Kardec of nearly
all his property, and that “he forgave him on his dying bed.”
This statement, though a correct translation of the words in the
original(^m lepardonna sur son lit de mart'), is ambiguous as regards
the party represented as being “ on his dying bed; ” and I therefore
ask of your courtesy to let me explain that the “ dying bed ”
referred to was that of the debtor, to whom Allan Kardec went, and
whom he freely forgave, when that debtor was “ on his dying bed.”
I tender this explanation at the request of our friends here,.and to
avoid confusion in regard to matter of fact; Allan Kardec, as you
probably know, not having had any “ dying bed," but having
expired instantaneously, in his study, seated in his usual chair.
Paris. J. L. O. SULLIVAN.
Among recent subscriptions to the White Messenger Fund are
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, £2; Signor Damiani, per Mr. Geo.
Tommy, £3; Miss B., £l Is.
Brixton Psychological Society.—Cards of invitation have
been issued by Mr. Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, one of the vice-presi¬
dents of this society, for a conversazione, to be held at 6, Loughboro’-
road, North Brixton, on Tuesday, the 16th inst., commencing at
6.30 p.m. The object of this reunion is to afford to members of the
society an agreeable opportunity, not only of meeting each other,
but also of interchanging ideas with other Spiritualists and inves¬
tigators.—Emily G. Fitz-Gerald, Hon. Assist. Sec.
THE SPIKITUALIST,
Nov. 12, 1875.
in
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin B. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn. Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.B.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.Tel.E.
N. F. Da we, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wlttgenstein.
Mrs. Honywood.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr. Wm. H.
Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the editor. This journal
has been a credit and strength to the movement in every respect. It has
been printed in clear type and on good paper, and has been conducted
with ability, caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no means self-
supporting ; indeed, during the first three years of its existence it entailed
upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss, which he bore single-handed. This
loss was aggravated by the fact that, in order the more completely to
devote his attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily
relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon reliable information,
at an average of not less than £200 per annum) of the income which he
was deriving from literary work on the Engineer newspaper and other
journals. Mr. Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the
past eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week to a
practical observation of spiritual phenomena at stances. By his
unwearied and intelligent observation be has been enabled to collect
a moss of reliable information as to the facts and principles of Spiritualism,
which fits him in the highest degree to be the editor of a newspaper
devoted to the religious and scientific aspects of the subject
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper, which was in
augurated the year after the appearance of the Spiritualist, has been
annually subsidized by large subscriptions, which its editor, Mr. Burns,
has always called for as justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully ac¬
knowledge the services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism,
we would coll attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for help has
ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special purpose, appeared in
the pages of the Spiritualist for six years. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr. Harrison alone;
during the last three years an annual sum of about two hundred pounds
has been privately subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless,
greatly relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but this in
no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for year* cheerfully sub¬
mitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to supply to the movement a
paper in many, if not in all, respects worthy of it.
The undersigned ladles and gentlemen are of opinion that it is not
to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary loss should be borne
alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would doubtless
have been forthcoming, as they have been for some years past in
answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since its establishment—but he
has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to the existing
Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take the form of a testimonial
to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is hoped, may to some extent, relieve him
from the heavy sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in
the interests of Spiritualism.
All subscriptions to this fund will be payable on the 1st January, 1876.
Friends desiring to contribute are requested to send in their names to
Martin B. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.O.
List of Subscriptions to October 26th.
Mr. Martin B. Smith T......   £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn     30 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze     30 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder      20 0 0
A Friend  20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod   20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe  15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart , 10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein  6 0 0
F.S.A.  5 5 0
Mr.C.F. Varley, F.B.8    5 0 0
Hr. Eugene Crowell, M.D      3 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe  5 0 0
Mr.Charles Massey    5 0 0
Mr .Desmond Fitz-Gerald     5 0 0
Mrs. Honywood      2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald  2 2 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent   2 0 0
Dr. Baikie ,,a   ,....    2 0 0
Miss Douglas    2 0 0
Mr. Geo. King      110
Mr. F. A. Binney     110
Mr. J. Coates  110
Mrs. Malfby  110
Mrs. Kislingbury   1 1 0
Mr. B. W. Pycock  110
Mr. B. Coleman '. ; ;  110
Mr. B.Fitton          110
Major Menars    110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese       110
Bev. W. Whitear    110
Miss Whitear    110
Mr. O. E. Williams   110
Mr. W. M. Buchanan   10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder  10 0
A Subscriber     10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee       0 10' C
Mr. J. S. Crisp   0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald    o 10 0
Mr. St. George Stock      0 10 0
Mr. Geo Blyton       0 10 0
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOf, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF11 THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT EUSSELL-STBEET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAQER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con5
taming interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author's views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert pale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, redlete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. Cd.
REPQRT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s.: moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.B.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism ,
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.B.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume's “Essay on Miracles." It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in deacriptions-of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERB ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and. other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of Some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents; The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age ■
Science;and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The (Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science:
the Spirit) and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Chinch and the
Spirit. 12010.) 600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid. <tr- - -•>
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in ” The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
i integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vole. 21s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. Tills book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.''
6s. Cd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to: theology, morals, and religion
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 12, 1875,
BOOKS ON SPIBITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND ‘ BIOLOGY.—Co«fr»Med.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The. “ Poughkeepsie Seer.'s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . , . ■ . • . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . ■. ..76
The Teacher, f „ II.’ „ * . • . . . ■ .76
The Seer. „ III. . . . ,.76
The Reformer. IV. „ - : . . . . . ■ .76
The Thinker. ■ ..- V. „ . . ' . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A. J. Davis . . . .-.76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . . . .40
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . , . .76
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . . . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People, . . , .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . ... . . . . , ,40
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . . . .40
Harbinger of Health , , ’ 1 , . . ' . ... • .76
Harmonlal Man, or Thoughts for the Age. . : . . .40
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .t . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . , ..30
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion. , . - . , . . .40
Penetralia; Containing flarmonial Answers . . . ..80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . . . .66
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained . . . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . . . ’.76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings ~. . ,, . .60
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime i . . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims , . , .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , ..' . . . .30
•Morning Lectures ' ’ , • • , . .76
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
CHAP. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom-of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron's Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjo treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed— .
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Scbjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
LE MESSAGER; a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Liege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
Cjre j^intalxst IMtfsjppr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSHalf-a-crown for
VJ the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a yery good medium for' advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to b»
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not-later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to'the.Edltor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. City Pub
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
" “ The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., which may be remitted by Post-office. Order. The cost of a Post
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, pubhshed weekly, is the oldest
-L Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experieneed
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its'columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.RS., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. AlfredR. Wallace,the Naturalist: Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenherg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.:
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelina Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Bamster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe:; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; theRev.C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C. Hall.F.S.A.; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Eaw; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant (Smynia); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy: Mr. William Oxley ;
Miss Kislingbury,; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze: Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—'Mx. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. J. Priest.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitehman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mx. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation,
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE or NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen's-road,
Ever ion, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
rpHE ISLINGTON PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION
JL FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES, 19, Church-street, Upper-streat,
Islington. Mrs. Bullock and other healers in attendance daily from 11 a.m.
till 2 p.m., Sundays from 11 a.m. till 1 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, prin¬
cipals. .
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Trice,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris, Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E, W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.O.
