A RECORD OF THE PROQF(E£j3 OF THE £CIEJVCE AND
[REGISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
ETHIC3 Of £PIF(ITUA;LI£M.
No. 55.—(Vol. m.—No. 16.) LONDON: JULY 1, 1873.
Contents,
Some Experiences and Conclusions regarding Spiritualism (No. YU-) 242
Disturbances in Chapel Vaults in the Island of Oesel   243
Robert Schumann a Medium      246
The Psychological Society of Edinburgh ...     246
A Trance Address by Mrs. Butterfield      247
Lecture by Dr. Sexton      248
Spiritualism in Dalston:—Lecture and Discussion ... ...   248
Spiritualism in Manchester:—The development of Mr. Morse’s Medium-
ship ; The Finding of a Body Through Table Messages; Miscel¬
laneous Experiences-in Spiritualism    •... 250
Spiritualism in East London:—A Test Seance; Mediumship and In¬
sanity ; Mr. Kingsley’s Mediumship   252
Correspondence:—Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s Performance; Dr.
Gully on Spiritualism; Psychological Influences among the lower
animals; The Rev. J. Murray Spear ...   253
Mr. Peebles in New Zealand ... ...     253
Paragraphs:—Mr. Morse’s Mediumship, 252; Spiritualism in 'Walsall,
254; Spiritualism in Liverpool, 254; Baron Louis Guldenstubbe,
254; Dr. Sexton a Trance Medium, 254. ■
The Best Book for Enquirers.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fbitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A, Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica-
tion. London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co, 
Just published, price 2s. 6d.
PPARITHMS: an Essay Explanatory of Old Facts
and a New Theory. To which are added Sketches and Adventures.
By Newton Crosland. Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
Notices of the Press.—“A work of the most absorbing interest.”—
The Mirror. “The reader may find instruction without dulness in its
pages.”—The Spiritual Magazine. “Portions are written with great dra¬
matic vigour.”—The Spiritualist. “ As earnest as a sermon, and as interesting
as any fairy tale.... A master of the art of English composition. His style
is lucid, incisive, eloquent, and epigrammatic.”—The Bradford Chronicle.
“ A great wonder in its way. Mr. Crosland writes very clearly and very
earnestly.”—The Coventry Herald. “The work is an extraordinary one.
Will be received with enthusiasm by all believers.”—Kentish Independent.
“ A mass of interesting reading, which even those who do not believe in
spirit manifestations will be glad to have.... The attention is at once
arrested.”—The South London Press. “ It contains some curious facts. It
will be of good service, assisting towards the first step, that of clearing away
the webs of misrepresentation, false science, and dogmatic ignorance, which
entangle the steps of the honest seeker after spiritual truth.”—Illustrated
Review. “ An eloquent and able dissertation on certain psychological phe¬
nomena. ... The literary merits of this book are great, and its author’s in¬
tentions excellent... . Language always lucid, graphic, and ‘energetic, for
Mr. Crosland is unquestionably a thorough master of the English tongue.
... It is brilliantly written.”—The Guernsey Mail and Telegraph. “ No more
honest, manly, outspoken unwavering utterance is to be found upon the
subject of which it treats, than this little handbook, as it may be called, of
Spiritualism. Many of the stories told are most interesting. The sketches
and adventures with which the work concludes have a mirthful and racy
air, no doubt, proper as ‘ a corrective.’ "—Public Opinion.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £3 3s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
THOMAS WILKS, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM.—Notice is hereby given that the SIXTH HALF-
YEARLY GENERAL MEETING will be holden at the Rooms, 74
Navarino-road, Dalston, E., on Monday Evening, July 14th, 1872, at Eight
o’clock precisely, when the Report of the Council with the Balance Sheet
for the past half-year, will be submitted to the members for adoption.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF LIYERPOOL.
AT A MEETING- of the Conference Committee of the
Psychological Society of Liverpool, held on Monday, June 23rd,
Mr. D. Gay in the chair, the following programme was considered and
adopted as the business of the forthcoming Conference, and while the
Committee earnestly desire Delegates to prepare papers on these questions,
they are anxious4o receive the titles of any other papers which the Delegates
may wish to read, providing that the substance of such papers is forwarded
to the Secretary on or before the 18th of July, so that the reading may be
arranged for in a business-like way.
ORGANISATION.
National.
1st.—The advisability and practicability (financial, &c.) of a National
Union.
2nd.—The best means of securing in future Annual National Conferences.
Local.
1st.—The advisability of Sunday Services and Week-day Meetings.
2nd.—The advantages of special buildings for Spiritual Meetings.
SPIRITUALISM IN ITS RELIGIOUS AND SCIENTIFIC ASPECTS.
1st.—The harmony existing between the Bible and the Teachings of
Spiritualism.
2nd.—Spiritualism in accordance with Natural Laws.
3rd.—The benefit of Physical Manifestations to the Community.
MEDIUMSHIP.
1st.—The peculiar temperaments of different mediums.
2nd.—The arrangement of different mediums in a given circle for tha
production of desired results.
3rd.—The duality of mediums.
4th.—Can any tests be applied to distinguish genuine mediumship.
5th.—The best method of developing mediums.
6th.—The utility of private circles. «.
'EVENINGS.
1st.—Seance. 2nd.—Lecture. 3rd.—Conversazione.
DAVID B. RAMSAY,
Secretary to the Conference Comrhittee.
16, South Castle-street, Liverpool,
June 24th, 1878.
THE ANNUAL NATIONAL CONFERENCE.—At a
general meeting of the Liverpool Psychological Society held on the
29th May last, it was decided to hold the ANNUAL NATIONAL CON¬
FERENCE of Spiritualists in the above town this year on the 5th, 6th, and
7th of August, and in order to facilitate the operations of the Committee
appointed to carryout the project, I would be gM ,if. the secretaries of
societies would communicate with me at their earliest convenience, in order
that some idea may be formed as to the number of delegates likely to be
present. David B. Ramsay,
Secretary of the Conference Committee.
16, South Castle-street,Liverpool.
June 12th, 1873.
East London spiritual meetinos.—lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Tuesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Ojffcea-BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonds Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.O.
" *** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 1, 1873.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorbespondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes. .
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
SubscriptionsNo notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S, A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
-Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street..
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which'may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
SOME EXPERIENCES AND CONCLUSIONS
REGARDING SPIRITUALISM.
No. VII.
BY J. M. GULLY, M.D.
It is not becoming that persons engaged in an earnest
and solemn inquiry should run about seeking the ap¬
proval of the titled and wealthy of the land, and
making use of their presence as a special recommenda¬
tion of their subject. Unquestionably, learned and
accomplished lords exist, but there is not the smallest
proof that they are found in relatively greater number
than amongst untitled educated men. A century ago,
Samuel Johnson uttered his famous antithesis on Lord
Chesterfield, that “-he was a wit among lords and a
lord among wits ; n if we must have lords let us choose
those with brains and with the humility of the inquirer,
and let us not hold that a duke’s opinion is more valu¬
able than that of a marquis, or his than that of an
earl, for by this diminuendo process it would come to
pass that the judgment of Mr. Brown, the tobacconist,
would be worth nothing at all, whereas it is possible
that he may have more spiritual light than the whole
House of Peers put together. And let it not be for¬
gotten that the earliest followers of Christ were all in
what are called the lower ranks of life; neither the
patricians nor the philosophers and scientists of the
Roman Empire joined the new spiritual religion until
the lower-classed people had made it their own, and the
rank and file of the Roman armies were dangerously
infected with the “ new superstition: ” in fact, it was
this last-named consideration alone which forced Con¬
stantine to take the name of Christian, although it was
after he had done so that he committed the worst of his
sanguinary crimes, murdering his own wife, his own
son, and his own nephew, and exhibiting falsehood and
treachery to the end of his life. On the other hand,
the most learned men of those ages, the eloquent Por¬
phyry and the all-accomplished Julian, wrote bitterly
against Christianity, preferring the material shedding
of the blood of sacrificial oxen to the outpouring of.the.
Spirit in its search for the purest and the infinite.
Most probably this will always be the history of
moral impulses in men,—impulses, as we Spiritualists
hold, the result of the efflux of the Spirit ending in
influx into. man. The wealthy have not the hard fight
with a tough world which the poor have: to them the
world is a comfortable world, and leaving it is an un¬
comfortable prospect, and eschatology is not their
favourite study; they are not more sinful than the
poor, and their temptations to be so are smaller; but,
on the other hand, they have not the motives towards,
the yearning for, and the reception of, the facts and
teachings which ensure for them another state of being
wherein all comfort is dependent on spiritual power and
purity, and upon nothing else; these facts, meanwhile,
being brought home to their cognisance as plainly as
their present earthly surroundings, and these teachings
being definite and clear instead of dogmatic, confused,
and intangible. When Kant had analysed, classified,
and systematised the faculties of the intelligent man, he
acknowledged that he stood helpless before the question
of moral right and wrong : “ it rose like a wall of
adamant ” before him, and he could neither pierce it
nor get over it. And so whilst we, scientists especially,
exercise our intellects upon the objects of the material
world around us, and live in ignorance of the wherefore
of right and wrong, what if it should prove that such
intellect as we exert here and on those objects is unfitted
for the study of our surroundings when we pass out of
our bodies, but that it is rendered capable- of finding
and appreciating the reasons for right and wrong, and
thus of enjoying all the glory of the one with the power
of avoiding the other ? In all ages and under all forms
of religion, it has been acknowledged that intellectual
acuteness does not of necessity tend to moral altitude—
nay, is frequently opposed to it: the intellect naturally
becomes enamoured with the contemplation of things
the working of which it can pierce and lay open to its
own satisfaction, whilst the wall of adamant presented
by the causation of moral right and wrong disgusts
because it baffles the search of the self-conscious intel¬
lect. Now, when we reflect how different must be the
appreciation of things by a freed from that by an
embodied spirit, it should render the scientist and the
highly educated most chary of the assertion, that all
knowledge is to be measured and esteemed only by the
forces which they observe at work in the present phase
of existence; and of the contempt which they bestow
on the words and deeds of the spirits who come to tell
us of their life at its present level. It is true that they
do not impart as much as we desire to learn, but they
have said again and again that it is impossible for them
in their state of existence to make us comprehend much
of it with our spirits in our state of existence ; and this
for the same reason that it is impossible for a highly
refined and educated man to render comprehensible to a
coarse uneducated man the intellectual enjoyments
attached to his own state of high mental culture. And
THE SPIRITUALIST.
243
July 1, 1873.
as regards the deeds enacted in our midst by spirits out
of the flesh, they testify, as plainly as the sun testifies
to-day, that those spirits are acquainted with powers of
which we are here altogether ignorant, the freed
spiritual condition being necessary to the comprehen¬
sion and employment of them. It is not possible that
the vision which is effected by means of light trans¬
mitted through vitreous, aqueous, and lenticular sub¬
stance can he the same as that which is practised with¬
out any of these—nay, is effected, and, so far as facts
have hitherto shown it, is effected better, without any
light at all. And so of any external sense which is
said to contribute to internal sense.
Prom these and many other analogous considerations,
I conclude that it is vain to attempt to satisfy the
sceptical intelligent man of the presence of disembodied
spirits around us; he demands for proof that they shall
know only what he knows, that they shall use only the
forces with which he is acquainted, that in all things
they shall be on the same level as himself; then he
might say there was some sense in the subject, but then
the question of disembodied spirits would have vanished.
But that question will keep alive notwithstanding.
The moral if not the intellectual cravings of humanity
will prevent its death, now that the proofs of this
spirit-world immediately around us daily multiply phe¬
nomenally, psychologically, and numerically. Physical
science may neglect or sneer at it, hut the short¬
comings of this present life in the flesh will ever
produce seekers into the truth of the after-tomb life,
where the law of progress, which spirits tell us is the
law of God and humanity, offers at once consolation
for those shortcomings and incentives to commence the
progress at once, here in the body, and so begin the
ulterior heaven which is the involuntary, uncontrollable
longing of every human being—saint, sage, or savage.
There, in that disembodied life, the “ wall of adamant,”
the reason for right and wrong, may be removed; and
as, in this embodied life, it is given us to investigate,
by the intellect, the laws of the material creation
through which God rules it; so, when we no more
belong to that creation, we may, by means of the un¬
trammelled and untempted moral sense (which is the
spirit intent upon transcendental subjects) come to
learn the laws through which God rules the mental
world of our being, and so the highest vision be
added to the highest intelligence, and the spirit, which
is the man, he made perfect. That progressive know¬
ledge in the direction of moral causation is the especial
and happy probability of our spiritual future may be
assumed from the fact that such knowledge has moved
in a tedious circle, and has never advanced forwards or
upwards during the long history of man’s civilised con¬
dition on earth. From Confucius tb the present day
moral teachers have all repeated each other in substance,
varying only in diction or arrangement of matter ; the
moral spring has been fairly pumped dry, and hence
civilisation has run upon the subjects of physical
philosophy, mechanical ingenuity, increased commerce
and wealth, and with it increased material comforts.
These, with their invariable accompaniment of moral
corruption, and ultimately intellectual decrepitude, have
been the form which the state called civilisation has
taken in the histories of all national congregations of
men; in them, as in the individual, there is hopeful,
enterprising youth, strong and flourishing manhood,
and “lean and slippered” old age, sans everything that
was once their pride and their power.
Shall man rest content to go on always in this
upward and downward course ? Shall mere increase of
wealth, material comfort, ostentatious luxury, and
artistic brilliancy, continue to be the only civilisation
to be aimed at and valued ? Yet what other can be
sought for and compassed so long as men maintain that
this life in flesh is the “ be all and the end all ” of our
race ?—so long as the moral guidance of the world is
veiled from our sight, and appears often as a contra¬
dictory, if not a cruel device ? Is it not a lofty, a holy,
a glorious desire, to lift up this veil—a “ small corner ”
of it here, and a magnificent view behind it hereafter ?
Yet for having this desire are Spiritualists laughed at
and socially persecuted, our facts denied and ridiculed
without examination, and our conclusions deemed
ravings because they lead to no material and money¬
getting purpose, and because they add not to the
civilisation of pride and glitter. And when this “ fitful
fever ” of bodily life shall be drawing to its close, when
the ghosts of bygone years flit before us, pointing with,
cold, unvarying finger from the irrevocable past to the
doubted or doubtful future, and the spirit, flickering in
its fleshly socket, no longer responds with eagerness to
the stimulants which once streamed from the body—
what shall it then avail though we have flashed the
meteor of a day, though we have filled the social atmo -
sphere with our intellectual, scientific light ? At such
a time, shall it better avail that, like the butterfly, we
have displayed our gaudy wings whilst fluttering, with
momentary purpose, from flower to flower of a short
summer, or that, like the bee, we have gathered, un¬
ostentatiously and sedulously, the honey of sweet and
holy thoughts which lie deep in the spiritual source of
every one of the phenomena of God’s creation—a source
including eternity, infinity, endless summer ? Surely,
surely not to serve the purposes of this brief and suffering
life in this body alone was the glorious gift of thought
bestowed upon .us, but that we might fly beyond the
things we see, touch and hear, and behold their origina¬
tion and reality in the Great Central Spirit, whose influx
into ourselves is the Spirit of Man, and maintains us in
sympathy with the spiritual being of all created
things.
DISTURBANCES IN' CHAPEL YAULTS IN THE
ISLAND OF OESEL.*
BY EGBERT DALE OWEET, FORMERLY MEMBER OP CONGRESS,
AND AMERICAN MINISTER AT NAPLES.
In the immediate vicinity of Ahrensburg, the only
town in the island of Oesel, is the public cemetery.
Tastefully laid out and carefully kept, planted with
trees and partly surrounded by a grove dotted with
evergreens, it is a favourite promenade of the inhabit¬
ants^ Besides its tombs—-in every variety, from the
humblest to the most elaborate—it contains several
private chapels, each the burying-place of some family
of distinction. Underneath each of these is a vault,
paved with wood, to which the descent is by a stairway
from inside the chapel, and closed by a door. The
coffins of the members of the family more recently
deceased usually remain for a time in the chapel. They
are afterwards transferred to the vaults, and there
placed side by side, elevated on iron bars. These
* Quoted from Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World. Trubner and
Co., London. The island of Oesel, in the Baltic, is possessed by Russia,
having been ceded to that Power, by the Treaty of Nystadt, in 1721. It
constitutes part of Livonia.
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 1, 1873.
coffins it is the custom to make of massive oak, very-
heavy, and strongly put together.
The public highway passes in front of the cemetery
and at a short distance therefrom. Conspicuous, and
to he seen by the traveller as he rides by, are three
chapels, facing the highway. Of these the most spa¬
cious, adorned with pillars in front, is that belonging to
the family of Buxhoewden, of patrician descent, and
originally from the city of Bremen. It has been their
place of interment for several generations.
It was the habit of the country people, coming in
on horseback or with carts on a visit to the cemetery,
to fasten their horses, usually with very stout halters,
immediately in front of this chapel, and close to the
pillars that adorned it. This practice continued, not¬
withstanding that, for some eight or ten years previous
to the incidents about to be narrated, there had been
from time to time vague rumours of a mysterious kind
connected with the chapel in question as being haunted
—rumours which, however, as they could not be traced
to any reliable source, were little credited, and were
treated by its owners with derision.
The chief season of resort to the cemetery, by per¬
sons from all parts of the island whose relatives lay
buried there, was on Pentecost Sunday and the suc¬
ceeding days—these being there observed much in the
same manner as in most Catholic countries All-Souls
Day usually is.*'
On the second day of Pentecost, Monday, the 22nd
of Jane (new style), in the year 1844, the wife of a
certain tailor named Dalmann, living in Ahrensburg,
had come with a horse and small cart to visit, with her
children, the tomb of her mother, situated behind the
Buxhoewden family chapel, and had fastened her horse,
as usual, in front of it, without unharnessing him, pro¬
posing, as soon as she had completed her devotions, to
visit a friend in the country.
While kneeling in silent prayer by the grave, she had
an indistinct perception, as she afterwards remembered,
that she heard some noises in the direction of the
chapel; but, absorbed in other thoughts, she paid at the
time no attention to it. Her prayers completed, and-
returning to prosecute her journey, she found her horse
—usually a quiet animal—in an inexplicable state of
excitement. Covered with sweat and foam, its limbs
trembling, it appeared to be in mortal terror. When
she led it off, it seemed scarcely able to walk; and,_
instead of proceeding on her intended excursion, she
found herself obliged to return to town and to call a
veterinary surgeon. He declared that the horse must
have been excessively terrified from some cause or other,
bled it, administered a remedy, and the animal re¬
covered.
A day or two afterwards, this woman, coming to the
chateau of one of the oldest noble families of Livonia,
the Baron de Guldenstubbe, near Ahrensburg, as was
her wont, to do needlework for the family, related to
the baron the strange incident which had occurred to
her. He treated it lightly, imagining that the woman
exaggerated, and that her horse might have been acci¬
dentally frightened.
The circumstance would have been soon forgotten
had it not been followed by others of a similar cha¬
racter. The following Sunday several persons, who
had attached their horses in front of the same chapel,
reported that they found them covered with sweat,
* The religion of the island is the Protestant; though of late years
attempts have been made to procure converts, to the Greek Church,
trembling, and in the utmost terror; and some among
them added that they had themselves heard, seeming
to proceed from the vaults of the chapel, rumbling
sounds which occasionally (but this might have been the
effect of imagination) assumed the character of groans.
And this was but the prelude to further disturbances,
gradually increasing in frequency. One day in the
course of the next month (July) it happened that eleven
horses were fastened close to the columns of the chapel.
Some persons, passing near by, and hearing, as they
alleged, loud noises,* as if issuing from beneath the
building, raised the alarm; and when the owners
reached the spot they found the poor animals in a
pitiable condition. Several of them, in their frantic
efforts to escape, had thrown themselves on the ground,
and lay struggling there; others were scarcely able to
walk or stand; and all were violently affected, so that
it became necessary immediately to resort to bleeding
and other means of relief. In the case of three or four
of them these means proved unavailing. They died
within a day or two.
This was serious. And it was the cause of a formal
complaint being made by some of the sufferers to the
Consistory—a court holding its sittings at Ahrensburg,
and having charge of ecclesiastical affairs.
About the same time, a member of the Buxhoewden
family died. At his funeral, during the reading in the
chapel of the service for the dead, what seemed groans
and other strange noises were heard from beneath, to
the great terror of some of the assistants, the servants
especially. The horses attached to the hearse and to
the mourning coaches were sensibly affected, but not so
violently as some of the others had been. After the
interment, three or four of those who had been present,
bolder than their neighbours, descended to the vault.
While there they heard nothing; but they found, to
their infinite surprise, that, of the numerous coffins
which had been deposited there in due order side by
side, almost all had been displaced and lay in a con¬
fused pile. They sought in vain for any cause that
might account for this. The doors were always kept
carefully fastened, and the locks showed no signs of
having been tampered with. The coffins were replaced
in due order.
This incident caused much talk, and, of course,
attracted additional attention to the chapel and the
alleged disturbances. Children were left to watch the
horses when any were fastened in its vicinity; but
they were usually too much frightened to remain; and
some of them even alleged that they had seen some
dark-looking spectres hovering in the vicinity. The
stories, however, related by them on this latter head
were set down—reasonably enough, perhaps—to the ac¬
count of their excited fears. But parents began to
scruple about taking their children to the cemetery
at all.
The excitement increasing, renewed complaints on
the subject reached the Consistory, and an inquiry into
the matter was proposed. The owners of the chapel at
first objected to this, treating the matter as a trick or a
scandal set on foot by their enemies. But though they
carefully examined the floor of the vault, to make sure
that no one had entered from beneath, they could find
nothing to, confirm their suspicions. And the Baron
de Guldenstubbe, who was president of the Consistory,
* OetSse was the German word employed hy the narrator in speaking t°
me of these sounds. It is the term often used to designate the rolling of
distant thunder. Schiller says, in his Taucher—
“ Und wis mit des fernen Donner's Getose.”
July 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
having visited the vaults privately in company with
two members of the family, and having found the
coffins again in the same disorder, they finally, after
restoring the coffins to their places, assented to an
official investigation of the affair.
The persons charged with this investigation were the
Baron de Guldenstubbe, as president, and the bishop of
the province, as vice-president, of the Consistory; two
other members of the same body; a physician, named
Luce; and, on the part of the magistracy of the town,
the burgomeister, named Schmidt, one of the syndics,
and a secretary.
They proceeded, in a body, to institute a careful
examination of the vault. All the coffins there de¬
posited, with the exception of three, were found this
time, as before, displaced. Of the three coffins forming
the exception, one contained the remains of a grand¬
mother of the then representative of the family,
who had died about five years previous; and the
two others were of young children. The grandmother
had been, in life, revered almost as a saint, for
her great piety and constant deeds of charity and bene¬
volence.
The first suggestion which presented itself, on dis¬
covering this state of things, was that robbers might
have broken in for the sake of plunder. The vault of
an adjoining chapel had been forcibly entered some
time before, and the rich velvet and gold fringe which
adorned the coffins had been cut off and stolen. But
the most careful examination failed to furnish any
grounds for such a supposition in the present case.
The ornaments of the coffins were found untouched.
The commission caused several to be opened, in order
to ascertain whether the rings or other articles of
jewellery which it was customary to bury with the
corpses, and some of which were of considerable value,
had been taken. No indication of this kind, however,
appeared. One or two of the bodies had mouldered
almost to dust, but the trinkets known to have formed
part of the funeral apparel still lay there, at the bottom
of the coffins.
It next occurred, as a possibility, to the commission,
that some enemies of the Buxhoewden family, wealthy,
perhaps, and determined to bring upon them annoyance
and reproach, might have caused to be excavated a sub¬
terranean passage, its entrance at a distance and con¬
cealed so as to avoid observation, and the passage itself
passing under the foundations of the building and
opening into the vault. This might furnish sufficient
explanation of the disarray of the coffins and of the
noises heard from without.
To determine the point, they procured workmen,
who took up the pavement of the vault, and carefully
examined the foundations of the chapel; but without
any result. The most careful scrutiny detected no
secret entrance.
Nothing remained but to replace everything in due
order, taking exact note of the position of the coffins,
and to adopt especial precautions for the detection of
any future intrusion. This, accordingly, was done.
Both doors, the inner and the outer, after being care¬
fully locked, were doubly sealed—first with the official
seal of the Consistory, then with that bearing the arms
of the city. Fine wood ashes were strewed all over the
wooden pavement of the vault, the stairs leading down
to it from the chapel, and the floor of the chapel itself.
Finally, guards, selected from the garrison of the town,
and relieved at short intervals, were set for three days
and nights to watch the building and prevent any one
from approaching it.
At the end of that time the commission of inquiry
returned to ascertain the result. Both doors were found
securely locked and the seals inviolate. They entered.
The coating of ashes still presented a smooth, unbroken
surface. Neither in the chapel nor on the stairway lead¬
ing to the vault was there a trace of a footstep of man or
animal. The vault was sufficiently lighted from the chapel
to make every object distinctly visible. They descended.
With beating hearts they gazed on the spectacle before
them. Not only was every coffin, with the same three
exceptions as before, displaced, and the whole scattered
in confusion over the place, but many of them, weighty
as they were, had been set on end, so that the head of
the corpse was downward. Nor was even this all. The
lid of one coffin had been partially forced open, and
there projected the shrivelled right arm of the corpse
it contained, showing beyond the elbow, the lower arm
being turned up towards the ceiling of the vault!
The first shock over, which this astounding sight pro¬
duced, the commission proceeded carefully to take note,
in detail, of the condition of things as they found
them.
No trace of human footsteps was discovered in the
vault, any more than on the stairs or in the chapel.
Nor was there detected the slightest indication of any
felonious violation. A second search verified the fact
that neither the external ornaments of the coffins nor
the articles of jewellery with which some of the corpses
had been decorated were abstracted. Everything was
disarranged; nothing was taken.
They approached, with some trepidation, the coffin from
one side of which the arm projected; and, with a shudder,
they recognised it as that in which had been placed the
remains of a member of the Buxhoewden family who
had committed suicide. The matter had been hushed
up at the time, through the influence of the family, and
the self-destroyer had been buried with the usual cere¬
monies ; but the fact transpired, and was known all
over the island, that he was found with his throat cut,
and the bloody razor still grasped in his right hand—
the same hand that was now thrust forth to human
view from under the coffin-lid—a ghastly memorial, it
seemed, of the rash deed which had ushered the un¬
happy man, uncalled, into another world !
An official report, setting forth the state of the vault
and of the chapel at the time when the commission
set seals upon the doors, verifying the fact that the
seals were afterwards found unbroken and the coating
of ashes intact; and, finally, detailing the condition of
things as they appeared when the commission revisited
the chapel at the end of the three days, was made out
by the Baron de Guldenstubbe, as president, and signed
by himself, by the bishop, the burgomeister, the physi¬
cian, and the other members of the commission, as
witnesses. This document, placed on record with the
other proceedings of the Consistory, is to be found among
its archives, and may be examined by any travellers,
respectably recommended, on application to its secre¬
tary.
Never having visited the island of Oesel, I had not
an opportunity of personally inspecting this paper; but
the facts above narrated were detailed to me by Made¬
moiselle de Guldenstubbe,* daughter of the baron, who
was residing in her father’s house at the time, and was
cognisant of each minute particular. They were con-
* At Paris, on tlie Sth of May, 1859.
246
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 1, 1873.
firmed to me, also, on the same occasion, by her brother,
the present Baron.
This lady informed me that the circumstances pro¬
duced so great an excitement throughout the whole
island that there could not have been found, among
its fifty thousand inhabitants, a cottage inmate to whom
they were not familiar. She added that the effect upon
the physician, M. Luce, a witness of these marvels, was
such as to produce a radical change in his creed. An
able man, distinguished in his profession, familiar, too,
with the sciences of botany, mineralogy, and geology,
and the author of several works of repute on these sub¬
jects, he had imbibed the materialistic doctrines that
were prevalent, especially among scientific men through¬
out continental Europe, in his college days ; and these
he retained until the hour when, in the Buxhoewden
vault,he became convinced that there are ultra-mundane
as well as earthly powers, and that this is not our final
state of existence.
It remains to be stated that, as the disturbances con¬
tinued for several months after this investigation, the
family, in order to get rid of the annoyance, resolved to
try the effect of burying the coffins. This they did,
covering them up, to a considerable depth, with'earth.
The expedient succeeded, Erom that time forth no
noises were heard to proceed from the chapel; horses
could be fastened with impunity -before it; and the
inhabitants, recovering from their alarm, frequented,
with their children, as usual, their favourite resort.
Nothing remained but the memory of the past occur¬
rences—to fade away as the present generation dies
out, and perhaps to be regarded by the next as an idle
legend of the incredible.
ROBERT SCHUMANN A MEDIUM.*
In 1851, alarming symptoms of a terrible, slowly-
developing, and anxiously-watched disease, appeared.
Robert Schumann wrote of it, June 11, 1851, “ We
are all tolerably‘well, except that I am the victim of
occasional nervous attacks, which sometimes alarm me;
especially a few days ago, when I fainted after hearing
Radecke f play the organ.” These “ nervous attacks ”
increased in 1852, and were accompanied by peculiar
symptoms. Pre-eminent among them was that diffi¬
culty of enunciation from which he had always suffered,
though never to such a degree. It was also noticeable,
that, on hearing music, he always thought the time too
fast; longed to have it slower, and insisted upon it
when he led. This was clearly because he was no
longer able to follow a brisk movement. His demeanour
was sad; and his reception of intimate friends, spite of
apparent cordiality, revealed great apathy. He took
little interest in the male choral festival held at Dus-
seldorf on the first four days of August, 1852, although
he had been chosen one of the directors; and it was
evident that he was exhausted, both mentally and phy¬
sically, by the slight exertion of leading a few pieces.
The morbid symptoms so often recurring in 1852 not
only re-appeared in 1853, but new ones were added.
This was the time of “ table-tipping,” which put Schu¬
mann into perfect ecstacies, and, in every sense of the
word, captivated him. “ Table-tipping ” troubled many
prudent people at that time, when it went the round of
the boudoirs and tea-parties of nervous ladies, and the
* Translated from the German of Wasielwski by A. L. Alger. A national
musical festival in honour of the great composer, Robert Schumann, is now
being held in Germany.
t Robert Radecke, director in Berlin, who was then visiting Dusseldorf.
studies of otherwise earnest men; but their feelings
were different from Schumann’s nervous frenzy. "While
visiting Dusseldorf in May, 1853,1 one day entered his
room, and found him on the sofa, reading. To my in¬
quiry as to the subject of his book, he replied in an
excited tone, “ Oh ! don’t you know anything about
‘table-tipping?’” I laughingly answered, ^IjVell?”
Upon this, his eyes, generally half shut and in-turned,
opened wide, the pupils dilated convulsively, and with a
peculiar, ghost-like look, he said, slowly and mournfully,
“ The tables know all.” When I saw that he was in
serious earnest, rather than irritate him I fell into his
humour, and he soon grew calm. He then called his
second daughter, and began to experiment with her aid
on a small table which accented the beginning of Beet¬
hoven’s C minor symphony. The whole scene struck me
with terror; and I well remember that I expressed my
distress to acquaintances at the time. He wrote of his
experiments to Ferd.Hiller, April 25,1853, “We tipped
the table yesterday for the first time. Wonderful power!
Just think; I asked for the first two measures of the C
minor symphony! It delayed longer than usual with
the answer: at last it gave them, but rather slowly at
first. When I said, ‘ But the time is faster, dear table,’
it hastened to beat the true time. When I asked it if
it could give the number which I was thinking of, it gave
it correctly as three. We were all filled with wonder.”
And to the same, April 29, “ We have repeated our
experiments in mesmerism : we seem surrounded with
wonders.”
There were also occasional auricular delusions which
caused him to hear an uninterrupted sound, and in his
nervous excitement he really heard it, although there
was nothing in the slightest degree approaching a sound.
The violinist, Ruppert Becker, of Frankfort-on-the-Maine,
who then lived in Dusseldorf, told me that he was at a
beer saloon with Schumann one evening. Suddenly
Schumann threw down the paper, saying, “ I can read
no more; I hear an incessant A .”—The Choir.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.*
The tenth ordinary meeting of the above society was held
in the Craigie Rooms, St. Andrew Square, Edinburgh, on the
4th of June, at 8 p.m., the president, Dr. G. B. Clark, in the
chair.
The President said that, following the usual custom of other
scientific bodies of suspending business during the summer
months, the past session would close with the present meeting.
He thought the society would do well to at once get actively
through the business, as anything not taken up would have to
stand over till the first Wednesday in October.
Mr. Morrison rose to ask the president whether the society
would not deem it advisable to suspend the standing orders in
regard to the strict admission of members? All members
knew, and all outsiders ought to know, that none but approved
persons could be admitted to the membership of the society,
and that only by being proposed and seconded at one meeting,
and, if found worthy, elected at the next. There was, how¬
ever, present that evening a very worthy young gentleman, the
son of one of the lady members who was most anxious to join
the summer seances. Without being a member he could not
do so; therefore, without the society kindly suspended in his
favour the standing orders, he could not be a member till the
first Wednesday in October.
This proposal being put to the meeting, the candidate (Mr.
Black) was at once duly elected an ordinary member.
On the motion of the President, seconded by the secretary,
Mr. J. D. Morrison, M.A., was unanimously formally elected
the corresponding honorary secretary of the society.
Next came up for consideration and discussion the sub¬
committees’ reports from the different districts, in which
most of the members took a lively interest.
* This report reached us too late for insertion in the last number of
The Spiritualist.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
247
July 1, 1873.
The discussions on the reports of the seance and library-
committees being likely to take up too much time were agreed
to be sent for consideration to the office-bearers and the seven
of a committee, at a meeting of the whole to be held in the
treasurer and librarian’s rooms, 31, Princess-street, on the
11th of June, at 8 p.m.
Mr. Morrison, in anticipation of an extra long closing
address by the president, withdrew an intended paper, and
instead thereof, made the following remarks :—Mr. President,
Ladies and Gentlemen,—As all investigators of psychological
phenomena like to have the latest news, and for that reason
desire to see the Spiritualist newspaper, a weekly publication,
I may tell you, that, by means of that most wonderful of all
extraordinary correlating philosophical instruments (the
human brain), the entire force of Dr. Richardson’s article on
“ Hallucinatory Manifestations ” has been converted into an
impressional impulse to congratulate my fellow members that,
notwithstanding our investigating habits, we remain sane
enough to think that we have still left us, not only some
reason for the faith that is in us, but that over and above
the usual sanity of scientific men, enough remaining to
fall back upon, to realise in the session which this evening
closes a very decided practical success. When we reflect over
three simple facts: firstly, that our society drew its first
breath on the 27th of last January; secondly, that notwith¬
standing the extreme stringency of our rules to the effect that
from meeting to meeting the characters of all candidates shall
be open to the entire society’s scrutiny before admission, we
nevertheless number fifty registrations, and continuing our
reflections over the third greatly more gratifying fact that no
member of our body, in or out of the society, has ever once
heard the slightest approach to one jarring word, I think we
cannot help coming to one of two conclusions. These con¬
clusions are, either that Spiritualism and its teachings must
have on all honest inquirers after truth a most harmonising
anj. humanising influence, or that the ladies, through their
higher and holier emotional natures, are in mediumship so
susceptible to carrying out Dr. Carpenter’s “ unconscious
cerebration ’’ that, unknown to themselves, they (Nightingale¬
like) become our (ministering angels here in health, as else¬
where in sickness. An impression comes to remind me that
this is the last night of the session, and that our worthy pre¬
sident has some very considerable summing up to do. I shall
not take up one moment more of your time than to express
the hope that that Great Being who directs the atom and
controls the aggregate of nature will so guide our true spirit
selves, that through a purer life under law we may see more
clearly that love ought to be the mainspring of all human
enterprise, completing, through civilisation, that circle of
: sympathy which alone can aid and eleyate human progres¬
sion.
The President, in'an eloquent and impressive address, which
occupied more than an hour, exhorted the members to go on
as they had begun, and to fear not but that there would come
a time when the world would follow their humble investigating
efforts to leave it better than they found it, and would be
.readier to realise the grander life in the next.
On the motion of Mr. Morris a vote of thanks was unani¬
mously given to the president for his instructive address.
A TRANCE ADDRESS BY MRS. BUTTERFIELD.
On Sunday evening, June 22nd, a trance address was given
at the Cavendish Rooms, Mdrtimer-street, Regent-street, by
Mrs. Butterfield, a Yorkshire medium, who has not had the
advantage of a good education, but who, under spirit influence,
gives addresses of a somewhat higher order than she is capable
of delivering in her normal state. The proceedings began with
a short address from Mr. Burns, and the singing of a hymn,
after which
Mrs. Butterfield, in the unconscious trance state, uttered a
short prayer, returning thanks for the boon to mankind of
spiritual communion. At the close of the prayer she asked
the question, “ What is religion?” She added that in olden
times men tried to please an angry and vindictive God by
sacrifices and bloodshed, and they considered the measures
they adopted to appease His supposed wrath to be religion.
In more modern times Protestants point to the blood of Jesus
Christ, and say that religion consists in faith in the saving
virtues of that blood, yet speak to Protestants about Roman
Catholics, they will shudder, and express the opinion that the
Roman Catholic system is the “ Scarlet Woman ” spoken of
in the Bible. The Roman Catholic says that it is an act of
true religion to confess to the priest, and to ask the priest to
intercede with God for pardon for the penitent.- Hundreds of -
sects go to the Bible ; they each get the true religion from it,
but they all differ from each other, yet they are all fight, and
none wrong. “ You must be baptised by immersion, or you
cannot be saved,” says one sect. “ It is not necessary.
Sprinkling will do,” says another. A third says that baptism
is unnecessary, and that simple belief is sufficient. If a man
replies, “ I ca/nnot believe, but will do the best I can,” these
warring sects shake their heads, and intimate that for him
there is no hope. If this be true, there is no hope for nine out
of every ten of the human family. Where go they? Down to
the dark, dark place where there is no opportunity, say they,
of ever rising again. The man who tells the honest truth that he
“ cannot believe,” is called an infidel, after which, if he enters
a church, he is thought scarcely fit to be there. That man
does better when he takes his little child into the fields on the
Sabbath, and as they, stand in the midst of the beautiful trees
and flowers, with the fresh green grass at their feet, they are
brought more face to face with the God who made them ; and,
as his little child, places in his hand a tiny flower, he may
indeed ask, “ Is it possible that the God who created this for
the good of man and beast, can condemn us all for ever?”
Then angels unseen draw near. The good and the holy angels
shed their influence over him, whilst God is speaking to his
soul through that flower, and his is a state of worship indeed,
pure and holy. His soul is lifted up, and filled with love, with
compassion for humanity. As he passes homewards, perhaps
he is met by the “ man of God ” who has been officiating in
the pulpit, but who knows not of the truer religion in the
heart of the outcast, and its recognition by the angel world.
What do the spirits say is true religion ? To do to others as
you would have others do to you; to love every living thing;
to know yourselves anatomically, phrenologically, mentally,
and spiritually, that you may be able to improve yourselves,
and thereby to elevate your race. The only barrier between
God and man is ignorance. When the righteous get to the
other side of the grave they find to their astonishment that
they are not angels, but that they are themselves, and that
some persons who never pretended to believe in the incredible,
are happier than they. The real man finds himself in the
place for which he is fitted hy his own nature, irrespective of
what he believed or pretended to believe on earth, and he may
say to a former infidel acquaintance—“ How is this ? I went
to church every Sunday, and took tea occasionally with our
parson, yet I find we are both in the same place?” And his
friend replies, “ I was an infidel, but when I reached the
spirit land I had very few creeds and dogmas to throw off, for
the mind must be free from such things before it can rise in
spirit life.” Such is the difference between the man who has
lived in the faith, and the man who never paid any attention
to the faith. All the returning spirits at spirit circles agree
in their statement that within the spirit land men are not
happy in proportion to their belief, but in proportion to the
goodness of their-acts, and of the life they led on earth. The
less of creeds men have, the .better it will be for themselves
and for all the world. Priestcraft and kingcraft have done
their work; they are tottering to their fall, and a grander and
nobler philosophy than they ever conceived is dawning upon
mankind.
There was a collection at the close of the proceedings.
The editor of the Spiritual periodical Aurora, published
in Florence, has just issued a pamphlet on “ Reincarnation,”
intended for English and American readers.
We are glad to be able to state that Mr. Enmore Jones
is much better in health ; he was able to visit Eastbourne for a
short time, but had to leave there because the air did not
agree with him.
About thirty thousand of the Spiritual leaflets have now
been circulated. They contain an abstract of the results of
the investigation made by the Dialectical Committee, also
instructions how to form spirit circles at home.
A second edition of Where are the Dead t printed on
toned paper has just been issued. The binding is much better
than that of the first edition. It is a capital book to present
to inquirers into Spiritualism.
Recently Dr. Sexton explained, at the Cavendish Rooms,
how Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke, and other conjurors, did
their tricks, the said conjurors being present. Dr. Sexton’s
explanation agreed with that published in these pages a month
or two ago. We gave sectional drawings of the cabinet and its
mirror.
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 1, 1873.
LECTURE BY DR. SEXTON;
Last Sunday night, June 29th, Mr. George Sexton, M.D.,
lectured at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-
street, on Spiritualism. To a considerable extent it was the
same lecture he delivered to the Dalston Association, and at
the Crystal Palace, as already reported in these pages. Dr.
Sexton commenced by giving a quotation from Bacon that
“ the true end, scope, or office of knowledge, I have set down
to consist, not in any plausible, delectable, reverend or admired
discourse, or any satisfactory arguments, but in effecting and
working and in discovery of particulars not revealed before
for the better endowment and help of man’s life.” He then
proceeded to enlarge upon the prejudice that always existed
against new truths and the strong tendency that there was in
human nature to cling to the past, regardless of whether an
improvement could not be effected advantageously; this
principle after all sprang from a good quality in human na¬
ture, but was evil in its operation, because it was always
pushed to an extreme. Spiritualism had only to contend with
the same kind of opposition that all other new movements
had met with. In the end it was certain to prevail, only it
required great patience on the part of its advocates to wait,
and x great courage to fight the uphill battle. He divided
spiritual phenomena into—1. Merely physical phenomena
such as knockings and rappings ; 2. Intelligent responses to
questions; 3. Psychological phenomena seen though a medium
but. not springing from the mental powers of the person
affected; 4; Direct spirit action ; 5. Spirits recognised by the
senses. These, he said, were probably not all the classes of pheno¬
mena, but they were sufficient for the present purpose. All
these phenomena had been denied by sceptics; by others
they were admitted, by others again they were explained
away by some whimsical theory or other. A large number
of those theories were dealt with or ably disposed of. The
conclusion at which the lecturer arrived was that Spiritualism
was scientificallyaccurate and that no other theory could ex¬
plain the facts. He concluded with a very eloquent peroration,
and sat down amidst loud applause.
The subject will be continued next Sunday.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
DE. HUGH M'lEOD ON SCIENTIFIC SPIBITUALISM.
Last Thursday, Dr. Hugh McLeod delivered a lecture to
the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74,
Navarino-road, Dalston, London, on “ Scientific Spiritualism.”
Mr. T. Wilks, president, occupied the chair, and there was a
large attendance of members.
The President introduced Dr. McLeod, who then delivered
the following lecture :—
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen—When I lectured on
Spiritualism six years ago in London, the listeners expressed
the opinion that my address was so far in advance of their
own knowledge, that they wished I had dealt with facts more
in accordance with their own experience. My scientific
spiritual experiences have been gained at very great cost in
time and money, and I have suffered nearly everything that
man can suffer, in learning the truth about Spiritualism. As
■an example of my close attention to the subject, six years ago
I was a member of a spirit circle which sat nightly at
Tottenham for six months without intermission, and at the
end of the time every sitter was so charged with some kind of
influence, as to perceptibly influence everybody with whom
they came in contact at other circles.
Science is the Bible of the universe ; primary in importance,
absolute in authority, and final in all matters of appeal. If
we are to be “saved,” in any sense, science must be the
saviour.
Place Romanism, Anglicanism, Presbyterianism, Lutheran¬
ism, or any other so called systems of theology in the crucibles
of science for analysation and what becomes of them ? Igno¬
rance, delusion, fable, priestcraft, kingcraft, self-interest, fears
the most groundless, blasphemy, dust, and ashes. Spiritual¬
ism is the only system, or rather philosophy, which, treating
of man’s eternal nature, demands the most uncompromising
scientific investigation. Scientific Spiritualism not only sug¬
gests but demonstrates the existence of an interior and divine
significance and purpose of all essences and influences in the
universe of phenomena. Almost all the churches (circles)
have had an honest and spiritual origin; and modern scientific
Spiritualism is the attempt to re-affirm their true character
and uses.
With scientific Spiritualism there are no f accidents:” man’s
capacities, aspirations, beliefs, and acts, are the natural pro¬
ducts of his times and their surroundings. He is a parent of
the future as well as a descendant of the past. Its greatest
axiom is—“ That man is the servant and interpreter of nature;
capable of knowing and reducing to practice just so much of
nature and nature’s laws as he may be fitted to comprehend.”
Scientific Spiritualism is simply spiritual science. Science
simply means knowledge. Judges and juries appeal to science:
so do we, and like them with varying success—all depends on
the spirit of enquiry. But when the mind is qualified to
observe the habits, analyse the methods, and comprehend the
relations of her demonstrations, truthful exposition is certain,
andfailure impossible. Scientific facts or truths, however, are one
thing, and scientific opinions another. In the trial of Palmer for
the poisoning of abetting man of his acquaintance named Cook,
twenty or thirty doctors made affidavit that Cook must have
been poisoned by strychnia, and twenty or thirty other doctors
made affidavit that he could not have been so poisoned. Once
in. the north of England a man dug for coal, and discovered
some mineral, whereupon the owner of the land thought he
had leased it to the finder on too low terms, and sued him for
more money. The finder, among other things, pleaded that
the mineral was not coal. About fifteen professors of geology
appeared as witnesses for the prosecution, testifying that it
was coal, and about twenty appealed for the defence who
gave the others the lie direct. Men of the highest standing
gave evidence on this trial, including Miller, and Professor
Wilson, who was not a geologist. The judge very knowingly
told the jury that if scientific men did not know what coal
was, they (the jury) could not be expected to decide the point,
consequently they gave a verdict for the defendant. Scientific
opinions and scientific truths therefore, are often very different
things.
Admitted scientific truths are sometimes inexplicable. No
man can twist mathematics to serve his own ends, yet there
are phenomena of numbers which the mathematician cannot
explain. Thus in multiplying by nine, the sum of the result¬
ing figures is always nine ; for instance, nine times seven are
63, which two figures added together make nine ; nine times
three are 27, these two figures added together make nine, and
so on. Here is a mathematical fact which mathematicians
admit, but cannot explain.
Of the ten millions of Spiritualists spoken of by the spiritual
newspapers, how many are qualified to observe or understand
what they see? (Hear, hear.) What then is the value of the
observations of ten millions of Spiritualists ? Perhaps of less
value than fifty Spiritualists like Professor Hare and Judge
Edmonds in America, not to mention a few gentlemen simi¬
larly qualified nearer home. These men require no external
support for anything they advance in relation to Spiritualism,
because their training and education enables them to deal
with it efficiently and accurately themselves. Many people
who call themselves the mouthpieces of Spiritualism, are not
qualified, although they say they are. The beauties of Chris¬
tianity are many, yet few of these are seen inside popular
Spiritualism ; the edict “ Love one another ” may be quoted
as an example. Spiritual teachers are not so well paid as
Christian lecturers, although the latter are often as ignorant as
ignorant can be, quite unfit to speak at all. There is no orga¬
nisation—nothing to support the disciples of the science of
Spiritualism. I know a very decent man, a plumber, whose
master threatened to throw him out of work if he dared to
utter another word in favour of Spiritualism, and as he had a
wife and family to support, he said that he was obliged to
keep silence. Such men should be aided, and could be aided
were there but an organisation consisting of only two hundred
Spiritualists; those two hundred would possess a mighty
power.
I have nothing to say against the Bible. It is a most
valuable record of spiritual phenomena—of phenomena given
through mediums. Some of the manifestations in the presence
of Elijah were surpassingly grand, for instance, when he
called on his God to send down fire from heaven, to consume
his sacrifice before the priests of Baal. The same spirit whose
aid was sought by Elijah, I call upon to-night. You may be
surprised that I often call on Jesus for aid, for power to tell
the truth under all circumstances, and I fry to tell it respect¬
fully and kindly; but I call on Jesus as I would on any other
bright and glorious spirit, such as Socrates or Aristotle.
The principal of our objects as scientific Spiritualists is to
make known to all the world that all systems of intellectual,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
July 1, 1873.
physical, or religious education, which are not basic and fun¬
damental in the wholeness of nature are, and ever will be,
failures; the offspring of imperfect conceptions and fragmen¬
tary constructions, which end in defective education, cruel
legislation, discordant socialism, and tyrannical public
opinion.
We live in a land of “Bibles; ” but science is the bible of
the universe. The great books of this “Bible” are—lan¬
guage, grammar, anthropology, geography, climatology, geo¬
logy, animal and vegetable physiology, phreno-physiognomy,
natural history, natural philosophy, chemistry, optics, and
astronomy.
How beautifully we may apply analogies of physical science
to our Spiritualism may be pleasantly instanced in looking
at it through chemistry. For example, chemical affinity is
the power which unites two or more unlike bodies to form a
third substance, whose properties differ from those of its con¬
stituents. Chemical affinity, or the capability of union, is not
possessed by all bodies. Let oxygen here represent “spirit,”
as it were, for the sake of spiritual illustration, and let
carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, and the. rest of the known
elements, represent so many “sitters” seances seeking a
“union” or manifestion of its power. The stretch of imagi¬
nation will not be much, and it will happily be an instructive
and pleasant way of making my ideas plain to you on this
delicate subject.
Oxygen is the only element capable of forming compounds,
chemically, with all other elements. Carbon can unite with
sulphur, hydrogen, and some other bodies, but no compound
has been formed between it and gold and silver, fluorine,
aluminium, iodine, bromine, &c. It is said, therefore, to have
“ no affinity ” for these bodies, or no capability of union with
them. The power of union among bodies—or affinity—is ex¬
ceedingly different in degree, and is much affected by many
circumstances, thus:—
A body A may unite with a body B, forming a third body,
AB ; but if a body C had been present, A might have so much
more affinity for C than it has for B as to unite with it, forming
AC, while B would remain unaffected. This, spiritually applied,
will philosophically account in the main for both the pheno¬
mena and force (of spirit), or their entire, or partial absence,
which we discover at our sittings for spiritual investigation.
Sulphuric acid and soda will unite, for example, to form
Glauber’s salts, or sulphate of soda ; but if soda and baryta
had both been present and sulphuric acid were added, only
the sulphate of baryta would be formed and the soda would
remain disengaged. I have known individuals,—and it is a
very common experience with all observers—to try all acces¬
sible mediums, professional and otherwise, and they have
singularly failed to get a single satisfactory manifestation,
while the addition of a third party has instantly affected the
medium and the manifesting “ spirits ” have come in hosts.
The more unlike, as a general thing, any two bodies are, in
chemical properties, the stronger is their disposition to unite.
The metals, as a class (like mortals) have very little disposition
to unite with each other, and when they do, it is not generally
in chemical proportions. But they all unite with oxygen
(spirit) forming fixed and determinate compounds.
The circumstances which modify the action of affinity are
numerous, some of which I will briefly notice, as bearing on
my subject. Chemical affinity exists only among unlike
particles, and at insensible distances. -Intimate contact (being
“ of one heart and of one accord”) among particles is, there¬
fore, in the highest degree necessary to promote chemical
(spiritual) union. It is usual to join “ hands,” but “ hands
without hearts ,” you know. Any circumstance which
favours such contact will increase the activity of, or disposi¬
tion to chemical (or spiritual) combination. Solution—(fair
understanding of the matters to be sought, or “ discussed !”)—
brings particles near together, and leaves them free to move
among each other; substances, therefore, in a state of solu¬
tion (understanding) have, therefore, an opportunity to unite,
which they do not possess when solid (Standing at hateful
distances from one another in ignorance and bigotry!). Carbo¬
nate of soda and tartaric acid, for example, in the dry state will
never unite ; add water, and the dissolution of both will bring
about a perfect union. So the sceptic stands in his relation to
the believer in Spiritualism. They can make no impression
upon each other in the “ dry” state—in dry argumentation—
until the spirit baptizes them with the water of life and the
manifestation of its powers.
Then again there is the “ Atomic theory,” which well illus¬
trates the conditions of human beings, and the action of each
upon the other; but, on the present occasion, my time will
not allow me to touch on it, but nothing is so capable of
making us wise, in the arrangements of our circles for spiri¬
tual investigation, as a proper knowledge of the influences
exerted by one atom upon another, according to the law, or
principle, of what is called capillary attraction. Here are a
number of sitters at a seance, whom we will characterise, for
example, as the various metals. The spirit (we shall say
oxygen) can act upon all these alike one way or another; but
the medium (gold) cannot act upon them in the same generous
manner. She, or he, may do so in spirit, but not in body.
The gold will show its preference for some metal over others ;
and no amount of “ preaching ” or “ coaxing ” can alter the
fact. Thus gold will show its preference for what we call the
base metals, lead and quicksilver, while it will have nothing to
do with iron or steel. The same illustration may be drawn
from the phenomena of capillary attraction seen in the gases
and liquids ; and if any one thing more than another is-ever
destined to explain the true nature and action of Spirit upon
the human organism, and the action of these organisms upon
one another, it is “capillary attraction.”
Therefore, I would advise you, after having heard me this
evening, to consider well the importance attaching to the
selection of men and women in the formation of your circles,
See that your members are all well in health, at least, ere
they take their seats at your tables, and that you are also
arranged like plates in a galvanic battery, man and yroman
alternately, the positive and the negative, and, if possible,
never more in number than seven. Any number of persons
may sit apart in the same room, but not at the experiment-
table. Go seriously to work, and remember that the question
is pre-eminently one of life or death.
The last “chemical” quality of the human organism which
I shall speak about, and, perhaps, the most important, and
investing both body and spirit, is aura. This is the principle
or “element” with which mediums and spirits mutually work,
and which is spring and essence of all “ physical” manifesta¬
tions. Animals and birds, and even insects,' sense us by
this.
“ Every principle .wears appropriate garments,” says A. J.
Davis. “ The life within the blood, like the sensation within
the nerves, puts on an army of many-coloured atmospheres,
compounded of particles derived from within, as grass grows
out of the soil, or hair upon the head. These particles which
form an atmosphere about a person are pleasing or repulsive,
and can be detected by animals like horses and dogs, and,
more especially and certainly, by the impressible sensitives
called mediums. It is this aura going before a person or
trailing along the path the feet have pressed, which makes it
possible for the bloodhound to track the slave, the fond dog
to find his master, or for you to realise when a particular
acquaintance is near your house, or for two silent persons to
think the same thought at the same moment.” Insects will
sting some people and not others. I remember a story about
a sailor who constantly chewed tobacco, and was so saturated
with it that when the cannibals caught him and his mates,
they let him go as uneatable, but dined on his less fortunate
brethren. (Laughter.)
Davis says,-—“ There is a great reality in this atomic
emanation about a person, which, as science progresses, will
lead to great discoveries and social revolutions. It will do
far more than the ten commandments to regulate the marriage
relation and the production of children. Beal individuality
and spiritual status can only be accurately ascertained and
measured by this aural atmosphere, which, in spite of either
wish or will, surrounds a person, preceding and following
him wherever he goes, and under all circumstances indicating
and analysing him more completely than words can impart
ideas to the mind.”
The lecturer then sat down amid loud applause.
THE DISCUSSION'.
Mr. Thomas H. Martin said that on the subject of Spiritual¬
ism he was at variance with most of the listeners present; the
1 atter were sincere and earnest believers in it, whereas he was no
believer in it at all. He thought that the lecturer had given few
arguments in favour of Spiritualism, and he had stated that
some men could go through the world honestly and earnestly
seeking to see manifestations convincing to themselves, yet
might never succeed. If the truth were thus partial and not
universal, away with it, it could not be a truth at all.
Mr. G. B. Tapp said that he was struck by the clever way
in which Dr. McLeod drew analogies between chemical affi¬
nities and the condition of sitters in spirit circles. Dr.
McLeod had spoken of an aura or fluid coming from the
250
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 1, 1873.
fingers of the sitters *, would the lecturer kindly give more
precise definitions of the nature of that fluid ?
Dr. McLeod said in answer to the first speaker, that it was
impossible to let all people see with the same eyes. He
believed human understanding to be one, and that the souls
of all men were en rapport with each other, yet the men
themselves presented an infinity of diversity. Some persons
could not possibly accept Spiritualism ; they did not want
it, and would not have it; he had met with five or six ladies
who intensely desired to be annihilated at death, but he had
not yet met with a man who expressed the same desire.
Newton’s Principia and Euclid’s Elements of Geometry were
two of the greatest works in the English language, full of the
most unquestionable truth. Most of his hearers would pro¬
bably admit their contents to be true, yet when he asked
“ Did they understand the contents?” the reply would probably
in most cases be “ No,” consequently there were some truths
in the world which men accepted on the testimony of others,
and testimony was none the less true on that account. Much
had been published lately about the materialising of spirits,
and not a few persons said that the manifestations were not
real, simply because they were not present, nevertheless their
absence did not alter the fact. His (Dr. McLeod’s) clairvoyant
had seen the materialising process. The spirits drew emana¬
tions from the sitters as well as from the medium ; these
elements they placed in a bath, and, so to speak, electro-
typed the living spirit head or spirit hand which they
wished to make visible to mortals. The sitters see
merely a materialised image, not the real spirit, for
the spirit itself might be brighter than twenty suns. His
clairvoyant could look at the sun at noonday, and she stated
that the sun was not so bright as the spirit of Aristotle, whom
she sometimes saw; she could look steadfastly at phosphorus
burning in oxygen, though the light was so bright that others
could not do so. The spirit, Katie, clothed herself in matter
taken chiefly from Miss Cook, but partly from the other
sitters. In answer to the second question, he could not ex¬
plain the nature of the aura, he could only tell what his
clairvoyant saw. She saw flowing from the fingers of the
sitters a kind of watery substance, which slowly spread over
the surface of the table, and rose to a certain level. The
spirits outside the circle gradually formed a luminous sphere
outside and over the circle, and when a portion of the matter
of this outer sphere was thrown upon that collected on the
table, there was a rap. She had sometimes seen spirits carry¬
ing the matter from the table, and depositing it on objects in
Other parts of the room. He had not seen this, he only
repeated what his sensitive said, and he gave her all credit for
truthfulness.
Mr. Martin said he should like to see a clairvoyant read
writing so placed that she could not see ic by normal vision.
Dr. McLeod said he had seen that a hundred times.
Anybody who wished to see it must seek a clairvoyant, such,
for instance, as Foster ; and the clairvoyant would, probably,
require to be paid for loss of time and vital energy. A gentle¬
man once said, he would bury some gold in a garden ; he
was to do'it on what day and at what time he pleased, and
if Dr. M'Leod’s clairvoyant found it within a few minutes
after entering the garden, she was to keep it. She entered
the garden, saw a luminous star floating in the air which fell
upon one particular spot. She touched the place, but the
influence was so strong that it knocked her down, as gold
always had a strong action upon her when she was in the
clairvoyant state. He dug at the place, and found the
sovereigns. The gentleman who buried them was not present,
so no action of his gave a clue to where the sovereigns were
buried, and the finding of them so impressed him that he
inquired further, and soon became a Spiritualist. The gentle¬
man narrated the incident to Mr. Sutcliffe, of Newcastle-on-
Tyne, who said he should like to see the same thing, and
would bury £5 within an area of half-an-acre. The clair¬
voyant was delighted at the idea; the spirits, however, said
that they would not help her to find it. Their mission was
not to search out money or to gratify idle curiosity.
The usual votes'of thanks to the lecturer and chairman
closed the proceedings, and Dr. McLeod left the meeting
amid a round of applause. The listeners remained in con¬
versational groups for about a quarter of an hour afterwards,
and then dispersed.
Me. C. P. B. Alsop, Baptist minister, intends to recom-
jnend his flock to hold spirit circles. He preaches every
Sunday at the Alpha Hall, 207, Roman Road, Old Ford, Bow.
Services begin at 11 o’clock in the morning, and 6 in the evening.
SPIRITUALISM IN MANCHESTER.
Spiritualism has taken root firmly in Manchester, but it
is in private homes and in private circles that the chief
results are to be found, for the local society of Spiritualists is
a small one, with but few members, a large proportion of
whom formerly belonged to the two Swedenborgian congrega¬
tions in that town.
On Sunday, June 22nd, Mr. J. J. Morse delivered two trance
lectures, one in the morning and the other in the evening, in
the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, Manchester. Mr. J. B.
Stones, of, Blackburn, presided at the morning service, and
Mr. Pearce Parry, of Glasgow, presided in the evening. The
Swedenborgian hymn-book was used at the meetings. Mr.
Charles Blackburn, Miss Blackburn, and the author of the
book Where are the Dead? were present at the morning
meeting. There were large attendances at both of the
meetings, especially in the evening.
In the afternoon there was a meeting under the presidency
of Mr. T. Dandy. The proceedings began with the singing of
a hymn, after which a local medium, Mr. Jackson, rose in the
trance state and uttered a prayer.
The Chairman said—My friends, we have all this afternoon
before us for what may be called an “ experience meeting;”
several friends are here from the surrounding districts, and
we wish to know how the cause is getting on, not only in
Manchester, but in places in the neighbourhood of this town.
We, who have been connected with the movement in Man¬
chester from its commencement, know that it has progressed.
Ten or twelve of us began our investigation by trying experi¬
ments sitting at a table for manifestations; soon we gained
experience in Spiritualism, its facts and teachings, we grew in
numbers, till now sixty or seventy persons on an average attend
our Sunday afternoon meetings. Mediums have developed in
our midst, but some of them have gone back to the slavery of
the world, because they were charged with being insane, and
ridicule deterred them. I know of about twelve mediums in
Manchester who are doing their work quietly, but there are
private circles in the town of which we know very little.
Mr. Fitton, secretary to the society, proposed that the
mediums should begin by relating their experiences, and
that Mr. Morse, of London, should be asked to speak first.
THE DEVELOPMENT OE ME. MOESE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that he did not wish to speak first, but
rose because he had been called on to do so. In the summer
of 1868 he first heard of Spiritualism, through reading the
evidence in the case of Lyon v. Home, and the newspaper
comments thereon; this did not cause him to form a high
opinion either of Mr. Home or of Spiritualists, and the
general conclusion he came to was that Spiritualism was a
first-rate thing to enable mediums to get money, a point on
which he had since been most completely undeceived. He
discovered that he was a medium in consequence of a brace-
button coming off his trousers; he had then no wife or relative
to remedy such mishaps, so he went to a shop in Bishopsgate-
street, London, to buy a needle and thread, and a conversation
was going on in the shop about Spiritualism. Seeing that he
was interested, the shopkeeper lent him two little books, one
of them being Six Months at Rome in Spirit Commmiion, and
the other Cooper’s Experiences with the Davenport Brothers.
The latter book chiefly arrested his attention, because many
intelligent and high people were said to have witnessed the
manifestations, so he thought—“ Either their names arc
printed with their consent or without their consent; if the
former, Spiritualism is a serious thing; if the latter, there is
something worse in Spiritualism than I supposed.” He at
that time was in a situation as barman. He called again at
the shop, asked where he could go to see manifestations, and
was recommended to go to one of Mr. Cogman’s seances, at
the East End. So he went one Sunday, and found Mr.
Cogman to be a venerable old gentleman, old enough to be
his father. There were a good many people present, and he
could see nothing unusual in the room, though he looked
about for signs of concealed apparatus and wires. Several
persons sat round a table ; one of the sitters closed his eyes,
wriggled about a great deal, then made a nice little speech,
at the close of which he said that he was Dr. Young. He (Mr.
Morse) did not believe that the spirit of Dr. Young was
present; the speaker was a sallow, unhealthy looking young
man, and the conclusion he came to was that the poor fellow
was in an abnormal state and very ill. Just as he came to
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
July 1, 1873.
this conclusion, his own brain seemed to open and shut; he
felt as if a shovelfull of sand had been dropped into his head,
and that it was slowly trickling down through his veins, and
he found that he could not rise from his seat. He then felt a
strong desire to shout; he repressed the inclination with all
his power, but at last gave a yell which would have done
credit to a wild Indian, then continued to make such a noise
that fifty or sixty people assembled in the street outside the
house, He was conscious that he was making himself ridi¬
culous, but was utterly helpless. Mr. Cogman said, “ Kind
spirit, give up the control.” He heard Mr. Cogman’s remark,
but did not believe that spirits were influencing him. Soon
afterwards he recovered control of himself and apologised for
the disturbance he had been making. “Oh, never mind,”
said Mr. Cogman, 11 we are used to such things here. I sup¬
pose you never were at a meeting of this kind before ? ”
“No,” he replied, “and I’ll take precious good care I never
am again.” (Laughter.) He was white and trembling, and
when he returned home came to the conclusion that it was
not mesmerism, it was not spirits, but must have been nervous
excitement. Afterwards he discovered that he was a writing
medium, and among other messages he had one which came
from his mother, who told him that Spiritualism came from
God. One day at Mr. Cogman’s, he met Mr. Herne, the
medium, for the first time. Mr. Herne described two spirits
whom he saw by clairvoyance near him (Mr. Morse) ; he
further added that the name of one was “ Thomas ” and of
the other “ Mary; ” certainly the names were right, and his
father and mother had been most accurately described. After
three months severe drilling, through his own mediumship
and that of others, he began to believe that spirits had some¬
thing to do with the matter. He was literally forced into
Spiritualism without any desire on his part. His spirits told
him he would have to work in the cause of Spiritualism, but
he resolved to keep the situation he held, which was as good
a one as any young man similarly circumstanced need desire
to have, but a short time afterwards his employer had to give
up business. When he first began as a medium he had to put
up with the most tremendous abuse. In the first place he was
a professional medium, but how could he help it ? He found
that butchers, bakers, tailors, and those kind of people, did
not supply him with their goods for nothing because he was a
medium, but charged him just the same as they did other
people. In the second place he was a trance medium, and the
public supposed trance mediums to fabricate all their utter¬
ances themselves. He did not wish to be a professional
medium, and if anybody would give him £300 a year, he
would give up professional mediumship, but work as hard as
at present for the good of Spiritualism, so there was a chance
for somebody to do a good action. When the establishment
of his employer collapsed, he went to the shop of Mr. Burns,
the spiritual bookseller, where he also met Mr. Peebles. Mr.
Burns asked him to give a public seance on his premises,
which he did, and since that time his spirit friends by their
ability had won for him the place he had since attained in
connection with Spiritualism; those friends had never deserted
him, and so long as they worked for him, he had made up his
mind to work for them. (Hear, hear.) During the last three
years he had lectured under spirit influence in different parts
of the country, and he found Spiritualism to be spreading
everywhere. Not long since he was in Preston, and was
abused by the ministers and the public. press; but spirit
circles were formed in consequence, and manifestations ob¬
tained, so that at the present time there was very much
Spiritualism in Preston. Four weeks ago he gave stances at a
private house in Dorchester, and after he" left he heard that
some of the people there “ wondered why God Almighty per¬
mitted such a man as him to live.” Eeally he was disposed to
be restive under such abuse as that; he was a quiet, inoffen¬
sive person, who tried to lead an upright, honest life, and if
God Almighty was frightened by honesty, he was sorry for it.
One gentleman in the town took the trouble to have half-a-
dozen texts from the Bible printed, as opposed to Spiritualism,
and circulated them in every house ; but as all the texts
quoted stated the reality of Spiritualism they did no harm,
and caused copies of his trance lecture to be circulated in
opposition.
THE EINDlNd OE A BODY THEOUGH TABLE MESSAGES.
Mr. Jackson, a medium, then addressed the meeting for an
hour. He said he first heard of Spiritualism while living in
Yorkshire nine years ago, when he went on Sundays to hear
trance addresses delivered through the mediumship of a blind
man, Mr. John Blackburn, of Halifax. While Mr. Blackburn
was being entranced, there were table motions, and his breath¬
ing was checked, but directly he was fully entranced, his
breathings was steady, as before. Mr. Blackburn’s addresses
were very orthodox, and he (Mr. Jackson) was delighted with
what he heard.. About four years ago, a cousin of his wife’s
suddenly disappeared, and no trace of him could be found ;
this was at Hyde, near Manchester. He could not be found
after three weeks’ search, and the dragging of all the waters
in the neighbourhood. Then he had to go on a rainy day to
Stockport, and called, drenched through with rain, to see an
old woman, who was a medium; they sat at a table which
made creaking noises for a time, then spelt out “ John
Charlesworth ”—the name of the deceased—who told him in
what water his body was. “ But the police have searched
that,” was his reply. John Charlesworth answered, “ That his
body could not be found at all unless the water was run out.”
Afterwards he had a seance in his own house, and received
the same message. He then called upon the owner of the
mill driven by the water in question, and asked him to run off
the water, but did not state why he supposed the body to be
there rather than elsewhere. The water was then run off
four feet, and it took three days to do it; he then found the
body, and got it out with a rake.* Soon after that he began
to feel spiritual influences at seances acting upon his arms and
legs; his body was twisted and twirled about very much every
evening; after many sittings he became more passive, and
gradually became a trance medium. He never sat for mani¬
festations without first offering a prayer to his Heavenly
Father.
Mr. Johnson, a Manchester medium, said that he would not
take up the time of the meeting by saying anything about
himself ; he would rather that other speakers should state
what was doing in the surrounding district.
MISCELLANEOUS EXPEKIENCES IN SPIBITUALISM.
Mr. Edwin Hernshaw said that he began four years ago
to investigate Spiritualism and was disappointed with it;
in fact he had not been converted notwithstanding his
prolonged inquiry. Spiritualists admitted he ought to
believe nothing but what appealed to his own under¬
standing—(Hear, hear)—and although he had sat night
after night, he had not been convinced. It was true he
had had messages through tables, but that did not prove to
him the communications came from spirits. He had heard
Mr. Morse, but that did not convince him, although he wanted
to be convinced. He had lost his wife and child, but no
message from them had ever come to him, earnestly as he
desired one. He was disappointed in Spiritualism after work¬
ing at it for four years.
Mr. Kenyon said that on several occasions his life had been
remarkably preserved. In 1808, while a little boy in petti¬
coats, a cow carried him twenty yards, and pushed him against
a stone, without serious injury resulting. In 1813 he was
caught in the upright shaft of a mill, and kept there till the
man stopped the engine, yet he was not hurt or afraid. In
1824 he was going into a building, when something said
“ Turn back ; ” he did so, and had not walked twenty yards
before the building fell to its foundation.
A Voice—How are we to know that these are facts ?
Mr. Kenyon—By my speaking of them. (Laughter and
cheers.) He had found Spiritualism to be a thing which
guided and guarded him. One Sunday night he went to a
seance in Bridgewater-street, and asked the spirits how long
ago his wife died ; they told him exactly, and all the talking
in"the world would never convince him that there was nothing
in Spiritualism. There was a fact in it—a positive fact.
Mr. Pearce Parry narrated that while in Glasgow the Eev.
J. Page Hopps called his attention to Spiritualism, and he
began, with a few friends, to investigate the subject. The
lady of the house became a writing medium ; messages would
be given through her hand with great rapidity, often written
backwards and bottom upwards; another friend became a
trance medium, and the servant spoke wonderfully in the
trance condition. She told him the name of depeased rela¬
tives and friends of his, and he obtained a/iammiZe at a seance
of the handwriting of his departed wife. He was a Welshman,
and had to learn English when he first came to Manchester.
One day a medium, a young man named Simpson, called upon
him saying he was “forced to come,” and proceeded to go
into a trance. He did not wish anything of the kind, he
* Mr. Jackson is. a medium. Had he an idea that the body was in the
place where it was found before he held the two seances f If so, it would
raise the question as to the possibility of the messages having been derived
in some unconscious way from his own thoughts.—Ed.
252
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
July 1, 1873.
shook the medium, tried to wake him up, but it was no good ;
soon the medium began to talk Welsh to him, and said he was
his (Mr. Pearce’s) mother, and clasped him round the neck. The
medium could not speak Welsh when in his normal state. He
had found out that it was not necessary to sit round a table to
discover if anybody possessed physical mediumship ; sitting
quietly and holding a walking-stick horizontally would do;
recently, by means of a walking-stick, he discovered five or
six mediums in one Scotch family; the stick, by its signals,
spelt out the name of the deceased eldest son “ Willie” on the
first trial, and gave messages from him.
A speaker here rose in the body of the hall, who said that
several persons would be glad to see as facts, what had been
stated to be facts. He had tried more than five years, and
had seen nothing. Why did not Mr. Pearce produce a walk¬
ing-stick and show the experiment before them ?
The Chairman—With reference to the experiences of some of
our friends, they will get no good if they go to public-houses
to investigate Spiritualism. If the intentions of inquirers are
not holy and pure, they will either get nothing, or something
related to their own nature.
Mr. Hernshaw—We went to a respectable inn, and took a
private room for the purpose. I asked my neighbours, who
said they would as soon have the devil in the house at once as
a circle.
Mr. Rowcroft said that he obtained table manifestions about
five years ago, and was the first medium influenced in Hyde.
If tables moved—or if a human body were floated round a
room, that was no proof of Spiritualism, but if some of the
sceptical speakers present had had intelligent communications
he held the opinion that those messages came from spirits.
The fact would not be the less true because the said speak¬
ers denied it. Mr. Johnson came to Hyde an atheist,
but since he had become one of the best mediums in Man¬
chester. He (Mr. Rowcroft) had a friend in Hyde, who was
a medium, but who did not believe that the phenomena were
produced by spirits.
Mr. Morse said that the objectors admitted the phenomena,
and that they had obtained intelligent messages; perhaps
they were not yet in the mental and spiritual state fitting
them to receive Spiritualism.
Another speaker rose and began to start theological ob¬
jections to Spiritualism, and to misquote some previous
utterances.
The Chairman said he could not hear him further because
of his talk being foolish.
The meeting then came to a close in consequence of the
time being up.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.
A TEST SEAETCE—MEDITJMSHIP AND INSANITY—ME.
eingsley’s medilmship.
Last Tuesday night one of the usual weekly evening meet¬
ings for the consideration of subjects in connection with
Spiritualism was held at the residence of Mr. Cogman, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road.
Mr. Cogman read a letter from Professor Rayes, to the effect
that illness prevented his attendance to deliver his advertised
lecture. Mr. Cogman therefore thought that the time of the
meeting might be profitably occupied if some of the gentlemen
present would narrate their experiences in Spiritualism, after
which there might be a seance, as there was a new physical
medium present. He would call on Mr. Alsop to address the
meeting.
Mr. C. P. B. Alsop, of High Holborn, said that on that occa¬
sion he desired only to give the particulars of a remarkable
seance he had during his recent visit to America. A doctor of
divinity there—a good man, but one who, like Nicodemus of
old, did not make public his belief in Spiritualism—introduced
him to a medium. Afterwards he called upon the medium
and found him alone; the medium at once went into the
trance state, and said, “ Your father stands by you on your
right side, and I see now your mother. I see your sister.
There is another sister. There are your father, mother, and
two sisters. I see a little child—that child is yours. I see
another, also yours. Yes, I see your father, mother, two
sisters, and two little children.” Then the medium rose from
his chair with tears pouring down his cheeks, took him (Mr.
Alsop) by the hand, and said, “ I am your brother William.”
The tears then burst forth in his own eyes; he felt that he
Was indeed in the presence of all the departed relatives who
had been so accurately mentioned by a medium three thousand
miles from England, who could not possibly have obtained
the information from any external source. He was fully con¬
vinced that upon that occasion he was in communication with
the world of spirits. He (Mr. Alsop) preached on Sundays at
Old Ford, Bow, and, as the congregation increased, he hoped
that the members would form circles, and open up communi¬
cation with the spirit world. He hoped that a holy devotional
feeling would pervade the circles, so as to bring down the
highest influences from the realms above, bring down the
spirits of just men made perfect, and he saw no harm in call¬
ing upon the Saviour who spoke such words of love and kind¬
ness to all mankind; they might just as well desire His
presence as that of John King, for nobody had ever yet set the
world a better example of goodness and purity.
A lady here went into the trance state, and delivered a
sensible address of about ten minutes’ duration, which we
have not space at present to publish. She then left the rooms
for some time, going out apparently in a state of nervous ex¬
citement.
The Chairman expressed his pleasure at hearing that Mr.
Alsop, who was formerly a Baptist minister at Old Ford, was
resuming Sunday services there, and that he intended to call
the attention of his flock to Spiritualism. The lady who had
just left the rooms had been brought there twelve months since
in a state of insanity; he (Mr. Cogman) was entranced, and
made to modify the influence about her, but ten days after¬
wards she was in an asylum. He told her husband that she
would come round again, and his hearers would be pleased to
learn that the address she had just uttered was the longest and
most sane she had ever delivered. She was a woman with a
small brain, but with the organ of veneration largely developed,
and when the medial power first came to her-it overbalanced
her mind for a time. He believed that many poor creatures
supposed to be lunatics, and afterwards made lunatics by
erroneous treatment, might have been saved if doctors knew
more about mediumship. People with large brains were not
usually attacked violently in the early stage of their develop¬
ment as mediums. Mrs. Daniels, Mr. Morse, Mr. Herne, Miss
Young, and others had their mediumship developed in his
house. Mr. Morse and Mrs. Daniels went raving at first. He
found that when a new medium was so attacked he could re¬
move the violent influence by taking the medium into a
separate room, and making “ back passes” over his head; as
he had given much attention to psychology and the laws of
mind, mediums developed more safely in his presence.
Mr. H. Ganney, of 1a, Clifton-road, Maida-vale, said that
his friend Mr. Kingsley, then present, had developed as a
powerful medium through sitting a few times at Mr. Cogman’s,
although a few months ago he knew nothing of Spiritualism.
He and two of his friends recently saw Mr. Kingsley float
round a room and disappear through the closed door; when
the door was opened, Mr. Kingsley was found outside. Another
time he disappeared near the ceiling, and after being absent
from the room for twenty minutes, he (Mr. Ganney) saw him
come back like a cloud falling from the ceiling upon the bed.
These events took place in moderately subdued light. He did
not expect anybody to believe these statements ; he would not
have accepted them himself on testimony, but they were never¬
theless true. A friend of Mr. Kingsley’s was also a powerful
medium. They had given two seances to Dr. Lynn, the con¬
juror, and puzzled him, and at the same time had made
thorough converts to Spiritualism of Dr. Lynn’s two assistants.
The spirits who gave these physical manifestations did not
profess to teach very high truths, but they gave physical facts
which could not be denied.
A seance was then held, at which nothing took place, except
that Mr. Cogman had some strange visions. Mr. Kingsley had
given a seance earlier in the day, so probably the power was
weak.
Me. Moese’s Medittmship.—Mr. J. J. Morse has long
been known as the chief of our English inspirational public
speakers ; some time ago he gave up his situation as assistant
in Mr. Burns’s shop, and since then he has been working inde¬
pendently upon his own account, trusting wholly to his trance
mediumship as a source of income. The value of his medium-
ship is fully appreciated by Spiritualists; he is frequently
engaged to deliver public trance addresses in Liverpool and
Manchester, and when we met him recently in the latter
town, he was full of engagements for private seances. When
he delivers trance lectures in London there is usually a full
attendance. Many Spiritualists who have watched his pro¬
gress for some years, will be glad to hear of his present suc¬
cessful career.
July 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
258
Otamspontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
MESSES. MASKELYNE AND COOKE’S PEEEOEMANCE.
Sib,—Since my last letter appeared in your number of
the 15th May, I have seen some reason to modify what I
therein stated. I have now seen the “ Davenport trick ” three
times, and “Will, the Witch, and Watch” four times, and
have been on the stage five times. I think that in saying that
“ they did everything that I have seen the Davenports do,”
my memory as to what I saw the Davenports do was very likely
at fault, as I only saw them once or twice many years ago. I
was also, perhaps, wrong in putting their performance on a
par with the manifestations through Miss Florence Cook.
It is evident that they vary their modus operandi from time
to time, so as to dodge their critics ; for instance, you say in
your note that witnesses have told you that Maskelyne and
Cooke do the essential part of the tying themselves, and Dr.
Sexton also says that they were not tied to their seats by the
committee. On each occasion when I saw them, they were
completely tied by the committee for the first part of
the cabinet performance (which, no doubt, is very inferior to
the second part). Many other things that I saw them do
were directly opposed to Dr. Sexton’s experience. For instance,
there has always been a most palpable duplicate butcher
when I have seen “ Will and the Witch.”
The looking-glass in this last performance is distinctly
visible to anyone with good eyes, or an indifferent opera-glass,
who knows where to look for it.
If they are mediums, they are naturally most anxious to
conceal the fact, lest their profits should diminish and them¬
selves be scouted and vilified by the non-spiritual public, both
of which results would, of course, follow their detection.
Algeknon Jot.
17, Parliament-street, Westminster, S.W., June 26th, 1873.
DE. GTJLEY ON SPIEITTTALISM.
Sib,—I cannot refrain from writing to you to say how gra¬
tified I am by Dr. Gully’s papers on “ Spiritualism.” I hope
they will be collected in a volume some day, as they are emi¬
nently calculated to show how much true philosophy and
intellectual ability are ranged on the side of our great cause.
I cannot, however, quite follow him in his denunciation of
sects, churches, and scientific men. It is quite true that all
human corporate organisations are liable in time to become
stagnant, apathetic, dogmatic, intolerant, and formalistic;
but the frequent and almost inevitable result should not lead
us to infer that the formation of societies for the propagation
of certain forms of truth is impolitic and unwise, although
these societies may ultimately degenerate. To give practical
and useful effect to our ideas, we must not neglect “to
assemble ourselves together,” and organise our teaching in
some tangible and authoritative shape.
With regard to men of science, I think, the more eminent
they are the more we ought to struggle to win them over to
our side. Dr. Gully is himself a refutation of his own argu¬
ment. He was a distinguished man of science before he
became a Spiritualist, and now we could not easily find a
more potent “ defender of the faith ” than he has shown him¬
self to be. “ Babes and sucklings ” are all very well as dis¬
ciples in their way; but for leaders jve want trained and
cultivated men: the higher their endowments the better
champions they must become ; and there is no mind so great
that it will not be improved and elevated by a thorough study
of Spiritualism. Newton Ceosland.
Blackheath, 17th June, 1873.
PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCES AMONG THE LOWEE ANIMALS.
Sie,—We have many of us seen people who are quite
illiterate in their normal state, become the reverse when in
the spiritual or ordinary mesmeric trance. It has occurred to
me that it might be possible to carry this a stage further, and
in a manner which, i/successful, would have a weight which
no other phenomena have, as yet, possessed.
I propose that all those who have access to, or keep
monkeys, should endeavour to mesmerise them, or take them
into developing circles; for if illiterate people, when entranced,
can (and do) write and speak in foreign tongues, why should
not a monkey, when entranced, write if not speak, when under
“ control?”
If any difficulty be experienced in getting the monkey
under control, the following aids might be tried, as they have
great effect upon some people, and help them into the trance
state when mesmerism alone is insufficient:—
1. Breathe a little sulphuric ether ; it should be very pure,
and not made from methylated spirit.
2. Chloroform; ditto, ditto.
3. Indian hemp (very effective.)
4. Belladonna, given in quarter-grain doses.
When once the trance state is well induced, these should be
discontinued, because the communications are not likely to be
of any value if the body be in an abnormal state.
Only get a few monkeys, who, when entranced, can write
(or speak), and no lack of money will be experienced for the
further prosecution of the subject, T, E. R.
[As high aspirations and pure thoughts in a medium and all the members
of the circle, are desirable to secure high revelations and good manifestations,
and safety from the occasional tricks of malicious spirits, it is not likely
that the introduction of a monkey to a developing circle will improve
conditions or conduce to spirituality. On the other hand, scientific experi¬
ments as to the influence of mesmerism or sulphuric ether on the lower
animals might be useful. Some animals are certainly sensitive to mesmeric
influences; we know an editor of a London scientific newspaper who
mesmerised a kitten till it became insensible, and its body quite limp, when
he carried it about the room by its tail. Will our readers bring forward
what facts they can about the psychology of the lower animals ? Do dogs
dream? Are the statements true that dogs and horses often see spirits,
when men with normal vision cannot do so ? Is it anything but the influ¬
ence of their own fear which causes birds sometimes to be fascinated by
snakes ? The great value of any discussion, on a subject like this, will
consist in a full authentication of the circumstances stated, by the writers
publishing their names and addresses.—Ed.]
THE BEY. J. MUEEAY SPEAE.
Sib,—The following is a list of the subscriptions received
for the fund for Mr. Spear:—B. L, £10; A. L. Elder, Esq.,
£5; Mrs. Gregory, £5; Thomas Grant, Esq., £5; Mr. Tebb,
£5; Dr. Newton, £2; Mr. G. N. Strawbridge, £l Is.; Mrs. G.
N. Strawbridge, £1 Is.; Mrs. Cooper, £1; A Friend, £1. .
Maby E. Tebb.
20, Rochester-road, Camden-town, N.W.,
June 24th, 1873.
[Subscriptions may be remitted to Mrs. Tebb.—Ed.]
MR. PEEBLES IN NEW ZEALAND.
The Otago Daily Times of March. 24th, published in
Dunedin, New Zealand, contains the following report:—
The Queen’s Theatre was crowded, especially in the lower
part, to its utmost capacity last evening, to hear farewell
addresses from Messrs. Peebles and Dunn, who leave on
Tuesday for Hong Kong.
Dr. Dunn made one or two personal explanations before
speaking on the subject of hia address, which was, “ The
Want of a New Religion.” Referring to a quotation from
the “ Biography of Mr. Peebles,” which appeared in the
Daily Times, and which, without explanation, might leave
the impression that he had been a horse-thief, a spy, and a
forger, he said that when living with his widowed mother, in
Sandusky, Ohio, he was carried off in the night when only
nine years old, by a gang of horse thieves, who kept him for
nine months in the Black Swamp, when he made his escape,
and the information which he gave led to their apprehension
and punishment. When about seventeen years old, he was
picked up by Mr. Peebles, who trained and educated him,
and made him what he was. Having made this explanation,
and another referring to Dr. Copland, he contrasted Chris¬
tianity as it existed at present in the world with what it
should be as taught by Christ, and argued that the time had
come for the inauguration of a new religion. If man would
look within, and examine his own heart, he would find therein
love for his fellow-man, which had been turned from its true
object by the teachings of a corrupted Christianity. As he
lived in and by others, it was his duty to live for others.
Mr. Peebles said he was brought up in the Calvinistic faith,
and had often asked the question,—“ If angels communed with
men in ancient times, why not now ? ” At length, the faith
which he had in their existence, and that of immortality, was
converted into knowledge. He was no sectarian now, but he
believed it would be better for a man to be an orthodox
Christian, and live an upright, honest, pure, and Christlike
life than to be a Spiritualist, and lead a life of dishonesty
and vice. He cherished no ill-feeling towards the clergy.
254
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July tj 1873.
Why should he ? He had been for many years a clergyman,
himself, and he was just as sincere then as he had been since.
In America he often exchanged pulpits with clergymen, but
he had been here almost two months, and not a pulpit was
opened to him. He expressed his thanks for all the kindness
shown to him and his friend during their stay in Dunedin.
Their meetings were largely attended, and choice friendships
were formed. The press had treated them with great fair¬
ness and impartiality, and the kindness and hospitality of
their friends would never be forgotten. He said they would
leave now for China, on their way home, by China, India,
Ceylon, Palestine, and England.
The amount taken at the doors was £18 3s. 10d., which
would leave about £11 for the benefit of the Benevolent
Institution.
During his stay in New Zealand, the utterances of Mr.
Peebles caused much contention among the preachers; the
Eev. Dr. Copland attacked Spiritualism in a public lecture,
and, according to i\iQtOtago Times of March 24th, alleged it to
be founded upon imposture.
The visit of Mr. Fegan-Egerton, the chief physical
medium in Liverpool, to London was postponed in conse¬
quence of an attack of bronchitis. He will be in London in
about ten days’ time, and remain in town for a week, during
which period he will be ready to enter into engagements for
seances. His address is 22, Martensen Street, Wavertree Road,
Liverpool.
A new boob: entitled While the u Boy” Waits, by Mr. J.
Mortimer Granville, and published by Mr. Erowde,Paterhoster-
row, is one of the cleverest we have seen for some time, not¬
withstanding its eccentric title. It consists of essays, some of
them witty and all of them thoughtful, about various power¬
ful social influences. We strongly recommend it to the notice
of all who are interested in the study of the moral forces now
governing English society.
Spiritualism in Walsall.—At present Spiritualism is
at a low ebb in Walsall, there being only about a dozen
thorough Spiritualists in the town, and perhaps two dozen
other persons to some extent interested in the subject. There
is a trance medium there, Mr. William Russell, who was first
influenced about eighteen months ago. Mr. Blinkhorn also
works actively in the endeavour to promote the spreading of
Spiritualism in Walsall.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—A letter received by us
from Mr. John Lamont, just before going to press, states that
last Sunday Mr. J. J. Morse gave a logical and interesting
trance address in Liverpool, in which he attacked the theo¬
logical ideas that the world had been formerly destroyed by a
flood, and would hereafter be destroyed by fire. On the pre¬
ceding Sunday, Miss Barlow delivered a trance address in
Liverpool; the teachings were of a Swedenborgian character.
We hope to publish one of Mr. Morse’s Liverpool trance
lectures in our next.
Baron Louis Guluenstubbe.—One of our most eminent
Spiritualists, the Baron Louis Guldenstubbe, departed this
life on the 27th May, at his residence, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris,
in his 53rd year. The Baron was principally known by his
studies and researches in the science of positive and experi¬
mental Pneumatology, to which he contributed several valu¬
able works and considerations, amongst which may be espe¬
cially mentioned his contribution upon direct spirit-writing,
La Lealite des Esyrits et le Phenomene Merveilleux de leur
Ecriture Directe, obtained between the mediumship of himself
and his sister, the Baroness Guldenstubbe. These experi¬
ments rendered him very notorious in Paris at one period,
and the police are alleged to have interfered, at the instiga¬
tion of the Jesuits, to stay the results he obtained from the
sepulchral monuments of the city. Of Swedish origin, Baron
Guldenstubbe belonged to an ancient Scandinavian family of
great historical renown. Two of his ancestors, Knights of the
Order of the Grand Templars, and of the same name, were burnt
alive in 1309, in company with Jacques de Melay, by order of
Pope Clement the Eifth. The pedigree of the family shows
many illustrious alliances. The Baron Guldenstubbe lived a
very retired and sober life, associating with none but sympa¬
thisers with his studies. He will'ever be affectionately remem¬
bered for his noble, gentle, and urbane nature; for his
numerous liberal and unassuming charities. He was unmarried,
but found a dear companion and aid in the person of his
accomplished and erudite sister, the Baroness Guldenstubbe.
—Spiritual Magazine.
He is most free whose freedom slavery itself cannot take
away, and over whom fear and desire have no power.
Clear writers, like clear fountains, do not seem so deep
as they are: the turbid look the most profound.
An attempt is being made at the East-end. of London to
form a new local Spiritual society, to meet weekly at Mr.
Cogman’s Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s Road, Mile-end.
Mb. Yolckman has recently issued a pamphlet published
by Messrs. Trubner and Co., suggesting practical methods of
reducing the poverty which afflicts the larger portion of the
English people. He, of course, recommends very great changes
in the land laws, which are the cause of so much national
suffering.-
With reference to the list of subscriptions for the fort¬
nightly publication of The Spiritualist, we have received
nearly all we asked for in support of the step of making such
a large addition to the literature of Spiritualism. We shall be
glad of any further immediate support from well-wishers, and
the list will shortly be closed.
To-bat’s number of the Spiritual Magazine has a para¬
graph headed “A Misstatement Corrected,” under which the
editor asserts that the author of Where are the Dead ? wrote
to the Spiritualist newspaper “ in correction of one of its mis¬
statements.” The author in question did not correct any mis¬
statement, and we do not think that good feeling is promoted
or Spiritualism aided by an editor drawing thus upon the
powers of his imagination for the benefit of his readers.
Dr. Sexton a Trance Medium.—To-day’s number of
the Christian Spiritualist contains a report, four columns long,
of a seance at which Dr. Sexton, of London, was the medium,
and gave a trance address from the spirit of Robert Owen;
further, it appears from the report that Dr. Sexton is also a
seeing medium, for he saw the spirit of Robert Owen. The
same paper also announces that Dr. George Sexton is a
“ Christian Spiritualist,” and that the editor announces him
as such at Dr; Sexton’s own request. The present number of
the Christian Spiritualist, therefore, contains some unexpected
news about our new lecturer.
BIREBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks,
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENS CROFT, Manager.
A AAA Ready to be ADVANCED by the TEM-
owtlA, AlAA PERANCE PERMANENT LAND AND BUILDING
SOCIETY on Freehold and Leasehold Property, for any period of years
not exceeding fifteen, the Mortgage being redeemable by equal Monthly
Instalments. Interest (in addition to a small premium) 5 per cent, on the
balance each year.
Apply to HENRY J. PHILLIPS, Secretary.
Offices: 4, Ludgate Hill, London, E.O.
Note.—More than One Million and a Half Pounds Sterling have been
advanced upon House Property alone.
DR. HUGH McLEOD (duly qualified in Medicine and
Surgery), HEALS BY SPIRIT POWER, and with very great suc¬
cess. He visits patients in London or suburbs, and at his temporary re¬
sidence,
4, ALMA COTTAGES, CHESNUT ROAD, TOTTENHAM, N.
Fees: London or Suburbs, 21s.; Tottenham, 10s. 6d. The poor, who
can’come to the latter place, free. Cases which present extraordinary fea¬
tures submitted to a thoroughly trained clairvoyante, and without additional
charge.
Dr. McLeod is prepared to make arrangements for the delivery of ad¬
dresses on the Logic and Science of Spiritualism. His lectures are original,
and delivered extempore. Terms (easy) on application.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1883.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
BEVERIDGE & ERASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
JtJlY lj 1873.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
BUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmterising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5. p.m. Private Seances
attended at the bouses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
6s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 6s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mr. j. j. morse, trance-medium, is open to
receive engagements in London or the provinces, to attend Seances,
or address public meetings. Mr. Morse holds a Seance every Friday even¬
ing at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southampton-row, W.C., when he is in London,
where letters, &c., may be addressed, or to his private residence, Warwick
Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, is at Home daily (Sundays excepted) between Twelve
and Six o’clock, to hold Private Seances.* Terms—Five Shillings each
visitor. 46, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury (directly opposite the British
Museum).
TO MANCHESTER SPIRITUALISTS.—A number of
investigators wish to make arrangements for Mrs. Olive, Trance and
Test Medium, to visit Manchester. Those who are willing to join in form¬
ing circles or having private seances during her short visit to this place, are
requested to communicate with me as soon as possible.—Richard Fitton,
34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
EPPS’S COCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestioh and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors' bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London,
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
PIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-priuted Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
publifc resort.
E. W.. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.O.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from .. ... 3 0 0
Vests ~  0 7 0 | Unrivalled Black Doe . 110
Tweed Suit      £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
ELECTRO-BIOLOGY, THE BASIS OF SPIRITUALISM.
PROFESSOR RAYES IS OPEN TO ENGAGEMENTS
for Experimental Lectures; also to teach Psychology for Scientific,
Recreative, or Healing purposes. Patients visited by appointment, and
help given to Investigators of Spiritualism in the formation of Private
Circles. A Practical Instruction Book, entitled Electro-Biology Explained,
or, The Principles of Psychic Control in Health and Disease, may be had by
those unable to take Private -Lessons. Address, 38, Blissett-street, Green¬
wich, S.E.
Price 6<L Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEATEN OPENED.—Part H. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism,
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
WANTED.—The First Number of the First Yolume of
the Spiritual Magazine, to complete six volumes for binding.
Address—Secretary of thej|Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiri¬
tualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
-Established 1842.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
9 Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &e. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d, Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spiritualist —
£ s. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq       ... 15 0 0
“ A Friend at a Distance ”       ... 10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
“A Friend.” '     ... 5 5 0
M. Alexandre Aksakof (St, Petersburg) ...     ... 5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq.    5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq     ... 5 0 0
O. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S    5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox      5 0 0
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)      5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart >, -.     5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq     5 0 0
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq. ... |  ... ...   ... ... ... 5 0 0
Justice         5 0 0
F. S. A      5 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D     5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder... ...      10 0
Miss E. Ponder        ... 1 0 0
Mrs. Rudd   10 0
“Longfellow”      1 0 0
Mr. Withall    10 0
Mr. E. Bird   ... ... ,.v ... ... 10 0
Mr. George Dawson    ...    10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers      10 0
Mr. Rogers         ... 10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald       ... 10 0
Mrs. Gunyon... ... ... ... ... ... ... ,,, 10 0
  8 0 0
“Bitterness”    ... ...    ... 4 4 0
“A Friend” (Temple)   ..;    ... ... ... 330
N. F. Daw, Esq.   ... ... 3 3 O'
Richard Beamish, Esq.. F.R.S   ... -  3 3 0
James Wason, Esq     3 3 0
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D,... ... „    ... ... 3 8 0
Algernon Joy, Esq   ... ... 2 10 0
The Countess of Caithness    ...    ... ... 2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston        ... ... ... ...2 2 0
G. NelsOn Strawbridge, Esq          2 2 0
John Beattie, Esq.  * ... ...    2 0 0
“A Friend” (Bloomsbury)   ... ... ... 2 2 0
Mrs. Hennings   .... ... .„ ...   2 0 0
“A Friend "(Manchester)   ... ...    ...110
Benjamin Coleman, Esq  ...   1 1 0
E. Musgrave, Esq,       ...    110
“V.”... ...     ... ... ... ... .,. ... ... ... ... 110
A Clergyman of the Church of England   1 1 0
B. W. Pycock, Esq. ... ... ...    ... ... ...110
Arthur Maltby, Esq         ,v 110
William L. Shearwood, Esq, ...   ... ...   1 1 0
G, Thomson, Esq., M.D •   ... ...10 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell      ...    1 0 0
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)     ... ... 1 0 0
-“A Friend,” F.R.S. ... '        ... 1 0 0
Miss Kislingbury     ... ...      1 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  '...   ,.. ... 10 0
Miss J. H. Douglas    ...      ...    1 O' 0
“A Friend” ... ...   ...        10 0
JohnE. Purdon, Esq,, M.B.          1 0 0
J. Craig, Esq. ... .     ... .;  0 10 6
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account   0 8 0
Subscriptions in aid of this object maybe remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman.chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq., Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood^ or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
256
THIS SPIRITUALIST.
July 1, 1873.
BOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those w&o have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional' medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action;—-
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with .all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, hut when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may he obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Behef or unbelief
has no "ihfluence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members-of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan'proposed, andfromthis time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should he put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting thepaselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to tegt the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body. ■ ^
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,'
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somejv-hat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spibitualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G..Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added, to- the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. "Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.” ,
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im-
posthre.’’
British imperial insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL—£200,000 IN 200,000 SHARKS OF £1 EACH.
Head Offices: BBOWN STBEET AND MABSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STBEET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frkdbriok Batford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
Chester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminste
London. „
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57$, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.E.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British Imperial ”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience. .
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIEE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.O., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Jjl E M A L E MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, &c.,
• 238, STAFFOBD-STBEET, WALSALL. The Spiritualist and
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Ruling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, l$d. per
packet, 4s. 6d.' per 1,000. Albums, scraps,- ladies’ satchels, &c,, in great
variety. Printing.—W. B. having entered into partnership with Mr.
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards (without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Orders promptly attended to.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, .geances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
