AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 129.—(Vol. YI.—No. 7.) LONDON : FEBRUARY 12j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
arontentsL
the Council-
Disorganisation among American Spiritualists  
The Sleeping Girl of Turville    
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism ..
The Spirit and the Body     
Theological Objections to Spiritualism  
National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of
Spiritual Society in Brixton—Longfellow’s Relationship to Spirit¬
ualism—Andrew Jackson Davis on Impersonality—New Members
—Finance Committee’s Report—Offices for the Natibnal Associa¬
tion; Limited Liability of the Members—Monthly Soirees—Spiritual
Periodicals—Lectures and Seances in the Provinces—Furnishing the
New Offices—Sunday Services   ... 78
National Association Soiree   ...   80
Revelation by Vision   ... ...   .... 81
Correspondence:—Spirit Identity, 82; Travelling in the Spirit, 83; Aid
for Mr. Wallace, the Medium, 83; Spiritualism in Edinburgh, 83; .
Mrs. Woodforde’s Medinmship    ...      84
The Physiological Action of Light  ... 84
Paragraphs:—Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s, 74; Seance with Mr.
Williams, 82; Thought Reading „. ... ...   
84
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 <f- 26 Fief., cap. 89,)
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., C. N. C. Hutton, Esq., J.P., Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq, Alderman, M. E. Marsden, Es i R B Martin, Esq., M.A.,
F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J. C.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Loveldck and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
“ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
‘ A.” Death only.
“ B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
<5 a
SM
£
1000
500
250
100
1000
500
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
£ s. d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
6 0 0
3 0 0
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
110
0 11 6
2 2 0
13 0
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6
Paymt
within
Two Yrs
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6
Forms, Prospectuses, and further particulars on application'to
MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
F’ PARSES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings it, la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sit tins, Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Gamden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month, until fiurther notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 6,30 to 10 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub <
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,
Notting-hill, Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN’S LECTURES ON, SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Commencement of the Second Course
UPON THE 1 SOUL AND SPIRIT OP MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening.
Doors open at 6.30, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors.
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr. Webster
Glynes, 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
EIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
• Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds,* Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on M> ndays from 10 till 9, and ©n Saturdays
frorr 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing all particulars may be obtained gratis,
or serost free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathfsdrale,-Libge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
X> EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychblogiques,
-I_V) foude par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M.-Leymarie.
iig
iite
li
;v'.
E¥i
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Peb. 12, 1875.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Eussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr: Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mra.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery, of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
, 1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9 th, 1874.
TfllAST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS. — LEC-
JLU TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
MARYLEBONE association of inquirers into
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
mWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
A and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—/See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists 6r not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London Simprin, Marshall & Co.
Mesmerism, electro-biology, fascination.
How to produce sleep upon any person with certainty. Why do
Mesmerists fail ? &c. M. Rigg, Teacher of Mesmerism, &c., by post or ap¬
pointment. How to produce all those curious stage phenomena, he can
teach efficiently by post.
M. Rigg, practical mesmerist, 17, Pakenham-street, London, W.C.
Advice in all cases of disease. Pamphlet, &c,, gratis, by post, Id.
stamp.
T) THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Animal, magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. OSered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown Svo., price 2s.
TFTYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
JLJL Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
• Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
\ JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and, 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinfling, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, .by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Turee Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where T/ie
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained. *
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, .Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-hquse-yard, Paternoster-row, E.O.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLAGE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed
liberal discount for cash.
Thus. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, cir¬
culating LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Associations, Seances, dec., to be obtained on appUcation. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
0 SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
IMPORTANT TO INVALIDS!!!
MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS BY LOCK OE HAIR!!!
MR. AND MRS. E. H. GREEN, TRANCE SPEAKERS
AND CLAIRVOYANT PHYSICIANS.
For Medical Diagnosis send lock of Hair, well enclosed in oiled paper,
stating sex and age of patient. Prescriptions carefully compounded, under
spirit-control of “Professor Hare" and the Indian Chief “ Blackhawk.”
Fee to accompany the Hair, 10s. 6d., by post office order on Brotherton
—Address, Marsh House, Brotherton. Ferry Bridge, Yorkshire.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
VOiLUJVlE ^IX. jMUJVIBE^ jSEYEjSf.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12th, 1875.
Spmtalxst
s Established in 1869.
HARGKE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Seduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Ookkespondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous “Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of u The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
pefiodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-strbet.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &e., 1S4, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fiteroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street..
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JgVEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—l, Fitzroy-square, W.
DISORGANISATION AMONG AMERICAN
SPIRITUALISTS.
In America the Spiritual movement is at the present
time in a disturbed, unhappy state, partly in conse¬
quence of two notorious mediums, who were condemned
as unreliable in England, having successfully imposed
upon some honourable people, and partly in consequence
of some attacks made upon Spiritualism by a Dr. Beard
of New York, to whose utterances the daily papers
there have given wide publicity. Orators from the
United States, who have visited this country, have told
us of eleven millions of Spiritualists who form one-third
of the total population of their native land, conse-
sequently, in the middle of the present depression, it is
natural to ask what those alleged eleven millions of
believers are doing to ward off the attacks of the
enemy. Surely there is no lack of strength; for one-
third of the population, by all voting together in
opposition to the divided votes of the remaining two-
thirds, could take the entire government of the
nation into their hands, and command nearly every
seat in the Congress at Washington. Madame
Blavatsky, a most energetic Russian lady, now
in the United States, has been fighting Dr. Beard
most vigorously, and has certainly come off best
from the encounter; but in an article in the Spiritual
Scientist she piteously asks where all the mOlions of
the American Spiritualists are, and why they are doing
nothing in the middle of the present crisis. ■ In Boston,
the head-quarters of the Spiritualists of the United
States, there are internal divisions, and people of edu¬
cation and culture have not banded together in such a
way as to be able to give public expression to their
views; consequently in Boston, and, indeed, through¬
out the States, the uneducated portion of our body is
that whose utterances are attracting the greatest share
of public attention, and this is certainly not to the
advantage of the movement. Mr. R. Cooper, who
is now in Boston, says that there is a great falling
off in the attendance at Spiritualistic Sunday meet¬
ings in that town; although a much smaller hall is
now used than formerly, it is not half filled. He
adds: “ The more respectable, well-to-do Spirit-
qalists hold aloof altogether, preferring not to iden¬
tify themselves with the movement in its present
transitional state.” Thus it will be seen that in
consequence of the most intelligent people keeping
aloof, and the most uneducated being split up into
small societies having no influence, Spiritualism in
America !is at present a rope of sand, so far as united
action and power to resist attacks from outside are
concerned. The championship of the interests of the
cause in times of difficulty thus falls upon two or three
heroic individuals, and a lady has been obliged, single-
handed, to do work which it was the duty of the whole
movement to undertake. In England the banding
together of educated and non-quarrelsome Spiritualists
has proved eminently successful; it has given a strength
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 12, 1875.
to the movement which it never possessed before, and
it has given the members the- power of appointing by
vote those representatives in whom they have con¬
fidence, and who can command the respect of the
outside public. Our brethren in America should do
likewise, and form a National Organisation. As Mr.
Paul said at Marylebone, there is nothing good or bad
in organisation itself, its function merely being to give
strength, so that if organisation in Spiritualism is bad,
Spiritualism must be bad also; the evil cannot lie in the
circumstance of individuals deciding in favour of union
instead of disintegration. No doubt the eleven •millions
of American Spiritualists exist only as a brilliant figure
of rhetoric. Nevertheless, the number of American
Spiritualists is much greater than the number of Spirit¬
ualists in England, yet in this country the movement is
probably strongest, in consequence of educated Spirit¬
ualists having resolved to pull together in amity and
good-will. That tlie whole of our body is not as yet
working in unanimity, is not the fault of those of us
who have raised the cry of anti-dissension, and invited
all, high and low, to work unitedly on terms of equality,
under a constitutional system resting upon vote by
ballot.
The editor of the Spiritual Scientist of Boston, who
has been studying the English spiritual periodicals,
appears to have adopted most of the conclusions which
have just been stated, and his is of course the opinion
of a dispassionate and a distant observer. Mr. Peebles,
who knows Spiritualists and their local organisations
throughout the length and breadth of the United
States, has also emphatically declared in favour of
union, consequently has enrolled himself as a member of
the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The following remarks on the practical advantages
of union are from the Spiritual Scientist of January
7th last:—
Though but recently organised, the British National Asso¬
ciation seems to be in a high state of prosperity ; new members
are constantly being added, the funds are increasing, and the
future seems full of promise. And the secret of their success
may be in the energy of the founders, and their determination
to handle the questions which so naturally come before a body
of this description. The time is not occupied in long speeches,
nor is an entire session consumed in ten-minute remarks. The
Association realises that Spiritualism has a work—a large
work before it. Individual action in some cases may be pro¬
ductive of great results ; but in others, organised effort, and
that in the proper channel, will alone answer the requirements.
And because it has a purpose, the Association will grow and
prosper. It has no time for personal discussion, tending to the
advancement of the individual. “ Who best can work,” seems
to be the motto at present prevailing, and it is not surprising
that many subjects of vital worth are under considera¬
tion. Gold medals for prize essays on Spiritualism have
been offered, the education of the children of Spiritualists
is receiving attention, and monthly reunions are held. We
look for important results from the t British National Asso¬
ciation.
Reception- at Mes. Geegoey’s.—Last Tuesday night,
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, W.,gave a reception to Spiritualistic and other friends,
among whom were the Bev. Mr. Haweis and Mrs. Haweis,
General Brewster, the Bev. Mr. Fisher, the Bev. W. Stainton-
Moses, M.A., Captain Freme, Mr. Craufurd of Auchnames,
Signor Polumbo, Mr, Percival, Mr. Wedgwood, Mr. Peele, B.A.,
Miss Hamilton of Sundrum, Miss Bristowe, Mrs. and Miss
Inglis of Bed Hall, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. Murray of Phillip-
haugh, Mr. Henry Holmes, musical composer, Mr. and Mrs.
Hanbury, Mr. Mudie, Mr. Algernon Joy, Miss Hope, and Mr.
W. H. Harrison. Mr. Mudie gave some of his own beautiful
ompositions on the piano, with exquisite delicacy of touch.
THE SLEEPING GIRL OF TURYILLE.
From The Wycombe Telegraph, Feb. 5th.
Tgrville is a small village about ten miles from
Wycombe, and not very far from Hetdey-on-Thames.
It lies in a hollow between two chalk hills, and in
summer we should say the situation would be extremely
pleasant. But it is, after all, a veritable “ Sleepy
Hollow ” in itself; and the wonder is that there are not
more cases of a similar kind to the one we are about to
describe. The old ivy-grown parish church is a relic of
the far-distant past; the sign-board at the principal
“ public ” has grown rusty, and does not now swing in
the wind as it used to do; the blacksmith’s anvil, at the
time of our visit, was silent, and instead of the flame of
the forge and the roar of the bellows, a sleepy-looking
boy, and a dog in the arms of Morpheus, were all that
met our view. Not another soul was visible—in fact
everybody seemed to be, or perhaps was, asleep. And
yet the sun shone gloriously over all, and tinted the
surrounding landscape with ever-varying shades of rural
beauty. Indeed, but for a thrush in one of the old
trees in the parish churchyard, that poured forth a per¬
fect flood of song, we should have fairly concluded that
we had entered dreamland, or had found out the spot
which Rip Van Winkle loved so well. By dint, how¬
ever of questioning the half-dormant youth aforesaid,
we found out the abode of “ the sleeping girl; ” but in
reply to our questions, and those of a medical friend
whom we accompanied on our visit, the youth only
pointed; he seemed too dull and sleepy to speak. And
when asked to hold the horse, he did so mechanically,
and still without a word; so that the first conviction
that we had really reached “ Sleepy Hollow ” was
rather deepened than otherwise.
On reaching the door of the cottage, the occupant, a
Mrs. Erewen, came out, and politely asked our business.
On being informed that we wished to see her daugter,
she—after ascertaining that the one was a medical
gentleman, and the other was something else—led the
way to the “ humble cot,” where, as her mother
solemnly averred, Ellen Sadler, the subject of the
present notice, had lain asleep “ for four years, come
March next.” Sure enough there lay a girl on the
bed, apparently about sixteen years of age, and sound
asleep. The breathing appeared perfectly natural, and
the whole features and form were in a state of com¬
plete repose. She lies on her left side with her hand
on the pillow below her head; and there is no motion
of the body whatever, except what is caused by the
apparent inhalation and exhalation of the breath.
Apparent, we say—for it is a singular thing that you
may put your ear as close as you can to the girl’s
mouth, and yet not the slightest sound of breathing is
perceptible—as is always the case when a healthy
person is asleep. The aspect of the features is quite
pleasant—in fact, very much so ; and not at all like
that of a person labouring under any form of disease.
Calm and perfect repose sit there enthroned, and the
whole surroundings are in keeping. But after you have
sat for a little time and gazed on the “ death in life” so
vividly stamped on the pale face before you, the mind
at once begins to try the case pro and con; and then
comes the, to us, extraordinary part of the whole story.
Many medical men of eminence, from England, Scot¬
land, Ireland, and also from America, have visited the
cottage—have studied the case minutely—-have sent
experienced nurses to watch; and all have come away
baffled, and not convinced one way or the other. Some
THE SPIRITUALIST.
75
Feb. 12, 1875.
have openly asserted that the whole thing is a hoax,
kept up by the family for the purpose of extorting
money. Others are satisfied that a mystery of some
sort hangs over the case, which even the most learned
cannot unravel. There the matter stands, and is likely
to continue.
A few notes of the case, taken carefully from the
statements made by the mother of the girl, may not be
without interest. Ellen Sadler was born in March,
1859, and is the tenth of a family of twelve, the last
twins.- Her father has been dead some years; and the
mother has married again—which accounts for the
difference in the names. When a very young child her
mother states that she was very thoughtful, and not
inclined to join in the more boisterous sports of her
youthful companions. She would sit by the fireside
for hours, apparently thinking. She was a good girl—
attended and loved the Sunday school—and had a very
great reverence for all things sacred—particularly the
Bible. Her father was sometimes given to taking “ a
drop too much,” and when he would come home at
night in this state the little thing gave him lectures,
and in fact spoke like “ a good book” to him. When
the subject of our sketch got a little on in years, like
all the children of the labouring class, she was sent
away to earn something. Her destination was Marlow,
where she had the charge of two little children. After
she had been there for some time she complained of her
head, and her mistress sent her home. The local
medical man examined her, and it was found that an
abscess was forming on the hack of the head, near the
nape of the neck. Under his advice, Ellen was sent
to Reading Hospital, where she was treated for the dis¬
ease, which, however, developed itself in another part
of the head, and, if we remember rightly, in the arm.
After being three weeks in hospital she was sent home,
but in a poor state of health. Then commenced the
development of the disease—if disease it is—from
which she seems to be at present suffering. She became
weary, listless, careless of everything, and, finally, took
to her bed. She was at first afflicted with hysterics,
more or less violent and evanescent $ and these returned
with greater violence when the state of somnolency
began to develope itself. While in bed she frequently
spoke to her mother, and several times asked her if she
did not hear sweet bells ringing! One afternoon in
March, 1871, she was more than usually depressed—
had, in fact, slept much of the day; but towards after¬
noon she woke up and said, “ Oh! mother, dear, don’t
you hear the sweet music?—listen!” Of course the
mother replied that she did not hear anything. There¬
upon Ellen repeated the question, adding, “It is the
music of heaven!” She then threw her arms over the
bed-clothes, and calling out, “ Oh, mother, never leave
me!” she fell asleep, and, as the mother distinctly
asserts, has never since awoke, or given any sign of life
except breathing. And there she now lies, in general
appearance and outward manifestations apparently
bearing out the statement.
During all these long years a constant watch has
been kept on the sleeping girl both day and night. The
mother is by no means averse to any fair test being
applied in order to ascertain whether her daughter is
in a trance or not. She will not allow the girl to be
pulled about in any way; but she has allowed the use
of galvanism (without knowing what was being done),
but no visible effect has resulted from anything which
has yet been tried. The pulse on the occasion of our
visit was 108, very fast for either natural sleep or coma,
or even a healthy person of her age. The pulse from
14 to 21 years is 75 to 85 per minute. The respira¬
tions were 20 per minute, which is about the normal
standard for a girl of the age of Ellen Sadler. The
temperature of the body as ascertained by the ther¬
mometer was SS'GOVor ’3 above that of a healthy per¬
son. The breathing, as we have already said, is
perfectly visible, but inaudible, and the teeth are quite
rigid. The body towards the lower part is very much
emaciated, and the appearance of the feet and legs
more like that of a corpse than a living body. The
hands' have quite the natural colour, but there is no
flush on the cheek. The countenance is pale, but it is
not the paleness of death. She is, in fact, rather a
pleasant-looking girl than otherwise. The manner in
which she is fed is by pouring a little port wine, mixed
with sugar, into the mouth at a broken tooth on the
left side of the head. A little milk is sometimes given
when it is quite fresh, and occasionally a small quan¬
tity of tea. The head is raised by the mother from the
pillow, lifted gently on one side, and the liquid given
three times a day. About half a pint of wine per week
is the quantity used, in addition to the milk and tea.
Ho difference in this diet is ever made now ; and no
experiments are tried; the case has come to be regarded
as chronic; and the meals of the sleeping girl are
looked on as part of the daily honsehold arrangements.
Only once, at the instigation of a medical man, a change
was made. A little brandy and water was poured down
the orifice between the teeth, and the effect was almost
instantly apparent; the face became flushed all over,
and marked with pink spots; and from this and other
symptoms—such as the vomiting up of a quantity of
black, fetid stuff of very offensive smell—the experi¬
ment was not again resorted to. At this time the teeth
had not become rigid, and the mouth could be opened ;
now all the symptoms are supposed to have settled down,
and point to a permanent trance, only to be relieved by
death; such, at least, is the opinion of those who look
on the case as a bond fide trance, or long-continued
sleep.
DALSTOH ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. H. D. Jencken, bas accepted the presidency of
the above old-established and well-managed society of Spirit¬
ualists.
The new prospectus of the Association sets forth that the
purposes of the society are—(1) The collection of well-authen¬
ticated facts affecting Spiritualism, through its own circle or
circles and other available sources, so as to form a basis for
sound judgment. (2) By various means to offer facilities to
investigators, and to induce others to give the matter careful
inquiry, with a view to a better understanding of the phe¬
nomena and teachings of Spiritualism. In addition to the
weekly meetings and seances, members of the Association have
the privilege of utilising the well-stocked library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred sub¬
jects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines
are regularly supplied, for the perusal of members, to the
rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.,
where copies of the prospectus, rules, and circle regulations,
with any further information, may be obtained. Application
at the rooms as above.
The following is the altered clause in rule vii., which gave
rise to much discussion at the recent meeting:—“ The Council
shall be empowered to elect as honorary members persons
reputed for efficient service in their researches into Spirit¬
ualism, such elections to be reported at each ensuing half-
yearly general meeting. Any subscription or donation to be
optional on the part of such elected honorary members, who
shall have no vote at the general meetings of the Association,”
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
The following circle regulations have been drawn up:—1.
That at each seance the circle be constituted of those members
present who sat at the preceding seance; any vacant seat to
be then offered to mediumistic persons present, and any further
arrangements to be subject to directions from the controlling
agents. 2. That at each seance, in the absence, of the presi¬
dent elect, a president of the circle be elected by the members
present to conduct the proceedings. 3. That only one mem¬
ber of the circle be permitted to put questions at a time, and
while so doing, the questioner must not be interrupted by any
remarks. 4. That no discussion be permitted during the
sitting of the circle, but must be limited to the period after
the conclusion of the sitting.
THE SPIRIT AND THE BODY.*
You were puzzled to understand how a spirit could have a
desire to be in the company of a person in the flesh, instead
of remaining in the delightful scenery and society of the
spirit-world. The reason is simply because we love to do
good; and to be eternally enjoying himself would very soon
pall upon the tastes of any man worthy of the blessings
which an all-loving Father has showered so lavishly on the
inhabitants of the summer land. We like to come back to
earth to witness the sorrows and trials of our fellow-men in
their struggle through life. We find we can help them to
become better and happier, and if they could only realise what
goes on behind the scenes, instead of ignoring the existence of
any other beings but themselves, they would be much happier,
because they would see how vain are the pursuits upon which
they lay so much stress.
We want to explain to you the whole rationale of the sub¬
ject. We were saying that we came back to earth to do good.
We may have relations here whom we love and want to
benefit, or we may simply come out of love to mankind, like
the Great Teacher who breught Christianity into the world.
We come to benefit somebody. When we say we, we mean
those who are on the same plane as ourselves.
Of course there are others who are here for no good motive.
They want to amuse themselves at the expense of others. We
are not wishing to create a prejudice against any other
medium, but it is a fact that there are vast numbers of spirits
who are trying to bring discredit on Spiritualism by false com¬
munications and trickery, and it will be well for all investi¬
gators to make sure that the spirits they get communications
from are reliable, before they attach any importance to the
advice they receive. We have known some cases where men
of intellect even have been brought to the verge of madness
through false messages from spirits of this kind. You want
to know how people are to discover truth from falsehood. We
advise them to trust to their own common sense, and not be¬
lieve all that they get from the spirit-world.
If they could see all that goes on behind the scenes, they
would understand how necessary this advice is. Imagine a
number of people sitting round a table, waiting for a spirit
message, and imagine a number of so-called spirits, who are
simply the fathers or mothers, sisters or brothers of these
people, all standing round behind them, looking on, and trying
to send messages—it may be of love—to this assemblage of
what we call deaf, dumb, and blind people, who see one
another, it is true, and talk away amongst themselves, but
who coolly ignore the existence of the beings behind their
chairs, thinking them in heaven or in hell as the case may be.
Here we see a picture of the usual scene that we can witness
any day in a seance room. We have only pictured a circle of
believers or earnest inquirers. What takes place at an as¬
semblage of frivolous-minded people may be more easily
imagined than described. Each person thinks it is the right
thing to affect a tone of levity and derision. They are open
to be convinced perhaps, but the proof must be furnished by
the “ spirits ” who are supposed to be about. Accordingly, if
anything remarkable happens, they are astonished, and should
they really get a bona fide communication, they are very much
impressed, and either believe it is the work of the devil or of an
angel. They accordingly put questions to the said “ spirit,”
and if they get intelligible responses they are all the more
amazed, and begin to think there is “ something in this
Spiritualism after all.” By-and-by they attend other seances,
* The above is a spirit comynunication written through the hand of a
gentleman known to us, who says he was recently developed by Mrs.
Catherine Woodforde as a writing medium, after previously suffering con¬
siderable annoyance from deceitful spirits, whom, however, her guides
succeeded in removing.—Ed.
Feb. 12, 1875.
and finally get convinced, and then they are full-fledged
Spiritualists.
When this stage has been reached, they are more or less
prepared to believe anything that is told to them by spirits,
They first thought it was the work of the devil, but now they
think it is the work of an angel, because they have received
a message from some relation, and of course they are loth to
believe that any relation of theirs could have anything to do
with the devil. They therefore believe all they get is infallible,
and they are deceived by strangers from the spirit world, who
want to impose upon their credulity for their own amusement.
THEOLOGICAL OBJECTIONS TO SPIRITUALISM.
A IiAdt who has been a Spiritualist for some years
and who has made considerable sacrifices in consequence,
has sent us the following letter, entitled “ Seven
Reasons for Renouncing Modern Spiritualism ”•—
1st. It is the most subtle form of Antichrist in all the
world. To be told that some Spiritualists believe in the Lord
Jesus Christ as their Saviour does not satisfy, when at the
same time they are identified with a class of persons who, for
the most part, deny Him to be the true object of worship, and
His rule as “ King of kings and Lord of lords.”
2nd. Spiritualists, by profession and practice, are more
occupied with the return of spirits to our earth than they are
with the return of Jesus, the Redeemer of mankind, into their
hearts.
3rd. The communications of spirits, whether true or false
as to fact, are not direct messages from the Lord, therefore
valueless to any one seeking only, and intelligently, to know
and do His will. Well is it when “ Take heed how ye hear ”
(and to whom ye listen) is heard in the “ still small voice.”
4th. The miserable consequences of abandoning faith in
Christ for the false teachings and prophesyings of mediums
are now proved by a restored believer in Him. There is an
infinite difference between orderly and disorderly medium-
ship. When the Christian consecrates all his wonderful gifts
and faculties to the Lord's service, he is a medium for Him,
and guarded against evil. Lying spirits, who obviously infest
the circle room, making havoc among the souls of men,
women, and children, have no power to deceive those who
keep out of it “ for conscience sake.”
5th. By sitting for spirit influence, in public or private, it
can never be proved what class of spirits or demons is at
work; and though thousands, it maybe millions, have been
convinced of immortality on such occasions, the Christian,
who knows his life is “ hid with Christ in God,” can better
spend time.
6th. A full retractation of views held tenaciously for six
years is necessary, because the one who writes was so earnest
an investigator, having been given rare opportunities of
studying the effects resulting from manifestations of all
kinds. “ What I say unto you, I say unto all, watch," is a
warning given by Himjwho is ‘ ‘ the same yesterday, and to-day,
and for ever.”
7th. The creed and “manner of life” of so-called Spirit¬
ualists, as a rale, have no correspondence with a life of self-
sacrifice, the only truly happy one. It may be for good that
one whose interior sight is in a degree opened, should recall
the fact that the Apostle Paul “ preached the faith he once
destroyed,” and that Peter’s denial of his Lord was followed
by similar results. In searching the Scriptures, then, the
soul is met in every state, and “ Be thou faithful unto death,
and I will give thee a crown of life,” is in harmony with the
aspirations of an Ex-Spibitualist.
The first four reasons given need scarcely any com¬
ment ; they are such as any person subject to the
authority of an hereditary religion must of necessity
make. For instance, a Buddhist might argue from
the same premises, that Spiritualism is a most subtle
form of Anti-Buddha. The statement that the com¬
munications of spirits are not direct messages from the
Lord, assumes that the writer is on somewhat intimate
terms with the Almighty, to know what revelations
come from Him and what do not. To the scientific
mind everything in nature conveys direct messages
from the Source of all Truth, messages which cannot lie,
Feb. 12, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
and which never contradict each other as do the
teachings of men and the dogmas of sacred books of all
nations. The more elementary the mind, the more
does it need something tangible to rest upon in framing
conceptions of the Deity. Hence, the savage carves
his god out of wood and makes him like unto himself—
cruel to those he hates, a god who can be propitiated
by sacrifices, or by contributions of worldly wealth.
The savage is completely unable to understand a god
definable only by his moral attributes rather than by
a physical image. The Jews were higher in the scale
of civilisation, hence they had superior notions of God,
for the higher a nation stands in the scale of civilisation,
the nobler is the god which its imagination pictures,
the deity of any race being its highest conception
of what is right and true. The Jews’ notion of
a great ruler was that he should be a thorough tyrant;
if they dethroned one king because he proved too blood¬
thirsty, they immediately put another tyrant in his
place who might be better or worse than his predecessor,
but they had not the brains to conceive the idea of
freer forms of government. In short, the government
was good enough for the people, and a better form
could not have existed, the soil not being there in
which it could strike root.
The god of the Jews consequently was bloodthirsty,
commanding the slaying of innocent women and
children, and sometimes putting a lying spirit in
the mouths of his prophets, with the intention of
deceiving his people. Later still in the world’s history,
the religious aspirations of advanced races have
clustered round deified men, upon whose careers the
lapse of time, and the poetry of tradition, and the
modifications introduced into the legends by the priest¬
hood to suit the times, have thrown a sacred halo; and
evolved a tangible image upon which those minds
which need a more or less material object of worship,
may rest.
At last we have reached a scientific age, in which
the progress of accurate knowledge has shown that
many of the facts recorded in sacred books are un¬
reliable, such, for instance, as the earth being a flat
plane with a small sun moving over it for the purpose
of giving it warmth. Consequently, as many of the
alleged facts in the said books are proved to be un¬
reliable, there is a spirit of inquiry abroad as to the
reliability of the other portions, and a disposition among
educated and spiritually-minded people to accept that
which is good in sacred books, and to reject the re¬
mainder, without wantonly hurting the feelings of
others to whom the whole narrative appears to be
sacred, and is accepted as the mainspring of happiness.
The lady who now renounces modern Spiritualism is
a great admirer of Swedenborg, also of T. L. Harris, the
well-known American medium; both of these would
be condemned by the great majority of Christians as •
Antichrist or something nearly allied thereto. Anti¬
christ is merely a vague term of reproach thrown at
anybody they do not like, from the late Emperor
Napoleon, to Bishop Colenso, and Joseph Smith, the
father of the Latter-day Saints.
To the fifth reason, which is of a practical and not
of a theological class, it is easier to speak,, for in theo¬
logical controversy there is no fixed and indisputable
court of fact to which all the controversialists may
alike appeal. The statement is that inquirers can
never prove what class of spirits or demons is at work
through mediums. Dr, Newton, the medium, has
spent most of his lifetime in visiting the sick and
afflicted. He has healed some thousands of their dis¬
eases, although in ■ many other cases he has failed, and
the burden of his teaching has been nothing else
than “ Little children, love one another.” Mr. Ash¬
man has cured hundreds of people of their dis¬
eases in 1 this country, and has spent his life in doing
good; therefore it is safe to assume that the spirits
aiding them and producing such results are good.
On the other hand there are some spirits who say
what is not true, and are capable of a vast
amount of improvement. By the law of their being,
namely, from their earthly material nature, they have
much direct power over common matter; yet, in working
their wicked will they often do some good uninten¬
tionally, by convincing men of the reality of a future
life by means of their power; further, they are brought
into contact with mortals more advanced than them¬
selves, who ought to preach to these spirits in prison
in the bondage of their own sins, and to try to raise
them higher. Why should all spirits be expected to
be good and to raise us, whilst we sit down lazily, and
do not in our turn do some good to those spirits who
need help ?
As to objection six, an anonymous retractation is not
a full retractation. This paragraph does not contain a
reason.
The seventh objection, in addition to various theological
demurrers, says that the lives of so-called Spiritualists
have no correspondence with the life of self-sacrifice.
This statement is best met by a flat denial, for there
are Spiritualists, to our certain knowledge, who are
living lives of considerable self-sacrifice, as well as
others who are neither particularly good nor bad. In
Spiritualism there are no organised societies as yet for
the visitation of the sick, the clothing of the poor, or
other systematic acts of charity; but at present Spirit,-
ualism has to fight for bare existence, whereby energy
is absorbed which other religious bodies not so at
variance with public opinion can turn in other direc¬
tions. It may be granted that there are some Spirit¬
ualists who do not lead such good lives as certain
orthodox Christians, when judged by the standard of
works and fruits. On the other hand, there are plenty
of orthodox people who lead worse lives than certain
selected Spiritualists; so that sweeping remarks on
such points as these are unjust. The truth is, as Mr.
Atkinson said in effect some time ago in these pages,
“ Theological opinions have very little influence in
determining exceptional spirituality of mind and life,
for human nature is much the same all the world over,
and good and bad alike are to be found among all
denominations.” The facts of Spiritualism cannot be
“renounced” by our correspondent or by anybody else;
the very expression is a contradiction in terms. Rain
and wind, and hail and storm are facts of nature, con¬
sequently it would be an absurdity for anybody to say
that he renounces them ; they exist just the same, and
he. cannot escape their influence. The facts of Spirit¬
ualism govern the psychical effects seen in all religions,
and all the superstitions on the face of the earth. By a
study of the result's of the action of one mind upon
another, of a strong intellect upon a weak one, of the
influence of parents upon the thoughts of their chil¬
dren, the laws whereby a large portion of the human
race is condemned to an hereditary religion, whether it
be true or false, can be evolved.
Our correspondent may say that she does not renounce
78
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the facts, since it is useless to renounce things which
actually exist, but that she renounces the teachings of
modern Spiritualism. To this it may be replied that
no two persons are exactly agreed as to what the
teachings of Spiritualism are; it has no creed, no
ritual, no priestly government ; our correspondent, in
condemning anti-theological forms of Spiritualism, will
find not a few Spiritualists holding her own opinions,
and considered by their brethren to he entitled—on the
principle of freedom—to take up the position they hold
at present inside this great movement; for inside the
movement they are, since those who follow Lake Harris
and admit the phenomena of modern Spiritualism to he
true, and to have convinced millions of persons of immor¬
tality, will certainly he classed as Spiritualists by the
theological world, and will he warned to stand outside
the sacred precincts of orthodoxy.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OE THE COUNCIL.
Last Monday night a Council Meeting of the British
National Association of Spiritualists was held at Lawson’s
Booms, Gower-street, under the presidency of Mr. Alexander
Calder. The other members of the Council present were Mr.
Martin B. Smith, Mr. Keningale Cook, B.A., Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Mr. E. D. Bogers, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. Joseph
Freeman, Mr. Edward T. Bennett, Mr. George King, Dr.
Sexton, Mr. Robert Harper, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. A. Joy, and
Mr. Began.
A SPIBITUAL SOCIETY IN BBIXTON.
A letter from Mr. Blyton was read, suggesting that the
National Association should co-operate with Mr. Bendle, in
his attempt to form a local society of Spiritualists at Brixton.
It was resolved to wait until a direct communication had been
received from Mr. Rendle on the subject.
LONGFELLOW’S BELATIONSHIP TO SPIRITUALISM.
The following letter from Mr. Longfellow, the poet, was
read:—
Cambridge [Mass.], Jan. 15th, 1875.
Deae Miss Kislingbury,—Not being a Spiritualist in the usual and popu¬
lar sense of the word—that is to say, never having seen any manifestations
that convinced me of the presence of spirits—I should deem it almost an
act of dishonesty on my part to accept the compliment you offer.
I must therefore, with many thanks for this mark of your consideration,
beg leave to decline it. With great regard, yours truly,
Heney W. Longfellow.*
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS ON IMPERSONALITY.
A letter from Mr. A. J. Davis of New York was read, de¬
clining to join the Association, on the ground that he was acting
under the impression that “ impersonality was his present
* Mr. J. M. Peebles, late United States Consul at Trebizonde, in a book
entitled Around the World, just published by Messrs. Colby and Rich, of 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S., says that Mr. Longfellow attended a
seance at Baron Kirkup’s residence in Florence, and there “avowed himself
a believer in the present ministry of angels.” On the direct authority, of
the late Mr. Guppy, we once published Mr. Guppy’s statement that at a
seance in Italy, While Mr. Longfellow held both hands of the medium,
orange blossoms were showered on him by spirit power, and he was
satisfied with the manifestation. Statements like these, connecting a well-
known man with an unpopular subject, ought not to be made without
foundation^ so it is satisfactory to see the above emphatic denia1, and it is
to be hoped that Mr. Longfellow may be induced, now that his attention is
drawn to Spiritualism, to inquire into a subject with which bis nature is
much in sympathy, which will scientifically explain much connected with
his own unconscious insp iration, and which throws so much light upon
the nature of man, and the true sources of real human happiness. There
is, nevertheless, considerable discrepancy between the above letter and the
statement of Mr. Peebles:—
Is it all a jest of Peebles’ ?
Wicked Peebles, gay deceiver,
Naughty Peebles the tail-talker.
Or has Longfellow, the poet,
• Talked with spirits at fair Florence ?
Talked with grave-eyed earnest spirits,
Phantoms from the land of shadows,
From the kingdom of Ponemab,
From the land of the Hereafter?
Has his memory slipped its cable,
Broken from his normal knowledge ?
As the tail of the big tadpole—
Wigilwagil, chief of tadpoles—
Breaks off from the lozenge body,
When the reptile’s legs are sprouting
In the sparkling Laughing Water, .
Flashing on the snowy lilies
Near the falls of Minnehaha.—Ed.
Feb. 12, 1875.
duty;” he was consequently working hard, but abstaining
from public life, and keeping his name from all meetings and
organisations.
NEW MEMBERS.
Miss Kislingbury read a letter from Mr. Charles Blackburn,
of Manchester, addressed to Mr. W. H. Harrison, in which Mr.
Blackburn said that hitherto he had not joined the National
Association because he never liked to be the first in any new
thing, but he preferred to be a good second, after watching it. He
had not kept aloof in consequence of any doubt as to Spirit¬
ualism being a great scientific fact, for he knew it to be one,
and he should be glad to be proposed as a member of the
N ational Association at the next meeting.
The other new members proposed were Mr. E. G. Sadler,
Mr. E. P. Ashton, and Mrs. George Blyton.
The four proposed new members were then elected unani¬
mously.
Miss Edmiston and Mr. E. A, Tietkins resigned mem¬
bership.
It was unanimously resolved that Mr. Blackburn should
be invited to become a vice-president of the Association.
FINANCE COMMITTEE’S REPORT.
The report of the Finance Committee set forth that there
was a balance in hand of £82 10s. lid., and that £10 salary
was due to the assistant secretary. The outstanding liabilities
of the Association were estimated at £6.
OFFICES FOR THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION— LIMITED LIABILITY
OF THE MEMBERS.'
Mr. E. T. Bennett, of Reigate, the secretary to the Offices
Committee, said that several members of the committee had
spent time in examining premises in different parts of the
West-end® suitable for offices, and had unanimously agreed to
recommend that some premises in Bloomsbury, not far from
the British Museum, should be taken. All the upper part of
the house could be had. On the first floor there was a large
front, and two back, rooms; on the next story were two front
rooms and one back one; on the third story there were four
rooms; a large basement kitchen was also included. It
was a capitally-built house, over a shop, but the upper rooms
were connected with a private door in a side street. The rent
was £140 a-year, including taxes, for the ten rooms and a
kitchen; the place could be had for a year.
Mr. Jencken asked whether the Association would have to
put in gas, fixtures, and blinds.
Mr. Bennett said the Association would have to do so. Gas
was however laid on as far as the ceilings of several of the
rooms, if not all, but the other fittings would have to be pro¬
vided. The Committee was unanimously of opinion that these
premises ought to be taken, because, supposing two rooms only
were taken elsewhere at half the rent, it would still be neces¬
sary to have a secretary in constant attendance at full salary,
whereas, were a large number of rooms at the disposal of the
Association, some of them might be taken by the secretary in
mitigation of part of his salary. Besides, there would be no
difficulty in letting off a part of the premises if necessary,
thereby bringing down the expenses to be paid by the Asso¬
ciation to £100 a year or less. In short, a large number of
rooms could be used in various ways to contribute to the in¬
come of the Association. If they appointed a permanent
secretary at £150 a year, he might accept £120 if the
Assqciation gave him rooms rent free.
Mr. Jencken said that he had made a calculation which
induced him to conclude that after paying out all income, there
would be a balance of dead loss of £350 a year to be met by
the Association. It would be necessary to have a housekeeper
to look after the premises. Would it not be well to incorporate
the Association, so as to limit the liability of members, if such
expenses were to be gone into ?
The Chairman said that if the Association went into ex¬
pensive offices it would be bankruptcy, therefore the Council
had determined at its last meeting to instruct its Committee
to find rooms for £60 a year, because it thought that to be
the extent to which it ought to go.
Mr. Bennett said that the Association had a guarantee fund
of nearly £200 a year to cover the expenses of offices.
Mr. M. B. Smith remarked that it had been said that the
expenses of offices ought to be kept separate from the ordinary
expenses of the Association, because the Association had not
funds enough to take offices, and its country members would
not like all its outlay to be in London.
Mr. Bennett said that the Offices Committee had put the
rent at £140 a year—including taxes, which was a great point
—the secretary’s salary at £120 a year, and sundry expenses
Feb. 12, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
at £40 a year, making a total of £300 per annum. To cover
this they had a guarantee fund of nearly £200 a year, and
the Association ought to contribute at least £50 a year, be¬
cause it would save many heavy Expenses which it now had to
incur. When the premises were taken, a reading-room and
library could be established, and rooms could be let for
seances ; he was sure that an income of £1 per week for the
various uses to which the rooms could be put would be very
much under the mark, and even that would make up the £800
a-year to balance the expenses. At present £52 a-year had to
be paid to the assistant-secretary, and £10 a-year for a room for
occasional Council meetings ; under the new management this
expenditure of £62 a-year would be saved. He thought, as
had been stated all along, that during the first year a great
deal of the guarantee fund would be required; but, in time,
there would be so many uses to which the rooms could be put,
and so many new members were joining the Association, forty
or fifty having entered it during the past two months, that
there was tolerable certainty of a steadily increasing income.
The committee had seen two good rooms in Soho-square, with
a kitchen and two little bed-rooms, which could be had for £65
a-year, but he thought that the general expenses of the Asso¬
ciation would be nearly as great there as in the more costly
premises, and they would have no rooms to let for seances ;
consequently, in recommending the premises at Bloomsbury,
the Committee thought that they were sanctioning about the
same expenditure as would be incurred in taking smaller pre¬
mises at £60 a-year.
Mr. M. R. Smith wanted to know why people could not hold
seances at home ?
Miss Kislingbury said that she knew of several cases of
people wanting rooms away from home to hold seances; rooms
for that purpose were sometimes advertised for.
Mr. Jencken said that he had given attention to Mr. Ben¬
nett’s remarks, and now agreed with what he had said; but he
thought that before such large expenses were incurred, that
the Association should be incorporated, so as to make the
liability of its members no more than the amount of their sub¬
scriptions.
The Chairman said that he quite agreed with Mr. Jencken.
It would be good to place the Association upon such a basis,
because then the minds of members would be at rest upon the
matter of liability; indeed, careful people stood aloof while
this point was undecided. He himself only joined the Associa¬
tion while the liability was unlimited because he was able to
attend its meetings, and to see what was being done. There
were many, however, who could not so attend.
Mr. Jencken said that he intended to propose that the
Association should be registered under the Act of 1867; it
would only cost between £5 and £10 to do so.
Mr. Harper thought it best to enrol under the Friendly
Societies Act, because that would be cheaper, and would answer
the purpose just as well.
Mr. Bennett said that Mrs. Everitt had suggested that the
expenses of furnishing might be covered by a bazaar, and that
already several offers of assistance had been made to her to
get one up. (Hear, hear.) She had also'informed the Com¬
mittee of premises which ought to be looked at before coming
to a definite conclusion about taking any. They were in
Bloomsbury-place, and comprised a house, containing fifteen
rooms, for £110 a year, with a premium of £250 to be paid for
a thirteen years’ lease ; without the lease the house would be
worth £200 a year. It would do for soirees and public meet¬
ings, as it contained a room very much like that at Harley-
street.
The chairman said that this matter of offices would still he
a perplexity to the Committee, unless the Council gave them
definite and clear instructions; it was for the Council to deter¬
mine that night whether the Committee was right in selecting
such large and good premises; if not, the Council should
give some more definite instructions upon which the Com¬
mittee could act.
Mr. Harper said they had carried out their instructions, for
they had offered premises in Soho-square at £65, but recom¬
mended better premises at £140 as more profitable in the
end; so the two things were before the Council for its
decision.
Mr. Bennett said that practically the two suggestions
amounted to the same thing, because the letting off of a part
of the larger premises, and the uses to which a large number
of rooms could be put, would practically bring the expenditure
down to the same amount.
A communication from Mr. Harrison set forth that during
the first year of the existence of the Association the public '
had asked what work it had done ? Its chief work had been to
form itself. If a number of persons were instructed to build a
locomotive, it would not be fair to put the question what work
the engine had done while it was being built. The members
of the Association now saw this to be the case, and recognised
that good work had been done to form a solid organisation, and
to get up a May meeting and a large Conference during the first
year. He should like to see the question discussed by the
Council, whether establishing a goodhome for their Association,
now that it was founded, was not a legitimate object on which
to expend the ordinary funds of the Association during the
second year of its existence; it would be better perhaps to do
the thing thoroughly, rather than to half do it, in order to retain
funds to spend over a few public meetings; in trying to do
both neither might be done efficiently. If this course were
decided upon, £50 at least would be available for the pur¬
chase of well-selected books, which would prove a source of
attraction likely to draw people to the reading-room. He was
aware that the objection to this course was, the country mem¬
bers might object that all the funds of that Association were
being spent in London, but to balance this country members
might be allowed the privilege of admission to the new
library and reading-room without charge.
Miss Kislingbury said that not only were there no taxes to
pay on the proposed premises near the British Museum, but the
house was newly papered, and in good condition from top to
bottom.
Mr. Began suggested that the Association should get furni¬
ture for the new offices on the hire system.
Mr. M. B. Smith said that it was best to buy good second¬
hand furniture or to have a bazaar.
Mr. Joy said that he thought Mr. Harrison’s ideas had been
discussed before ; he objected to them, and thought that the
ordinary funds of the Association ought not to be almost ex¬
clusively expended for the benefit of Spiritualists in London;
it was for the very object of avoiding that, that the guarantee
fund was raised, and he thought that to be a perfectly sound
principle to go upon. The Association ought to be perfectly
fair to its country members..
Mr. M. R. Smith asked how much of the funds of the Asso¬
ciation was contributed by country members.
Mr. Joy said that he was not quite sure, but he thought
more than half the total income.
Miss Kislingbury asked whether the country members would
not like to see their Association in good premises ? She
thought they would look upon such premises as their own,
and take a pride in seeing the Association well established.
Mr. Jencken moved that a Committee should be appointed
“ to frame a memorandum and articles of association in con¬
formity with the rules and constitution of this Association, to
be registered under the 1867 Act without the name ‘ limited,’
and to report to this Council the documents when framed.”
This was seconded by Mr. M. B. Smith.
Mr. Freeman pointed out that this question could not be
considered at that meeting, unless three-fourths of the Council
agreed that it should be considered, since it was a motion of
which previous notice should have been given.
The Council unanimously resolved that it would consider
the question there and then.
Mr. Harper suggested that the Committee should be in¬
structed to inquire whether the cheaper process of registration
under the “ Friendly Societies Act ” would not answer the
purpose better ?
Mr. Jencken said that there were difficulties and limitations
connected with that course, and that the 1867 Act was the
best, as it was not an Association framed for the purpose of
dividing profits among the members, it was not necessary to
add the word “ limited ” to its title.
The resolution was then passed unanimously, the Com¬
mittee appointed to register the Association being Messrs.
Rogers, Jencken, Glynes, Harper, Freeman, and Joy.
Mr. Began then moved that the premises recommended be
taken for one year only, with the option of continuing the
tenancy longer if desired.
Mr. Joy seconded this.
Mr. King said, if the premises were necessary to be taken at
once, would it not be necessary to find a resident secretary
immediately ? The chairman remarked that some time must
elapse in registering the Association and in taking the
premises, which probably would not be entered until quarter-
day, so tlxat there was plenty of time to consider the matter of
a resident secretary.
Miss Kislingbury said that the rooms were not ready to be
occupied at once, they had nothing in them.
80
THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 12, 1875.
Mr. Jencken said that the premises should not be taken in
such a way as to make it a yearly tenancy, but it should be
clear that the Association should he able either to give them
up or to continue them at the close of the year.
The resolution to take them for one year was then passed
unanimously.
Mr. Bennett asked the Council to appoint trustees. He
thought that perhaps the gentlemen who acted as trustees to
the guarantee fund, and had most of it in hand, would also
act as trustees in taking the building.
Mr. Harper said that it seemed as if the two functions natu¬
rally ran together.
The trustees of the guarantee fund—Mr. Calder and Mr.
Smith—said that they had no objection to act as trustees in
taking the premises for one year.
They were appointed trustees accordingly.
Mr. Keningale Cook said that the name of the Association
should be put in the windows, so that readers might see it on
their way to the British Museum.
Mr. M. Smith—Yes, and let us have a large brass plate on
the door.
MONTHLY SOIREES.
On the recommendation of Miss Kislingbury, it was resolved
to hold the next soiree on the 3rd of March. She said that
there was a moderate profit over the last one ; she did not know
exactly how much, because some of the tickets extended over
the series of meetings.
SPIRITUAL PERIODICALS.
In addition to the foreign periodicals already taken in by
the Association, it was resolved to order the Harbinger of
Light, Australia; Brittan's Journal, U.S.; and Common Sense,
San Francisco.
LECTURES AND SEANCES IN THE PROVINCES.
Miss Kislingbury gave notice that at the next meeting she
should move that the Council should promote the spread of
Spiritualism by aiding provincial societies to organise lectures
and seances, and that the secretaries be instructed to inquire
where such are the most needed, and to make a definite pro¬
posal to some well-known medium or lecturer to organise a
tour for the above object.
FURNISHING THE NEW OFFICES.
The Chairman said that the Council ought to decide how
many rooms in thejuew offices should be furnished, and that
instructions in accordance therewith should be given to the
Offices Committee. They ought to make out a list of the
furniture required, and report thereupon to the trustees ; they
should further be limited to the expenditure of a certain
amount, say £50.
Mr. G-. King thought that the Committee ought not to have
power to do anything until they had reported.
The Chairman thought that too much reporting before any¬
thing was done would delay getting through the work.
It was resolved that the Offices Committee should be autho¬
rised to expend £50 in furnishing. The Offices Committee
consists of Messrs. Bennett, Rogers, Harper, and Freeman.
Mr. M. Smith said that it had been suggested that a notice
should be put up to let a part of the premises; but he did
not think it would be wise to do that just yet. The Associa¬
tion might want the rooms for other purposes. Many Spirit¬
ualists coming to London on a visit would be glad to have
rooms there for a few nights if there were any to let.
Mrs. Everitt said that was exactly what provincial Spirit¬
ualists wanted. A private hotel in connection with Spirit¬
ualism would probably answer.
Several members spoke of the difficulty mediums had in
finding rooms in which they would be permitted to hold
seances; they are often searching for them for days, the public
want of knowledge of Spiritualism being so great. It is a
common thing for mediums to pay three or four guineas a
week for a pair of small furnished rooms at the West End, in
which they can hold seances.
Mr. Joy said that if the Association would furnish some of
them nicely, he would take them.
SUNDAY SERVICES.
Mr. E. T. Bennett proposed that £2 2s. be paid towards the
expenses of Mrs. Tappan’s lectures, and £2 2s. towards the
expenses of the Doughty Hall seances.
The Chairman remarked that Mrs. Tappan’s lectures were
managed by a strong Committee with supporters.
Mr. Joy said the one objection to the Cavendish Rooms was,
that there were no free seats, and that everybody had to pay;
so he thought that the Doughty Hall services were more en¬
titled to support. He would second that part of Mr. Bennett’s
proposition.
It was then unanimously resolved to give £2 2s. towards the
Doughty Hall services.
The proceedings then closed.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SOIREE.
On Wednesday, last week, the first of a series of monthly
soirees under the auspices of the British National Association
of Spiritualists, was held at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-
street, Regent-street, London, and there was a large attend¬
ance of ladies and gentlemen, comprising most of the oldest
and best known Spiritualists in the metropolis, as well as more
recent supporters of the movement. Messrs. Adshead Brothers,
of Derbyshire, and other provincial Spiritualists were present.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, the president of the meeting, said:—
We have met here to-night for pleasure, and not for business,
therefore my remarks shall be brief. Nevertheless, as this is
the first of what may be called an experimental series of
social gatherings, I cannot permit it to pass without touching
upon the objects which we expect may be attained by these
meetings, and the advantages that we hope may accrue from
them. The social characteristics of these gatherings, though
not perhaps in reality their most important aspect, are, I am
fully aware, the most attractive. Probably the great majority
of those present this evening, have been led here as much, if
not more, by the anticipated pleasure of an hour’s chat with
their friends, than by any other reason. I am the last to
make light of this, for I am convinced that one of the greatest
and at the same time most harmless pleasures of life, is derived
from genial social intercourse, and the advantage of conver¬
sation with those whom you love, or at any rate regard and
esteem. I have no sympathy with, modern hermits, either
male or female. I look upon them as the most selfish of man¬
kind. They are wrapped up in themselves, contented with
their own thoughts, and too often more than contented with
their superiority over their fellows. I am also sure, that
although it may be good for man to be at times alone, that he
is by nature gregarious, not a solitary animal, and that in
seeking cheerful society fhe is but fulfilling one of the most
imperious laws of his being. I will go so far as to say that it
is my belief that every one who spends an hour or two in sen¬
sible, unselfish intercourse and conversation with his fellows,
.is distinctly the wiser, the better, and the happier for it. I do
not expect you all to assent to this somewhat sweeping propo¬
sition, for the spiritual and educational progress of the man is
analogous to the bodily growth of a child; they are both sure
and continuous under proper conditions, but they are both so
gradual as to be imperceptible to the keenest human discern¬
ment. However this may be, there are few who will
leave this hall to-night without feeling that in some way
or other they have advanced the cause they love, that it is
a more strongly-established movement, a truer reality of their
lives than it was but two or three short hours before. And
so in sober truth it will be. Doubts will have been solved,
hesitation overcome, the waverer converted through God’s
grace into the staunch believer, and the careless forced to
realise that in this movement lies the germ of a mighty
power for good. You may well ask how I expect that
all or a tithe of these benefits are to be brought about
and I answer, by the marvellous and mystic powers of
association, by the influence of the strange magnetic force
which manifests itself in all assemblages of people united in
the furtherance of one common object. If that object be a
spiritual one, I believe this sympathetic influence is much in¬
tensified. The united aspirations of our hearts rise as a
subtle and powerful incense to heaven, attracting to us the
assistance of higher intelligences and enabling them to in¬
fluence, to guide, and to protect. We are assembled, as it
were, at a great seance, where the manifestations, if not directly
physical, are none the less astonishing, for I ask you whether
directing the sympathies of the inner heart of man is less
wonderful than the movement of inanimate objects, or the
lifting up of the spirit a less stupendous task than the mere
levitation of the body ? Another great object of these meet¬
ings, to my mind, is, that coming together in numbers as we
have to-night, tends to remove from the mind that terrible
feeling of isolation which some of us have to contend against.
The beliefs which are so dear to us, are to the many an object
of pity or contempt, and there are doubtless some here who
find in such gatherings as these an intense and much needed
solace and support. Finally, I see in these meetings a sort of
Feb. 12, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
81
first-fruits of the many advantages to be derived from asso¬
ciation. I think they will be the means of bringing into our
ranks many who would otherwise have held coldly aloof. They
will originate new and cement old friendships, and must
tend to foster mutual interdependence and confidence; and
although I should be sorry that they should afford undue
facilities to those among us who are fond of making speeches,
they at any rate provide us with an opportunity of discussing,
when necessary, important questions ; or, at any rate, gather¬
ing from conversation with the many leading Spiritualists
whom we meet here, the opinions and wishes held by the ma¬
jority of the members of this Association. Before I conclude,
I wish to introduce to you the name of Mr. Seward, a gentle¬
man who has come to England to bring out a new musical in¬
vention. He has kindly attended here to-night, and purposes,
I believe, to favour us with an explanation of his invention.
He has, I am informed, met with the encouragement and ap¬
proval of some of our most eminent composers, and I doubt
not you will be interested and pleased by what he will have to
tell you on the subject. We have also a debt of gratitude to
discharge towards those ladies and gentlemen who have placed
their talents, musical and rhetorical, at our disposal this
evening. It is difficult to say too much upon this subject,
but if thanks will in any way repay them for their trouble, I
think I may promise them a most cordial and liberal re¬
muneration. I will not further detain you, and will conclude
my remarks with an earnest prayer that God may bless,
prosper, and direct our Association and these our social
gatherings. (Applause.)
Mr. Martin Smith then read the following letter, the con¬
tents of which had the warm sympathy of the listeners :—
11, Bellevue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Dear Mr. Martin Smith,—-I see you are chairmau at the soiree of
the British National Association of Spiritualists. I had hoped to be
present, but shall not be able, else I could interest many friends regarding
our progress here at Portsmouth.
We have just ended a five weeks’ correspondence in the Hampshire
Telegraph about Spiritualism. No less than seven letters appeared the
other week, four for us and three against us, and we managed to draw out
the Rev. N. G. Godfrey, notorious many years ago for his vehement oppo¬
sition to Spiritualism as Satanic. But I send the whole of the corre¬
spondence from the beginning. Perhaps some at the soiree would like to
see the letters for and against.
If Mr. Everitt or D. H. Wilson, Esq., are present, please let one of them
have charge of them; then, after perusal, one or other can return them
to me.
I am engaged in getting a list of my clerical brethren who have investi¬
gated matters, and am endeavouring to form a conference of Spiritualist
clergy for mutual help, encouragement and advice; and shall try to estab¬
lish a school in the Church with Spiritualism for its basis.
I shall be glad for all Spiritualists to know my address here, so that in
passing to the Isle of Wight, or staying in the neighbourhood, they may as
they may feel disposed give me a call.
Believe me, very faithfully yours, Thomas Collet,
Feb. 2,1875. Curate of Portsmouth.
Most of the evening was spent in social conversation, but a
portion of the time was devoted to music and singing.
“Joyous Life,” by Kandegger, was sung with great taste by
Miss Malvina Claxton. This was followed by a duet from the
Misses Hickson, “ Greeting,” by Mendelssohn. Mr. Lewis
Seward then gave an improvisation on the pianoforte, after
which two songs from Miss Sexton were received with great
applause, namely, “ Jessie’s Dream” and “ The Wishing-Oap.”
These completed the first half of the programme.
The absence of Mrs. Nosworthy, who was unfortunately too
ill to leave her room, was greatly regretted by all her friends,
and made a decided blank in the programme. All will be glad
to hear, however, that Mrs. Nosworthy has, with great kind¬
ness, offered her asssistance, should her health permit, for the
next conversazione.
The second part of the programme opened with a duet for
flute and piano, “ Airs from Traviata,” performed with fault¬
less skill by Miss H. Withall and Mr. W. Edmiston. The old
English song, “We met, ’twas in a crowd,” was given with
artistic refinement by Miss May Hickson, and “ The Swallows”
(Ktioken) was sung with perfect finish by Miss M. Claxton and
Miss Clark. Mrs. Tappan, who, though suffering from indis¬
position, kindly allowed herself to be controlled, gave a
beautiful inspirational poem, and Mr. Florentine, an accom¬
plished vocalist from New York, gave pleasure to all by his
beautifully mellow voice and pure, artistic style in two songs,
“ When the Flowing Tide comes in,” by Millard, and “ The
Scout,” by Campana. .
A better programme has seldom been given at any spiritual
soiree, and all expressed their hope that the conversaziones
would be continued.
Among the articles exhibited at the conversazione were six
spirit-drawings, by Miss Williamson. It is not known what
they are intended to represent, but in appearance most of
them resemble fine seaweed, and are most delicately drawn.
Miss Houghton lent “ La Maison de Mozart?’ which is a pho¬
tograph from a spirit-engraving, executed through the me-
diumship of Victorien Sardou (the celebrated dramatist),
professedly by the spirits of Mozart and Bernard Palissy. M.
Sardou was desired by spirits to prepare a metal plate in the
proper manner, and his hand produced the sketch under
invisible guidance. It is supposed to have been done about
the year 1861, Miss Houghton having seen a copy of it in
1862. Shortly after that no more engravings were to be
obtained, and the photograph exhibited was taken from a
print in the possession of Mr. Shorter, late editor of The
Spiritual Magazine.
Mr. Shorter exhibited a book of valuable spirit-photographs
and engravings. A frame of portraits of some of the foreign
members of the British National Association was also on view.
Much interest was shown in the musical models exhibited by
Mr. L. A. Seward, and it is hoped that steps will be taken to
form a choir of Spiritualists under the direction of this able
musician. Those who desire to take part should communi¬
cate at once with Miss Kislingbury, 98, Clarendon-road, Not-
ting-hill, W.
The greater part of the work of getting up the soiree which
resulted in so pleasant a meeting was done by Mrs. and Miss
Kislingbury, and Mrs. Maltby.
REVELATION BY VISION.
One of the seanqes through the mediumship of Mrs.
Bird, of Park-lane, Brixton, recorded about a year ago
in these pages, set forth how a lady friend of Mrs. Bird
appeared to her in a vision, and stated that she had
departed earth-life a few hours previously; Mrs. Bird
tried to shake off the spirit influence acting upon her,
for she supposed the message to he unreliable, yet the
revelation then made proved afterwards to he true. At
a more recent seance at which Miss Williamson, Mr.
Bird, and Mr. Harrison were present, the same spirit
tried to communicate as follows:—
Mrs. Bird went into the trance and clairvoyant state,
and slowly made the following remarks, with long pauses
between most of the sentences, as if the communications
were made with difficulty :—I can hear a voice, hut
cannot see anything; I am blind, but I can hear a
voice which is known to me. It is a merry voice, full
of music, hut it seems so far off that it is like an echo
among the hills; I cannot get near that voice, or ascer¬
tain where it comes from; I have tried to follow it,
but cannot. \_Here the medium made a very long pause.']
I wish it were not so dark, for if there were light, and
I could see, it would be very beautiful, I am sure. 0,
dear! I cannot get any further. [Here the medium
made another long pause.] I have been long in search
of somebody I cannot find; I had to go higher and
higher, and further and further off, so I have come
back to where I started. Sing. O! I have such a
pain in my head. I do not know who it is influencing
my head, but I cannot resist it any longer, although
it is very unpleasant to me; I must go where they
wish to [ take me. Somebody has crushed my head
between his hands, and makes me go where he wishes
by my head, yet I feel better because it is lighter;
but I am led blindfold, and that is what I do not like.
I begin to think I am going to my friends because they
could not come to me. It is a strong influence, and
rather a rough one, which is leading me. There’s a
door, but I have passed it; it was like an ordinary
door, but I am not in a room. I see somebody, I do
not know who. It is in the form of a lady, but
covered with drapery from head to foot. I can go no
further. I can see nothing but the drapery, and I
shall see it until it is transfigured before me, for I know
it will do so. I wonder if all this is symbolical, re-
82
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Feb. 12, 1875.
presenting an imperfect state of my vision. She is
moving, so I will follow her. I seem to be following a
white cloud: I am enveloped in clouds, white and
beautiful, but I am following this figure, and the voice
which I heard at first. I will take hold of it; I can
bear it no longer. Why does she not turn or show her
face, or speak to me as she used to speak ? It is Mrs.
S—. I could not reach her to-night at first; I could
not throw off all this earth sphere—which is about me
—to get to her, and she has had a difficulty in coming
to me. She gathered up, and gathered up, as she came
along, something that covered her and clung to her,
one covering over another, as though the earth’s atmo¬
sphere wrapped itself about her. Now she’s throwing
it off, but I cannot touch her, for something divides us.
How happy I feel! I feel as though I had left earth
and were altogether above it; I am so very light., I
am so very light, I feel as if I could float, and I have
a desire to go higher. I think I should go if she did
not hold me steadily. Tell me something before you
go; give me some sign; I cannot understand your
language. I can see something a long way off. I am
following Mrs. S—’s finger as she points ; she wants to
make me understand in vision how difficult it is for
her to communicate. I seem to be sitting high above
you and looking down upon the world in which you
live; looking up I see nothing, only brightness. I
cannot tell you when I shall see more; it is all con¬
fusion, and I feel sure that it is her influence upon me.
A hundred thoughts keep rushing through my mind,
but nothing connected; words, and thoughts, and
names keep presenting themselves in confusion. All
the time I was trying to look at what she was pointing
out to me she was standing here at my left-hand side.
Now she is on this side, trying to speak in my ear.
She says that the friends of the medium told her that
she could make me understand better what she had to
say by vision than in any other way, but she failed to
give me a full idea of the difficulties under which, she
labours in trying to communicate through mediums.
From her sphere she can see you and those she loves
best on earth, and in certain states can come very near
to you, mentally and spiritually. In coming to circles
and to mediums who are strange to her, she gathers up
something that covers, and confuses, and even blinds
her, so that she cannot be recognised. Yet she is the
same; her heart beats the same, and her love and
affection are as fresh as ever, and more intense because
the higher life is more intense. She hopes to have
opportunities before many months are over of convey¬
ing messages to several of her friends. She will watch
for favourable conditions, and there is one message for
M . [Here some 'private particulars were given.~\ I
cannot get messages,' and I feel as if I could cry be¬
cause I cannot get them; even the vision of herself
comes and goes. . I cannot get the message, although I
know there is one, so I shall ask her to release me.
Seance with Mk. Williams.—Last Saturday night, at
the ordinary weekly semi-jpublic seance “ for Spiritualists only,”
at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, W.O., Mrs. Neville, Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt, Messrs. Adshead Brothers, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and
others, were present. At the dark seance musical instruments
flew about while Mr. Williams’s hands were held as usual. A
person present appeared not to be a Spiritualist; he made
flippant remarks in imitation of Lord Dundreary, and just
before John King appeared expressed the hope that “ the
j-j-jolly old g-g-ghost wouldn’t t-t-tumble.” However, he did
not tumble, but floated to the ceiling, which seemed to startle
the talkative gentleman, for he kept quiet afterwards.
(Eorrespotmence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—In reference to the article in a recent number of The
Spiritualist, entitled, “ Speculations Relating to Spirit Iden¬
tity,” I think I can offer a little personal experience in the
matter, as far as the giving of names and addresses by spirits
is concerned.
As a medium I have never yet been unconscious, and
although I get good table movements, and strong automatic
controls, yet I know that the activity of my own mind in¬
fluences in many cases the manifestations. For instance, on
one occasion, about twelve months ago, I had been giving
some tests to a lady friend about a brother of whose existence
I was unaware ; they were good tests, that she was satisfied
with, but last of all she earnestly wished the name to be
given. Instead of getting it alphabetically through the table,
as some of the former were given, my hand was controlled to
take up the pencil, and I dashed off Cl , or what appeared
like Ch or Cl . Now, in my mind, while writing those
two first letters, “Charles ” was the word I thought it would
be, and that spoilt the test no doubt, for the next time of trial
the controlling power wrote Cl , but the “ Charles ” in
my mind prevented the finishing of the word into “ Clement,”
which was the proper name.
My general experience of getting tests is, that the best I
get are those that are not asked for; and in nearly all cases
where I myself or others ask for this, that, or the other, the
answers are totally unreliable. For instance, about three
weeks ago, while sitting at home reading, after my day’s busi¬
ness was over, and not thinking of Spiritualism, my chair was
tilted four times, by which I knew my attention was required.
So on giving the alphabet, I obtained the initials of L. R 
(who is the sister of a friend of mine, and who made her
identity known to him a short time previously), and also the
words “ Go to Chester-le-street,” the fulfilling of which
was by no means clear to me for many reasons, so I pro¬
mised I would the first time an opportunity offered, but
on asking for reasons and particulars, I could get nothing.
About a week afterwards Mr. Robinson called on me, informing
me that on the preceding day he had formed a circle at
Chester-le-street, and if I would come out on the Sunday fol¬
lowing, and give them the benefit of my mediumship, they
would be obliged. I consented of course, and in the evening
of Sunday, Jan. 24th, I found myself at a circle of strangers.
I was automatically controlled, and made to draw the outline
of a female form, just as a boy would chalk it on the
wall, so I understood, at once there was a female spirit
for some one present. The next thing was to make me
take one of the gentleman’s hands, and on the fourth
finger of the left hand mark as it were an invisible
wedding ring, causing me to jump to the conclusion
that it was his or some one else’s wife. I was wrong, but I
said nothing then, for I was led across the room to where
stood a large old-fashioned chest of drawers. I stroked them,
patted them, cleaned them, and in fact exhibited a deal of
affection for' them; so I explained to the circle that as far as
I understood the matter there was a female spirit present, the
wife of one of them, and she was connected with the chest of
drawers in her earth life. On resuming my seat at the table
I grasped a gentleman’s hand opposite me very affectionately,
and he, beginning to fancy who it was, asked for the age when
she passed to spirit life; it was correctly given through the
table. He informed the company that it was his wife’s
sister, and the furniture in question belonged to her; and as
a further test, the name was asked for through the table, but
it was fruitless. I hear that they have since sat with good
results and tests. In this case, you see, the controlling powers
either could not or would not give the name which was asked
for, but what was given was nearly all unexpected, and not
asked for.
I have another instance worthy of mention. Myself and
friend were sitting one evening alone after supper, having a
quiet chat, when I was controlled by one or two of my usual
controlling powers, after which I felt a strange influence take
possession of me. I felt stout; I stroked imaginary whiskers;
and I exhibited great attention to my wearing apparel. We
could get no further information than that it was a stranger to
me, but one known to my friend; all further questions were un¬
satisfactory, and we took our departure to the railway station
to meet a train. It was about ten at night, and we were
Feb. 12, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
8
standing in a retired part of the platform talking, when I felt
my right arm controlled, the one which held my umbrella, a
common occurrence with me. On giving the alphabet, we
obtained the letters S-m-i-t-h, to the astonishment of my
friend, for that was the name of a friend of his whose ways
answered to my strange control just before leaving home, and
this Mr. Smith, who exhibited such affection for my wearing
apparel, was in earth life a tailor. In this case, again, what
was asked for was not reliable ; what came unasked for was.
So the lesson I derive from these things is this—“ To take
what comes, and let our spirit friends do what they can in
their own way as well as they are able under the circum¬
stances.” Beyond that I find everything, almost without
exception, unreliable. Jas. Thos. Rhodes.
30, Oorbridge-street, Byker, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Feb. 3.
TRAVEIiLING IN THE SPIRIT.
Sir,—From childhood I have had vivid dreams of flying,
so vivid that it has always been almost impossible to believe
that the >power was confined to dream life only. Thus the
recent correspondence in the Daily News has been of true
interest to me, as it will have been to all Spiritualists.
Taken in connection with the facts in those numerous
letters, the following experience may be worth stating, as it
points to the fact that during the hours of sleep the spirit
wanders free.
About ten years ago I commenced my first lengthened stay
at St. Leonard’s. I was very ill, and had been confined to my
room for some weeks, when one night I found myself flying
through streets which I recognised as those close by where
I was living. It was dark; the streets were empty, no sign of
any human beings about., Had this been an ordinary dream,
or recollection, I should have seen the streets as they are by
day, and not as I found them, in the absolute solitude and
darkness of the hour at which my spirit wandered forth.
I entered a house, floated or fleio upstairs, remarking to my¬
self, as I looked curiously around, “ Why, this is where I am
lodging! ” I entered my bedroom, and approached the side
of the bed on which I saw my body lying asleep, but looking so
death-like that I said, as I gazed intently at it, “ Why, I am
dead 1 ” Probably my spirit at that instant returned/to its
body, for I remember no more, but on waking in the morning
my night’s experience was very vivid, so that I asked for a
looking-glass to be brought close to me, and therein sure
enough I saw myself, greatly changed by illness, as my face
had appeared when in spirit I was looking at my body. Pro¬
bably, also, to the spirit the appearance would be unusually
death-like, on account of the trance condition which could
produce such a result as to allow the spirit to be consciously
looking upon its own earth-body. This is now a recognised
fact in mediumship.
Shortly after this, again my spirit wandered forth during
the body’s sleep, and it was given me to receive at the same
time a strangely vivid vision, illustrative of faith and trust.
I will venture to copy from the record I made of it at the
time in my “ Spiritual diary,” then in its early commence¬
ment. If you can afford space for it in your valuable journal,
I think it may be that it will be as helpful to some of your
readers as it was to me.
I thought, or dreamed, that I was loitering on the beach at
Hastings. It was a bright, lovely morning in the early spring.
Seeing a large vessel, I hired it for an hour’s sail; entering it,
quite alone, I found myself at once launched upon a very
rough, deep sea. When fairly off from the shore, by one of
those sudden changes incident to dreams, and, however incon¬
sistent, producing no surprise, I lost all sight of the vessel that
I was in. I found my seat most frail; I could only keep it by
holding as firmly as possible to the edge of a sail that was
near me, but, as it was unfurled and flapping violently in the
breeze, it seemed rather to increase the precariousness of my
position than otherwise. Strange as it may seem, I felt that I
was safe ; I was conscious that skilful seamen, though unseen,
were close at hand, guiding the vessel. As I sat on this frail
seat, clinging to the flapping sail, with the wind whistling
loudly around me, and the waves dashing fiercely at my feet,
knowing that to leave go of the sail for a moment must plunge
me into a watery grave, still I had the fullest sense of delight,
both at the glorious scene of the dashing foaming waves, and
the pure air, the “breath of heaven,” which was the more
invigorating to me because of my long imprisonment in the
house from illness.
Suddenly the track was changed, and with a fearful plunge
I was carried down, down. The danger was imminent—waves,
foaming and fierce, rose mountains high. My seat and the
sail were gone; but unseen hands firmly upheld me as a baby
is upheld in its father’s hands. Thus supported, I was lying
upon the waters. Far above me I could see anxious faces, as
of a multitude, watching my perilous position, but powerless
to help me. An immense wave rose perpendicularly, and was
about to fall over me, but happy and safe in this unseen sup¬
port, I felt nothing but delight at the wild scene around me,
and was sorry at that moment to find returning consciousness
to daily life. But as I was aroused, I heard a distinct voice,
apparently from the foot of my bed. Clearly and calmly it
said, “ Your dream is an emblem of your present life. If you
can so calmly trust to unseen human aid, can you not still
more serenely rest in the arms of your loving, heavenly Father,
who, with His holy angels, is ever near to you, ready to support
you in the deep waters of affliction now rolling around you ?
Fear not, but trust 1”
On the evening of that day, upon taking- the pencil to see if
I might receive a few words by spirit-writing, I received the
following :—
“ Your dream was sent to illustrate the deep faith you should
repose in your heavenly Father. It emblemised your life.
You are now in the deep rough part. God is placing His
everlasting arms beneath you, and will never fail. Ah! learn
from it to trust, even when help can only come from unseen
and heavenly sources. Dear one, trust unwaveringly in the
love of your God.
“ The waves dashed high, the wind rose keen,
As the helpless bark rolled on;
No help was nigh, no hand was seen,
All hope of life seemed gone.
Yet still no fear rose in the breast
Of the lone and helpless one 1
Her God was near. Well might she rest,
Fearless, amidst the storm.
Strong hands upheld the sinking barque,
Help all unseen was nigh,
’Tis ever thus, whilst all seems dark,
And waves of sorrow high
Rise threatening round the pilgrim’s path
As the stream of life glides by.”
St. Leonard’s-on-Sea. F. J. T.
AID FOR MR. WALLACE, THE MEDIUM.
Sir,—As you have a notice in your last issue of the inten¬
tion of some friends to aid Mr. Wallace (an old Spiritualist),
who I hear is really in want of help just now, allow me to say,
through your columns, that I shall be most happy to receive
subscriptions from any of your numerous readers, as we have
known him to have been for many years a hard worker in the
cause. Subscriptions sent to “Mrs. Everitt, Lilian-villa,
Holders-hill, Hendon,” will be duly acknowledged in The
Spiritualist. The following have been already received:—
W. P. Adshead, £1 Is.; Mr. Martin Smith, £1 Is.; Mr. Regan,
5s.; Mr. Smedly, 2s. 6d. M. A. Everitt.
Hendon, N.W.   
SPIRITUALISM IN EDINBURGH.
Sir,—As in your last issue “ A Spiritualist” takes some
trouble to inform, the world that “ The Edinburgh Psycholo¬
gical Society is defunct,” I write to say that our kind friend is
very much mistaken. The not meeting for months, which he
takes for a sign of death, is not even a characteristic of sus¬
pended animation. The fact is, that the executive, sick of
slow and scanty attendances, have recommended the really
earnest, investigating workers of the society to meanwhile
more particularly cultivate the different district private
circles, till some more star mediums honour us with a visit,
when, of course, we shall have a full turn out of the sensational
section of the society. J. D. Morrison,
Corresponding Secretary of the Psychological
Society of Edinburgh.
Sir,—It has occurred to me in reference to the passive state
of Spiritualism in Edinburgh, and in places where a similar
state of matters exists, that it might be a good idea to borrow
a hint from our London friends. As. stated in your issue of
the 29th ult., the society in Edinburgh is practically
extinct; but while this is so, a good many Spiritualists
remain, and it seems to me a pity that some means Should not
be taken to facilitate intercourse between them and to keep
the cause moving. Now in present circumstances I see
nothing better calculated to do this than an occasional tea
meeting. I am too recent a convert to take a leading part in
the matter, but if I could be of any service I am willing
to assist
84   THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 12, 1875.
Were the idea thought over by a committee it could doubt¬
less be easily managed, and out of such meetings, arranged for
such times as might be found expedient, a more tangible
organisation might grow in time. M.
Bonnington, near Edinburgh.
MBS. woodfobde’s. MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—Permit me to say a word on behalf of Mrs. Woodforde’s
mediumship, which, I think, only requires to be better under¬
stood to be more highly appreciated. My own experience of
her powers is as follows :—I was developed about six months
ago for the first time as a writing medium by a well-known
American medium, and went on swimmingly for a month or
two. Previously, I had never dreamt of possessing any
mediumistic qualifications whatever, and had always imagined
that I was of the positive order of mind. I have no reason
to doubt that; but my experience teaches me that positive-
minded men may be very good impressional mediums, without
being aware of the fact, and by proper development they may
become writing mediums. This has been my experience at
any rate. 1 was much pleased with my new acquisition, and
fondly imagined I should be able to convince all my
friends of the truth of Spiritualism without difficulty. The
communicating spirit—who had given me long and interesting
messages touching the mode and conditions of life in the
spirit world, and had to some extent gained my confidence—
promised to aid me in my project, and assured me he would
astonish my friends by predicting their futures, besides con-i
veying messages from their departed relatives. He also pre¬
dicted events of great public interest, which he advised me to
send to The Spiritualist for publication. With these promises
before me, I went in boldly for convincing my friends; but
with the first attempt my anticipation of mediumistic fame
came to an untimely end, and I found that it was—if not all
vanity and vexation of spirit—in all probability something
worse. All my “ predictions” turned out to be lies, and I gave
up writing mediumship in disgust.
This was my experience when I made Mrs. Woodforde’s
acquaintance. Her specialty being the removal of undesirable
spirit influences, led me to believe that she would answer my
case; nor have I been disappointed. After a week’s sittings,
I find myself in complete possession of all my former power of
communication with the spirit world; but in place of a spirit
“guide,” who, I am told, though an intellectual man, was
simply amusing himself at my expense, and could therefore
have been no desirable companion, I have been taken charge of
by a friend of Mrs. Woodforde’s spirit guides, whose truthful¬
ness and purity of teaching I have hitherto had no reason to
doubt. I hopet® be able to leave your readers to judge of the
merits of his communications in a few articles which I
intend submitting to their notice in your columns entitled
The Spirit and the Body.
I trust that those who think it a privilege to receive such
messages may feel disposed to consult a medium who can do
every one much good. I need only point out that we all have
spirit companions, and, as in my first case, they may be of a
very undesirable sort. They may not write false messages
through our hands, but they may impress false ideas on our
brains, and make us depressed and unhappy when we might
be cheerful and hopeful. In fact, the removal of all disagree¬
able spiritual surroundings causing unhappiness in various
forms, may be considered no less a part of Mrs. Woodforde’s
powers than developing mediumship. In this light I look
upon her as a true spiritual counsellor and healer, and as
such I can strongly recommend her to your readers’ notice.
A Spiritualist.
Thought Reading.—Mr. Brown, the mind-reader, paid
a visit, by invitation, to Professor Pickering and other pro¬
fessors at the Institute of Technology on Saturday, and it
was arranged that he should submit to careful scientific tests
to-night at the Horticultural Hall. He was asked to give one
illustration of his power, and consented to do so. Professor
Pickering thought of a small knob in a room of the Institute
which Mr. Brown had never seen. Mr. Brown was blind¬
folded, and, although he had no knowledge of what the ob¬
ject selected was, nor where it was, he led the Professor
rapidly out of the room in which he was and soon entered
the right room, walked among the tables and instruments
without disturbing any of them, and pointed out the object
thought of. Professor Pickering has invited the Harvard
professors to unite with him to-night in making scientific
experiments. Mr. Redpath has also specially invited detec¬
tives of false “ mediums” to he present.—itostow Daily Globe.
THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF LIGHT.
Last Friday night, Mr. James Dewar, F.R.S.E., lectured at
the Eoyal Institution, on some discoveries made by himself
and Dr. John M’Kendrick, of Edinburgh, upon the “Physio¬
logical Action of Light.” He took a frog which had been
killed under chloroform, and extracted one of its eyes, which
he supported upon two terminal points of wet clay, moistened
with sulphate of zinc; these terminals were connected with
a reflecting galvanometer, which at once exhibited a deflection
due to the electrical current developed by the tissues of the
eye. The front of the eye rested upon one clay point, whilst
the back of the eye rested upon the other. Now and then he
allowed light to fall upon the arrangement, when of course it
acted upon the side of the eye. Every time a flash of light
fell upon the eye, an electrical current was generated in the
retina, which caused a deflection of the needle of the gal¬
vanometer ; a single flash was sufficient, not much' addi¬
tional effect being produced by the prolongation of the
action of light. Every time be shut off the light there
was another sharp deflection, which he proved with tole¬
rable certainty to be due to the recovery of sensitiveness
by the eye, when left in the dark. Most of the eyes of frogs
when used in experiments like these, lived, he said, for two or
three hours. The electrical disturbance was not caused by the
dark heat contained in light, since the effect was just the same
with candle light which had been passed through a solution of
alum, or with moonlight. The point of interest of these ex¬
periments to Spiritualists, is this—he proved that light falling
upon the eyes of frogs and of other animals, generated an
electrical current in the retina, the action of which is con¬
tinued to the brain, also that this effect is continuous so long
as the light acts, although it is much greatest at the instant
when light first falls upon the eye. This current from the
retina ceases to flow when the eye is in darkness, and the eye
then recovers its vitality. Thus at seances, one source at
least, if not more, of the consumption of vital energy is cut off
by darkness, consequently to this extent, if not to a greater
degree, there is less loss of nervous energy in the dark than
there is in the light.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INGUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE THIRD ANNUAL EVENING CONCERT
OF THIS SOCIETY WILL TAKE PLACE IN
QUEBEC HALL, LOWER SEYMOUB-STREET, PORTMAN-SQUARE,
ON .
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22ND, 1875.
Artists.
Miss Malvina CJaxton. The Misses Maltby. Miss Annes.
Miss Lizzie Clarke. Miss D’Arcy.
Mr. Robert Castelden. Mr. F. Tindall. Mr. J. Claxton.
Messrs. W. and H. Griffiths. Mr. Arthur Russell, &c.
See Programme.
Doors open at 7. 30. To commence at 8 o’clock. Reserved Stalls 2s.;
Hall Is. I Balcony 6d.
Admission by Ticket, to be obtained at the Hall, or of the following
gentlemen:—Mr. Cowper, 388, Edgware-road; Mr. Friehold, 9, North-
street, Manchester-square; Mr. Griffiths, 36, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-
wood; Mr. Whittingham, 27, Warren-street, Fitzroy-square ; Mr. Maltby,
8, Hanover-place, Regent’s-park; Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove; Mr.
Cain, 12, Oak-villa, Kentish-towq ; Mr. Hooker, 33, Henry-street, St.
1 ohn’s Wood; Mr. Draisey, 64, St. Ann’s-road, Notting-hill. and of Mr.
Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row..
Charles]!.[Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
OSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.—IN¬
STRUCTIVE LECTURES to HUMANITY, are delivered every
Sunday evening, by Trance, Inspirational and other Mediums. Doors open
at 6.30, service at 7 o’clock. Admission Free.'
INSTRUCTIYE LECTURES TO HUMANITY are
Delivered every Sunday Evening at Gosweli Hall, 86, Goswell-road,
E.C.—Dr. G. SEXTON, L.L.D., F.Z.S., &c., Editor of The Spiritual Magazine
and of The Christian Spiritualist, will deliver a discourse on the 14th of
February, and Mr. R. Cogman (of the Spiritual Institution, Mile-end), on
the 21st of February, 1875. Various Trance, Inspirational, and other
Mediums will occupy the platform every Sunday evening. Service at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free.
OATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derhy-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year’s Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived, and invites inspection. Mrs. 0. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. "White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8£d. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
Feb. 12, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
'ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANT®, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, W.C._
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
■RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, 'will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.G.
ANNIE EYA FAY has taken Rooms at 21, Princes”
street, Hanover-square, W., where she will be pleased to receiv®
friends on Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, at eight o’clock in the
evening, when light and dark seances for physical manifestations will be
given. Terms, ten shillings each person. Tickets may be obtained of Mr-
Mitchell, 33, Old Bond-street, W., or of Mr. Ollivier, New Bond-street, W.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
"OROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDLER (30 Pears estah-
i lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G-. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
TSS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND 1
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To he seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will he forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford
ad, Bow, London, E.
kR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to. patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. eadh; hour
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
■ESSRS. PECK and SADLER, TRANCE and PHYSI¬
CAL MEDIUMS, are OPEN to ENGAGEMENTS in any part of
the Country, for Private or Public Seances. Terms, as per arrangements. '
Seances (when at home), Wednesday, 2s. 6d.; Saturday, 5s. Address, No.
1a, Nelson-terrace, Cardiff.
Trance mediumshtp for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may he obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. .Price—Large size, 3s.; small size,Is.
►SYCHISCHE STUDIEN, A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, 'Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hfll, Hendon. N.W.
Fiiz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodM, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Beathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice.D.D , 44,Netherwobd-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terraee, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
FUz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughhorough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 47 Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thus., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isbam, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
[ Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-bill, W,
King, George, F.S.S., 40,Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noswortby, Mrs.F. A., Birmingham.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A_,M.D., LL.D., &c.,17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwioh-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
SneUing, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-bill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
i Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, l,ee, S.E. .
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altehburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres-
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-bill, W. {Foreign Corns*
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Oamden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Alde-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
i The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonohitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J.Tybrman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq>, Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
0. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave deVeh, 26, Avenue des Ghamps-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
[ Dr, Franz Hoffmann, ‘Wurzburg, Bayaria.|
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 12, 1875.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.G-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Eev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. iDrs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
Wrilliam B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That .these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means qf a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-c6mmittees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   ■
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing, medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other' or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People whp do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations.will probably
be table tiltings or raps. , .
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?" When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
In the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink Somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
■Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., I.LM.; Mr. 0.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze;'Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
fTlHE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of ihe most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, B.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial (paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the jpath of duty; also _the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions Of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
Beady by January 1 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Boob. A new
work on
SPIRITUALISM, SCIENCE, AND CHRISTIANITY;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Mediumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and' many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. 6d.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holbom, London, W.C.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2£d. Published on
the 15th of each month, hV the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Beigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, &c.
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. ; Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor ,by Beyeridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of .St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E, W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.O.
