AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 102.—(VOL. V.—No. 6.)
LONDON: AUGrUST 7, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Tbe 1874 Conference     ... ... 61
The Soiree at the Beethoven Rooms—The Report of the Secretaries—
Mr. Coleman’s Presidential Address—Financial Statement—New
Physical Mediums   ... ...,   61
The Conference at Gower-street—Dr. Gully’s Presidential Address—
Mr. Harrison on the Promotion of National Organisation—Mr.
Martheze on the Education of the Children of Spiritualists—The
Prospectus of the National Association—Mr. John Chapman on
National Organisation—Mr. R. Cooper on Physical Manifestations 64
Materialised Spirit Forms in America   69
The Mohammedan Paradise      69
Correspondence—The Influence of the Minds of Mediums upon Com¬
munications, 70; Materialised Spirit Forms, 70; A Folkestone
Clergyman on Spiritualism, 70; A Divining Rod Seance, 70;
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor’s Mediumship, 71; Bible Buddhism, 71;
Early Theories claimed as Novelties, 71; The Mediumship of
Mohammed, 72; the Spirit calling himself an Egyptian  72
Answers to Correspondents ...     ,   ... 72
Paragraphs—Liverpool Psychological Society  ,.   72
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 8s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on apphea-
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
"OIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
■ J Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or 'sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
JL (Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, October 15th, 1874.
He has a few vacant dates for September next; early application is
necessary.
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very phUoso-
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
‘‘The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.   —
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
O THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British national Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, Price One Penny.
T
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
OF
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman. V ork-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
XT'AST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS. — LEG-*
TURES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions. .
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Cass on.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd
Mr. Bretherton,
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
| Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY
having engaged Mrs. O. L. V. TAP PAN for Sunday, August, 30th,
MR. MORSE, whose regular engagement with the above Society falls on
the same date, has kindly consented to withdraw in favour of Mrs. Tappan.
The above society would esteem it a favour if one of the numerous Spirit¬
ualist Committees in the provinces could engage Mr. Morse's services for
the above date. For address see Mr. Morse's list of meetings.
ORATIONS ON SPIRITUALISM. — Marylebone
Music Hall, High-street, Marylebone. Dr. Sexton, M.A., LL.D.
(Editor of The Christian Spiritualist), will deliver (D.V.) at the above Hall,
a series of Orations on the above subject, on Sunday evenings, August 2nd,
9th, 16th, and 23rd. Reserved SSats One Shilling, and other seats free by
ticket only, to be obtained of the following gentlemen:—Mr. J. Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, W.C.; Mr. F. Cowper, 338, Edgeware-road; Mr. J.
Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove; Mr. Whitley, 2, Wellington-terrace, Bays-
water; Mr. J. Hooker, 33, Henry-street, St. John’s-wood; Mr. T. Whitting-
ham, 27, Warren-street, Fitzroy-square; and of the Secretary, C. White,
46, Dorset-street, W. Admission Tickets for these Orations must be
obtained on or before the Saturday previous to their delivery.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 7, 1874;
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-c6m-
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The. Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fixton, Secretary pro tern.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in jClerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Association.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are oeasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WHIR’S court),
NEWGATE STREET, NE W0ASTLE-ON-TTNE.
President.—jMx. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. Jolih Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
TRtiBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo.
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8yo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d. j
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
(Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubnbr & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
YrawMrav—Herbert N. Mozlet, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing Jof all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly \ Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President. '
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo.,. price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. ' By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,’’and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC - SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J.M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientiflc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national gnd local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.'
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established'X&ZZ.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Libge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
MEYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris- Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
VOJutlJVtE FIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
JHUjVIBEI^ £IX.
AUGUST 7th, 1874
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMEHTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.-
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous "Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. "W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. JE. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, II. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—"Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader/241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &e., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Gastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—!. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the. next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Orddr for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT DALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
THE 1874 CONFERENCE.
The second Annual Conference of Spiritualists opened
last Tuesday with an excellent soiree at the Beethoven
Rooms, Harley-street, Cavendish-square, London.
There was a full attendance, although most of the
leading metropolitan Spiritualists are now out of town.
Yesterday and on Tuesday meetings were held at Law¬
son’s Rooms, Gower-street, at which papers were read
and discussed, and to-day there will be two meetings
at the Crystal Palace, the impediments to transacting
business there, as mentioned in our last, having been
removed. To-day’s meetings will he held in the
Marble Hall, the entrance to which is near the large
crystal fountain in 4he Crystal Palace.
Of the business already transacted, one of the most
important items is the official announcement by the
secretaries that the Association will undertake no work
which cannot be liquidated by whatever funds it may
have in hand. This pledge not to run into debt secures
the permanence of the Association, and guarantees
that its influence will not be weakened. Even had it
no income at all, its existence is of the utmost value to
Spiritualism as the only central representative body we
have in this country, composed of leading Spiritualists,
free from commercial interests in the progress of the
movement. All good workers feel the existence of
such a disinterested and representative body to be' a
powerful safeguard, absolutely necessary in the present
state of Spiritualism.
Another important item in the business of the Con¬
ference is the munificent offer of Mr. Tiedeman
Martheze to subscribe £200 a year for a limited period
to establish schools for the children of Spiritualists, if
a few others will join him, and subscribe a like amount
each. There was no leisure to discuss this useful pro¬
position, the time appointed for so doing being taken up
by unexpected business which might have been deferred.
THE SOIREE AT THE BEETHOYEN ROOMS.
Last Tuesday night, at the soiree of the British National
Association of Spiritualists at the Beethoven Booms, Cavendish-
square, London, there was a full meeting, and a fair proportion
of visitors from the provinces attended, Liverpool especially
being well represented.
Among the ladies and gentlemen present were Mr. J. M.
Gully, M.D., Miss Cooper, Mrs. G. N. Strawbridge, Miss
Kislinghury, Miss de Segehaden, Mrs. Hall, Miss Lottie
Fowler, Miss Yassar, Miss Claxton, Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Maltby,
Miss Maltby, Miss Shorter, Mrs. Rogers, Mrs. K. Cook, Mrs.
Withall, Miss Sexton, Miss Withall, Miss Houghton, Miss
Maynard, Messrs. J. Lament, Archibald Lament, A. Joy,
J. T. Martheze, T. Everitt, E. T. Bennett, George Sexton,
John Chapman, T. Shorter, A. Glendinning, Malcolm Taylor,
-Harry Bastian, D. Richmond, 0. Bassett, E. D. Rogers,
W. P. Adshead, Earl Bird, Frank Everitt, G. Maltby, William
White, Keningale Cook, George Farmer, G. Maynard, Desmond
Fitz®Gerald, H. T. Humphreys, S. R. Bennett, R. Colquhoun,
J. Rudall, J. A. Partarelli, G. B. Clark, F. Edwards, J. D.
i Hilton, J. B. Griffin, D. Farrell, J. Pope, R. Yan Gelder,
62
THE SPIKITUALIST.
W. Munsen (ex M.P.), J. Regan, G-. H. Adshead, A. Adshead,
H. J. Gill, A. L. Henderson, and Dr. Pearce.
Refreshments were provided in the early part of the evening.
The proceedings were enlivened by some music and singing
by amateurs of considerable ability, who had kindly volun¬
teered their assistance. The first piece was by Mr. Clemens,
who gave a pianoforte solo, “ Schumann,” followed by a song
by Miss Ellen Cooper;
Mr. Benjamin Coleman then took the chair, and among the
other gentlemen on the platform were Dr. Gully, Mr. E. T.
Bennett, Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. John Lament,
Mr. Morse, Mr. Bastian, and Mr. Taylor.
THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARIES.
Mr. Algernon Joy, C.E., then read the following report:—
Mr. Chairman, Ladies, and Gentlemen,—You are probably
most of you aware that the British National Association of
Spiritualists, which convened this Conference, derives its ex¬
istence from certain resolutions passed at the National Con¬
ference held at Liverpool on the 5th August and two follow¬
ing days last year. The question was there raised whether or
not a national organisation already existed, an attempt having
been made at the conference held at Darlington in 1872 to
establish one; but, it was decided, almost unanimously, that
this attempt had failed. The failure was due partly to want of
sufficient previous preparation, partly to other causes which
need not be here entered into.
At the Conference last year, ninety Spiritualists from
different parts of the country entered their names on the
attendance register. There were representatives, official and
otherwise, from London, Edinburgh, Darlington, Newcastle,
Rochdale, Glasgow, Manchester, Keighley, Carlisle, Preston,
Bristol, Swindon, and many other places, besides Liverpool.
Of course there were many present in addition to the above-
named ninety, who did not choose to record their names, and
whom, therefore, it is not fair to’quote as approving the pro¬
ceedings, though doubtless many of them did so, and also
took part in the voting. The proceedings were very fully re¬
ported in the Spiritualist of August 15th and that of Sept.
15th, 1873, by which it appears that the following motion was
carried unanimously : “ That this Conference, being a repre¬
sentative one, do constitute itself into a National Association,
and elect from its own body, and from the representatives of
other societies not present, an executive council, to administer
the plans decided upon by the National Association for the
coming year.” Also the following: “That this Conference
invite its president, Mr. T. Everitt, also Messrs. J. 0. Lux-
moore, A. E. Lovell, T. Blyton, A. C. Swinton, D. H. Wilson,
R. Cogman, of London; also Dr. J. M. Gully, of Malvern
(now of London); Messrs. Andrew Leighton, J. Chapman,
J. Shepherd, J. Lamont, and T. Dimsdale, of Liverpool;
Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester; Dr. G. B. Clark,
Edinburgh; and Mr. J. Brown, of Glasgow, to form them¬
selves into an executive head, with power to add to their
number, to carry out the objects of the National Association.”
All the above-named, with the exception of four, consented
to act, and of the four who declined, three expressed sympa¬
thy with and approval of the objects of the Association, and
declined to act on purely personal grounds.
The embryo council had various meetings in London, and
invited all the leading Spiritualists who had not expressed
decided hostility to join their ranks. Some few have declined
on various grounds, chiefly personal, but most of them have
joined us, and nearly all have expressed sympathy and
approval.
On the 24th Nov., 1873, the Council met to revise the con¬
stitution and rules, which had been drawn up by a select
committee. These, having been adopted, in the form in
which you now see them, were circulated, together with our
“ Declaration of Principles and Purposes,” among all well-
known Spiritualists and all existing Spiritualist societies at
home and abroad ; and though they have not met with the
approval of all parties, a considerable number of members
has since then been added to the ranks.
Our next work was to present ourselves to the London
Spiritualistic public, and to inaugurate our corporate existence
by holding a soiree on the 15th of April last, at the Cleveland
Hall, Portland-road-station, at which Mr. S. C. Hall, P.S.A.,
presided. This was attended by about 240 persons, and left
the Association with a balance in hand of £1 12s. lOd. On
the 21st May, a public meeting was held at the Quebec Insti¬
tute, Seymour-street, Dr. Sexton being in the chair. Some
four or five hundred persons attended, the majority of whom
appeared to be non-spiritualists, and showed great interest
Aug. 7, 1874.
in the proceedings, Mrs. Tappan, Messrs. Morse, Enmore Jones,
and Shorter addressed the meeting, besides Dr. Sexton. This
matter cost the Association about £12. Yarious committees
have been appointed. Among others, one to draw up bye¬
laws for the regulation of meetings, &o., which has not quite
completed its labours. A finance committee, which has pre¬
pared, but not yet presented its report to the council, has
systematised the accounts, and placed the monetary affairs of
the Association in due order of arrangement. A report of
receipts and expenditure is read by the secretary in
attendance at every meeting of council; the last showed a
clear balance creditor to date of £59 6s. 2d. It has been
decided that the Spiritualist press be now admitted to the
sittings of Council; you will therefore in future receive reports
of all that is going on, and be able to express your opinion, by
means of that press, on all motions before the council. An
attempt was made in the spring to engage the services of
Gerald Massey on his return from America, and to invite him
to give a course of lectures on his recent experiences in that
country. Mr. Massey, however, declined to deliver any lec¬
tures for the present.
The last act of the Council was to give a grant pf £5 to the
Spiritualists of Sower by Bridge in aid of the expenses incurred
by them in building a large Lyceum and lecture hall, the first
work of the kind undertaken by Spiritualists in this country.
The work now in hand, and for which committees have been
appointed is: the selection of suitable offices for the Associa¬
tion ; the circulation of the constitution and rules, with an
advertisement of the same to all the leading London and
provincial journals and learned societies; and the establish¬
ment under the conduct of persons especially appointed by
the Council of public circles, with a view to facilitating the
investigations of inquirers.
This is what the Council have done and purpose doing.
And now a few words with regard to our policy. We have
had, as you know, to encounter some opposition, and we have
been the subject of remarks which cannot be called either
just or encouraging, but we have ho desire to render “ railing
for railing,” and will make no further reference to them on
this occasion. Our intention is to be peaceful, but dauntless.
No opposition will cause us to forsake the work we have
undertaken; but the difficulties we have had to contend with
must be allowed to weigh with our friends in extenuation of
that slowness of movement with which some have reproached
us. If we have been long in constructing our machinery, let
us hope that it will work all the more surely and expeditiously
when once well set going. Suffice it that, having,up to the
present succeeded, on the whole, in establishing amicable
relations both at home and abroad, we have met with support
beyond our expectations, and that we number among our
ranks not only some of the oldest and most influential Spi¬
ritualists, but also many who, by their thoughtfulness and
energy, give promise of good work in time to come.
But, in order that our Association may prosper and be a
great power for usefulness, we shall require to count our
members, not by hundreds, but by thousands, and the extent
of that usefulness will depend greatly on the exertions of the
existing members in bringing reinforcements into the ranks.
Without numbers, which represent funds, your Council cannot
undertake extensive operations; and, if you all stand aloof
till you see what we are going to do, you will be doomed to
disappointment, because we are firmly resolved that we will
do nothing for which we cannot well afford to pay.
The nature of our work depends, therefore, upon you; we
are only responsible for the way in which it is carried out.
Even for the efficiency of your officers you will be answerable
to yourselves, as soon as the rule for electing by ballot comes
into action.
The Association now numbers about one hundred and ninety
ordinary members, eight of whom are life members, fourteen
vice-presidents, and forty-nine members of Council. Among
our honorary, or corresponding members we have many dis¬
tinguished names. Robert Dale Owen, whose writings on
Spiritualism are among the best that have yet been given to
the world ; Alexandre Aksakof, the munificent patron and
promoter of Scientific Spiritualism in Germany; the Baron
and Baroness Yon Yay, who represent the Spiritist movement
in Austria ; Miss Anna Blackwell, Mr. J. M. Peebles, and Mrs.
Emma Hardinge-Britten—names too well known and honoured
amongst us to need further comment here.
The Liverpool Psychological Society has lately set the
example of affiliation, which we hope will be speedily followed
by other societies. A copy of the registration list of members
lies for inspection on the table this evening, and if any present
Aug. 7, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
63
desire to add their names they can do so on application to
myself or my co-secretary; and those who, having already
declared their wish to join, have not paid their subscriptions,
are requested to 40 so at their earliest convenience.
ME. COLEMAN'S PRESIDENTIAL ADDEESS.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman then took the chair, and said
Ladies and Gentlemen,—Permit me in the first place to say
that I did not seek for the honour of presiding on the present
occasion; not, however,from any unwillingness to aid the
cause we are here assembled to promote, but because I have
been unwell, and I feel I cannot now discharge the duties in
an efficient manner, nor with satisfaction to myself. But I
have been assured that you will make every allowance for my
shortcomings, and I promise you th'at I will be as brief in my
remarks as is consistent with the importance of the subject I
am called upon to advocate.
The British National Association of Spiritualists, of which
most of you, I believe, are members, like all other attempts to
organise from a body of men holding in common a central
truth, but who differ as to the best mode of promulgating it,
meets with opposition from more than one source, and strange
as it now sounds in my own ears, I was myself silently opposed,
as a Spiritualist, to organisation. Why I should have been
so, seeing that I have prided myself on having joined all the
successful bo-operative movements of the last half century, I
can give no reasonable explanation. I can only say, if you will
accept it as a reason, that, having done my share of the work
in breaking down the early prejudices which assailed
Spiritualism, I was making up my mind to retire from the
field, and was indifferent to the subject; and when I read the
letter addressed by Mr. Howitt to Mr. Everitt last year, I felt glad
that I had not accepted the honour of presiding at Liverpool
as the originators of the movement desired; for that letter, I
thought, had struck a blow which would, in all probability,
annihilate the Association.
I had been by the side of Mr. Howitt in the propagation
and defence of Spiritualism for more than twenty years. I
respect the high character he justly holds in the social scale.
I admire his powerful and fearless advocacy of an unpopular
truth, and though I have not been able to go with him in all
he has written upon the subject, I am bound to say that his
advocacy of Spiritualism has wrought the most beneficial
results on the public mind of England. But I was aroused
from my state of apathy by reading another letter published,
as Mr. Howitt’s had been, in the Spiritual Magazine, in answer
to Mr. Howitt’s letter on the British Association of Spiritualists,
written by Mr. Algernon Joy, who, you all know, fills the
arduous post of honorary secretary to this society, in con¬
junction with Miss Kislingbury, a very able and energetic lady.
This answer is, to my mind, a complete refutation of the
arguments set forth in Mr. Howitt’s letter, and, if Mr. Joy
had never done anything else for the cause, it would entitle
his name to stand hAioured in the annals of the association.
This reply was dictated, as it should have been, in a very
gentlemanly tone, addressed as it was to an old and tried
worker in the cause of Spiritualism, and the arguments
appeared to me so conclusive as to at once dissolve my
apathetic condition of mind, and induce me to enrol myself
a member of the National Association.
Let us see now what my excellent friend Mr. Howitt
objects-to. He objects to association chiefly on the ground
that “ all history proves ” that it has been fatal to all religious
movement, owing to the dogmatism of individuals, and the
doctrines of sects and of exclusive infallibility set up by them.
But we say, to use Mr. Joy’s argument, We have no dogmas;
we lay no claim to infallibility; we are not a sect. We offer a
common platform to all Spiritualists, whatever their views on
religious or other questions may be.
Our objects are—To obtain strength by unity and mutual
recognition; to spread our philosophy ; to investigate all new
phenomena, and record the facts with the many which have
already been recorded on well-established evidence; to help
weaker brethren, who are isolated among opponents ; to give
information and assistance to investigators; to obtain for
Spiritualism and Spiritualists a recognised status, which no
accumulation of isolated efforts can ever obtain for them, and
thereby to spread the knowledge and influence of Spiritualism
to a far greater extent than has yet been possible.
To do all this it is necessary to raise funds for the establish¬
ment of schools and other institutions, for the payment of
afficient officers to conduct the machinery of the Association,
end for securing well-qualified lecturers to disseminate the
doctrines of Spiritualism.
Mr. Howitt admits that such objects are legitimate for
“ local associations;” and, if so, I cannot understand why
they should not be, in a still higher degree, suited to a
National Association.
Mr, Howitt says we are aiming at supplanting the Almighty I
But this is a grave error. The Almighty works out his ends
by human agency, and we are His humble instruments. One
great danger there is—that of splitting up into sects led by
men whose only object seems to be to serve their own
ambition, and force their crotchets and material interests on
all who may be induced to believe in their wisdom. Such
persons oppose union because it would interfere with their
power to tyrannise over their followers by means of the
machinery at their disposal, and it is my duty to warn you
against being deceived by false pretences, come from whence
they may.
I address myself especially on this point to those present
who reside in country towns and far distant places. We who
reside in the metropolis see more clearly what is doing, and we
can protect ourselves from all charlatanism.
Presuming that none who are here present are opposed to
national organisation, and assuming that 1 have said enough
on that subject for the present, let me remind you how the
cause which we advocate stands in this country at the present
time.
It is to be observed on all hands that the press is much
more tolerant and truthful when dealing with Spiritualism
than has been its wont, and this may arise from the fact that
on the staff of almost every paper published in the metropolis,
there is at least one who is a Spiritualist, and if the same
cannot be said of the local press, we see, at least, country
papers are not afraid now to insertjin their columns all records
of the most remarkable spiritual phenomena without turning
them into ridicule. At the same time several of our best
magazines give fair play to Spiritualism, and allow an oppo¬
nent to be answered; and I know of no one who is better
entitled to the thanks of all truth-seekers]than my friend Mr.
Alfred Wallace, who has replied most ably to an attack made
in the Fortnightly Review by Lord Amberley against
Spiritualism.
I do not know what has been the effect of such an exposure
as Mr. Wallace has made of Lord Amberley’s errors ; but the
son of Lord John Bussell, if he inherits his father’s wisdom,
may be expected ere long to prostrate himself at the feet of
our champion, and frankly acknowledge his conversion.
The recent experiments of Mr. William Crookes, a fellow of
the Boyal Society, with Miss Cook, the now celebrated medium,
which he has had the candour to put upon public record, is
another important step, and shews us that science is not
asleep, as we thought she must be, from her previous apathy
in her relation to Spiritual facts. The remarkable inspira¬
tional orations delivered through the mediumship of Mrs.
Tappan, have no doubt done great service to the cause
in England. So I believe have those delivered by Mr.
Morse, who is a special favourite with our North country
friends, who, I am told, has rendered good service
to this Association, for which I thank him; and without
going over all the names of many others who have served
to spread the cause and to establish the truth of Spiritualism
in this way, I will content myself by naming one other,
who speaks in his own proper person without the aid of
spirit guides—a born orator—one who I believe is destined to
do more for the spread of Spiritualism than most of us, by
reason of his practical intelligence and great facility of
conveying his arguments in language so clear that every
listener must carry away some portion of the truth he utters ;
you will no doubt anticipate me ere I mention his name—I
allude to Dr. George Sexton.
He has just assumed the editorship of the Christian Spirit¬
ualist, and whether you rank under his banner or not, you will
do well to read his journal once a month, or you will lose
something which, as Spiritualists, you ought to know; and
this remark applies to other journals published in London,
especially to the Spiritual Magazine which is most ably con¬
ducted by my friend Mr. Thos. Shorter, and which is now in
the fifteenth year of its existence; also to the Spiritualist, a
weekly paper having a scientific tendency and most creditably
edited by Mr. Wm. Harrison. This journal has had the exclu¬
sive privilege of giving to its readers accounts of the most re¬
markable phenomena which have been witnessed in this country.
Many, I am told, have held aloof from joining the Association
until they see what it is going to do. What it wishes to do
I have already placed before you. How much our Council
may be enabled to accomplish ere our second year has expired
64
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug, 7,1874.
will, in a great measure, depend upon the funds at its dis¬
posal. You are aware that the minimum subscription has
been placed at the low rate of five shillings per annum, so as
to include all classes; but when men who approve of the
objects to be attained can afford to make their subscriptions
pounds instead of shillings, I need not say that that would be
the most substantial way of furthering our ends.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, I close my remarks by
begging your leave to offer to Mr. Everitt, who, I understand,
has been a most diligent chairman, and to those members of
the Council who have piloted our Association to its present
position, our very best thanks, and also to our honorary
secretaries, and especially to that most intelligent lady, Miss
Emily Kislingbury, who both, I know, have had a most labo¬
rious task in placing the Association on its present honour¬
able footing, and, as I trust, placing it on the high road to
usefulness and complete success in the future.
Mr. John Lament, of Liverpool, who spoke on behalf of the
provincial Spiritualists present, said that they were very
pleased to meet their London fellow-workers on such an
auspicious occasion. In the course of his remarks he said
that during the past year more provincial Spiritualists of
literary and scientific ability had come publicly forward to aid
the movement; the training of the schools, however, was not
necessarily the best to enable a man to enter into Spiritualism ;
those whose minds were free, and who had plenty of sound
common-sense, took to it naturally.
Mr. T. Shorter proposed a vote of thanks to Mr. Coleman
for presiding; he said that few had done so much as Mr.
Coleman to publish the truth of Spiritualism, in years gone
by, without fear of public obloquy.
Dr. Sexton seconded the vote of thanks, saying he hoped
that Mr. Coleman would long live to honour every cause with
which he was connected.
Mr. Coleman, after returning thanks, said that he hoped
a successful career lay before the National Association.
Mr. Joy said he had received letters expressing sympathy
with the object of the meeting, and regret at inability to
attend, from Mrs. Tappan, Mr. J. Wason, Mr. Newton Cros-
land, Mr. J. Bowman, Mr. B. Fitton, Mr. Hinde, Mr. Charles
Blackburn, Mr. Ivimey, Mr. Martin B. Smith, Mrs. Tebb, Mr.
Dunphy, and Mrs. Boss-Church. The Countess of Caithness
and Dr. Speer had expressed regret verbally.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
Mr. Algernon Joy next read the following financial state¬
ment, dated August 4th, 1874:—119 members have contri¬
buted in annual subscriptions for 1874, and in donations,
£160 9s. 4d.; of which we have spent £101 3s. 2d.; leaving
a balance of income in hand of £59 6s. 2d.; seven life mem¬
bers have paid £28 17s. (which must be considered as capital),
making a total of actual cash in hand of £88 3s. 2d. ; about
70 members have not yet paid the subscriptions for 1874,
which may be estimated at about £20; estimated annual
income, as at present warranted, £181 18s. 4d.*
The present annual income of the Association might there¬
fore, said Mr. Joy, be thus summarised:—
£ s. d.
Annual subscriptions and donations received ... 160 9 4
Life subscriptions, £28 17s., at 5 per cent  19 0
Annual subscriptions and donations estimated ... 20 0 0
£181 18 4
Mr. Joy added, that if the annual income were to remain at
only £180 it would not enable the Association to do much.
NEW PHYSICAL MEDIUMS.
The President then introduced to the meeting Messrs.
Bastian and Taylor, two physical mediums who have just
arrived in London from America. He said that they had
taken apartments for seances at 36, Keppel-street, Bussell-
square.
Mr. Algernon Joy read a letter from Mr. S. S. Jones, editor
of the Religio-Philosophical Journal, Chicago, saying that
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor’s mediumship had given entire
satisfaction to the public in Chicago, that they were gentlemen
of strict integrity and high moral character, and that they had
been ordained as ministers of the Gospel.
* These expenses were, we believe, chiefly those incidental to organising,
a very great number of council meetings having been held during the past
year in rooms engaged for the purpose; clerk’s work, and printing were
probably heavy items in the expenses. It is to be hoped that a sufficient
number of new members will join soon, to enable the Association to do
mote public business now that its machinery is in good working order.
—Ed.'
Miss Malvina Claxton then favoured the company with an
excellent song.
Mr. J. J. Morse delivered a good address while in the trance
state.
Signor Conti then gave a song, and was accompanied on the
piano by Mr. Budall; the performance of both gentlemen was
of high quality.
Miss Ellen Cooper sang “ The Nightingale’s Trill,” and drew
forth loud and continuous applause at its conclusion.
Signor Conti and Mr. Budall again favoured the company
with music and singing, shortly after which the proceedings
closed.
THE CONFERENCE AT GOWER-STREET.
On Wednesday morning, at ten o’clock, the first Conference
meeting was held at Lawson’s Booms, Gower-street, London.
de. gully’s peesidential addeess.
Dr. Gully premised that as this was the first public meeting
of the National Association of Spiritualists, he had no pre¬
cedent for the duties of the office beyond the ordinary use of
maintaining order; but as he was not to speak afterwards, he
ventured to make a precedent by addressing a few words to
them. He observed that this attempt of theirs to unite for
the promulgation and elucidation of the subject of Spiritualism
had been objected to on the ground that it would lead to
sectarianism. Now, it would be found that the very essence
of a sect was the assertion of some dogma, some statement
not based on fact, but on the mere authority of some man or
sect of men. Every sect either starts with and stands by a
new dogma, or it takes some new view of an old dogma, or it
splits a dogma into two and swears by half of it, leaving the
other half to some other sect. But never is there any sect
which is founded on an irrefragable and mathematical truth;
one never heard of a sect whose tenet was that 2 and 2 made
4, though one has heard of a dogma on something like 2 and
2 making 5. Down to the time of Bacon, philosophy—even
natural science—was taught dogmatically, the authorities be¬
ing for the most part Greek speculators. But now-a-days there
are no sects in natural science, because there are no dogmas.
And sects ih religion are innumerable, because in that subject
authority is held to be all in all, and reasoning is not per¬
mitted save on a dogmatic basis. An instance of the oddities
on which sects are sometimes founded, is this : the Christian
worshippers named Plymouth Brethren had for many years
held together on the basis of the ordinary orthodox creeds,
laying especial stress on the Atonement, which they held to
be very sacrificial. About 25 years ago one of their leaders,
Mr. Durby, of Dublin, announced as a dogma that during the
space between Christ’s presentation in the temple and His
public teaching, i.e., between His twelfth and twenty-
ninth year of age, He could not have been God, because
He worked as a carpenter, and that He only took on His God¬
head when He began to teach publicly. This was speedily
and bitterly combated by Mr. Newton, another leader of the
Brethren in the West of England; and, behold 1 two sects
were formed out of one in a few months, and the Newtonites
and the Durbyites detest each other, as all people holding
moonshine opinions do. And this is the history of all sects:
some excitable and vanity-stricken person imagines he sees
what no one else can see, and announces it, with loud voice, as a
saving truth; and hence the Muggletonians,the Bradegonians,
the Sandemanians, and other melodious names. One of our
keenest modern humorists, who was a close 1 friend of his for
twentyyears—Douglas Jerrold—said wittily that “Dogmatism
was Puppyism grown old.” And so it was. Your dogmatic
man has all the vanity-stricken self-assertion of a dandy at
sixteen, and knows about as little of the higher attributes of
his race.
If the Association keeps clear of dogmatic intrusion, then
will there be no fear of its becoming sectarian. Already, how¬
ever, there is a signal of dogmatism among Spiritualists—
and already the dogmatisers’call themselves by another^ name.
But the Association has nothing to do with this. It knows
its function to be the investigation of facts, and of facts only;
and, as was said, no sect was ever yet framed on undoubted
facts. Now, what are the facts of Spiritualism up to this
date? They are reducible to two':—1st, the continued life
and individuality of the spirit body of man after it has quitted
his body of flesh; and, 2nd, its communion with spirits still
in the flesh, under certain conditions, by physical exhibition
and mental impression. Spirit identity cannot be regarded
yet as an established fact—at all events, not so as to warrant
Aucf. 7, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
65
us in building upon it. But for the other well-ascertained facts,
what a house of hope and encouragement may we not build_
upon them and live delightfully within! The knowledge, the
certainty, that our efforts for good are aided by the freed and
progressed beings of the spirit world in their sympathetic
communion with us, is as encouraging towards good as it is
deterrent from evil; since we are equally sure that the evil
denizens of that world sympathetically exasperate that evil
within us. But the power to desire spirit connection, and the
power of appreciating all its influence varies strongly in
individual spirits among us, and this is one of the points
which require much investigation. It is quite certain that
there are spirits in the body which have little or no curiosity
regarding their fate when they leave it, who, in fact, cannot
take in the idea of a life out of the body, yet who are almost
wholly blameless in conduct, and are not given to material
aims or pleasures. I have known several such spirits: notably,
that of a most distinguished politician and literary man, who,
although I brought him in contact with Mr. Home, and
enabled him to see and hear wondrous proofs of the reality of
the after-life, never could bring himself to the belief in it.
He was all that was gentle, kindly, sympathetic, cared
nothing for the sensual, sordid or frivolous pursuits of the
world, and had a vast and most judicial intellect; he
was, in fact, one of the greatest literary critics.of his day.
After he had seen much of Mr. Home, I asked him his thought
about the manifestations: “ Well,” he said, “I suppose there
may be a life after this for those who desire it, but I am quite
content with (this one, and should like to remain a thousand
years in it.” He was a man without passions of any kind,
and used to say, “Envy—anger—malice! Pooh, pooh! we
don’t know such things in good society—they are vulgar and
offensive.” What are we to make of so much absence of
materialism and such deficiency of spiritual appreciation in
the same individual ? And there is good reason to suppose
that, throughout the human family, the degrees of capacity for
spiritual appreciation are many; a probability which must
render us tender in our dealings with those who are slow to
recognise all the grand and felicitous applications of our two
facts. It may be that the organisation of the spiritual body
varies as much as the solid organisms of the flesh do, though
it has been a very ordinary belief that the variations of mental
phenomena are due to the organs of flesh in which the spirit
body resides—and this by persons altogether convinced of the
existence of this latter here and hereafter. This is only an
instance of one of the many ramifications of inquiry into
which this new science of Spiritualism is sure to spread,
and for which the methods of conynunion with the disem¬
bodied require to be so augmented in variety and accuracy.
And it seems to me that an association such as ours,
with varied minds at work for the same object, and
joined to announce the results, is more likely to discover
further and more precise modes of obtaining knowledge of
and from the spiritual world within us and without us, than
by the solitary awaiting of supposed inspiration which we are
recommended to look for by some Spiritualists. And if, as I
said, we carefully abstain from all dogmatism—nay, put it
down when it tries to raise its head—and build all we hope
to learn on facts and facts alone, be sure there is no fear of
our becoming Foxites, nor Homaites, nor Cookites, nor
Guppyites, nor anything else that is ite.
For the same reason that I would cultivate facts and not
dogmas, I would sternly keep down anything like leadership
of our movement. Such leadership may be assumed outside
as well as inside of our Association, be it remarked, and is
not more incidental to our position than to the other. But
among men who hold that one human spirit is intended for
immortal progress as much as another, any assumption of
dominion or superiority is altogether out of place. Bemember
that a man may be a priest without ritual. Even if a religion
is carved out of Spiritualism, the loftiest ends of religion as
regards the human spirit should be ever kept in view. When
God sends religion to the world, when He touches the tongue
of the pleader for piety and morals with a live coal from the
altar, as it were, and enables him to unfold the truths which
connect this world with the next, the visible with the in¬
visible, it is not that this man should be adulated now as a
preacher, or that man be canonised hereafter as a saint, but
it is that, viewing all the grandeur of the subject, and im¬
pressed with the benignancy of its aims, there should be, by
his devotion and that of his fellow-worshippers, an influence
drawn from the spiritual world to act upon the feelings and
affections of this world, that all thereby should be brought
nearer to all purity, charity, truthfulness, justice, and love,
that all should be made to strive to live in the blessed atmo¬
sphere of those attributes of Deity, and be eternally pro¬
gressing in them beneath the smile of our Almighty Parent,
Dr. Gully then called upon Mr. Harrison to read his paper.
Mr. G. B. Clark proposed that certain questions he had to
propose relating to the management of the Association be
then considered.
Dr. Gully said thaf the advertised business and the busi¬
ness on the programme should be gone through first.
Most of the members present expressed a desire that Mr.
Clark’s suggestions should take precedence.
Some questions were then raised as to the relative powers
of the Conference and the Council, some of the joints de¬
pending upon resolutions said to have been passed at Liver¬
pool, which had not been seen by the Council or received by
Mr. Everitt. Finally, the following resolutions were passed
successively:—
1. Besolved unanimously—“ That the proceedings of the
conference of 1873 be confirmed.”
2. Besolved—“ That the constitution and rules be adopted,
except the rules relating to general meetings, viz., Buies
9,10,11.”
3. “ That Buies 9,10,11, be referred to the Coilncil elected
by this Conference for reconsideration. That the decision of the
Council be in force until the annual general meeting in 1875.”
In the course of the discussion it became clear that most,
if not all of those present, objected to what is known as the
“ theological clause ” in the prospectus.
Mr. E. D. Bogers said that it was put in at the suggestion
of Christian Spiritualists, to please Christian Spiritualists, of
whom he was one, but it had offended many of them; he
himself wished to see it struck out, but thought they had no
right to do so without consulting the whole body of members
of the Association.
Mr. Clark thought that all the “ principles ” in the pro¬
spectus should be struck out, and all the ‘'purposes ” left in.
A principle might be a mere theory, about which people
might differ in opinion, but the purposes had a practical
bearing on the work of the Association.
Mr. Martheze, who had come from Brighton to consider the
question of founding schools, left the meeting when he found
other business substituted.
ME. HABEISON ON THE PliOMOTION OE NATIONAL
OBGANISATION.
Mr. William H. Harrison then read the following paper:—
The British National Association of Spiritualists has pro¬
gressed very satisfactorily since its formation, only a year ago,
at Liverpool. Much of the time since then has been spent in
forming a constitution and rules, and in attending to the
numerous details incidental to organising. More recently it
has begun to do useful work under good and economical
management, and the great majority of the more energetic
and influential Spiritualists in this country have enrolled
themselves among its members; some small difficulties have
beset its progress, but altogether its career up to this time
has been of such a nature as to inspire confidence. Great
results usually spring from small beginnings; for instance,
the first session of the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science, which was held at York, was a small one,
and the late Professor Phillips, Sir Boderick Murchison, and
other of its promoters, were in anxious doubt, a few hours
before the meeting, whether a sufficient number of people
would attend to encourage its founders to go through the
business on the programme ; but, year by year, as the use of
the new Association became manifest, it grew into the powerful
body which has done so much good to the world at large, and
which will meet a fortnight hence at Belfast.
Swedenborg, one of the greatest spiritual mediums of recent
times, says that the angels in heaven are happy in proportion
to their usefulness; the same law holds good with men upon
earth, and no doubt the rule applies as strongly to organised
bodies as it does to individuals. Hence, perhaps the best way
to promote national organisation, is to make the present
Association so useful in its action that Spiritualists cannot do
without it, and would as soon think of proposing its abolition
as the public would think of proposing the abolition of the
General Post Office, which owes its popularity and undoubted
permanence to the useful purposes it serves. An organisation
is an outward symbol of friendship and of union in any move¬
ment, as distinguished from dissension and ill-will; it means
that a large number of friends meet together to advance the
great principles on which they all agree, leaving out of con¬
sideration for the moment minor points of difference.
66
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 7, 1874.
To descend to practical details, 1 think that the National
Association of Spiritualists should as soon as possible take
premises, with a small hall for public meetings attached;
a large hall would be preferable, but that at present would
be altogether beyond our means. If offices only be taken,
the rent will be a -steady dead weight upon the resources
of the Association, which might not be the case if a dwell¬
ing house with hall attached were engaged, and for this
reason—the hall could be let for spiritualistic and other lec¬
tures ; a club or reading-room, with library, could be estab¬
lished, which might be wholly or partly self-supporting;
and a portion of the house might be set apart for the use of
the assistant secretary, and would be equivalent to so much
salary which the Association must otherwise pay in money.
When we have a library and reading-room established, I
think that the members of all those provincial societies which
have allied themselves with this organisation should have the
right of use of them, free of all charge, .during temporary
visits to London, but that residents in London and its suburbs
within a radius of twenty miles of Charing-cross should all
pay for the privilege, in order to make the step self-supporting.
If any balance of loss remains after all this, it is not likely to
be so large as the amount which would be required merely to
pay the rent of offices, but the advantages gained would be
infinitely greater.
The Association ©nee established in “ a local habitation and
a home,” which by the methods just stated have been made
self-supporting, should next try to carry on some steady good
work, calculated to raise the spiritual movement in the esti¬
mation of the public and of its own supporters, for the
critical remark is often made that Spiritualists as a body
should begin to do some good in the world. Educational
lectures might be established, in which all the laws of life
shall be taught to both old and young ; at present numberless
lives are rendered miserable by disease and ill-health, because
of the ignorance of individuals as to the sanitary and heredi¬
tary laws which govern their existence. These subjects are
not now taught in schools, where many unfortunate children
spend half their time benumbing their brains in trying to
learn the languages of dead and buried Pagans; these useful
matters also are not taught by other religious sects, because
they have too much to do in considering the lengths of the
tails of surplices, the method of carrying candles, and other
things of equal importance in time and eternity. Hence it is
for Spiritualists to take up the cry of “ a pure mind in a pure
body.” As Mr. Noyes says in one of his poems :—
“ We hold that what’s right for the body,
Can never be wrong for the soul.”
Popular lectures in connection with all new discoveries in
science might also be encouraged, so that those who join the
ranks of Spiritualism shall discover that religion, science, and
art are encouraged by Spiritualists to an extent unknown
among other religious bodies, that new discoveries. in the
realms of nature are received by us with thankfulness and not
with fear.
A more expensive and more serious step than the establish¬
ment of philosophical lectures, will be the founding of schools
and colleges. I have received the following interesting letter
from Mr. Martheze on the subject, with permission to read it
at this Conference :—
MR. MARTHEZK ON THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
20, Palmeira-square, Brighton, July 31st, 1874.
W. H. Harrison, Esq.
My dear Sir,—I take the liberty of writing you a short note about
founding a college or school for the children of Spiritualists. Having met
up to this day with very few sympathisers with my idea, pertaps a few
words about this question at the Conference might do some good, and draw
the attention of old and benevolent Spiritualists.
The number of Spiritualists is daily increasing, and the idea of a college
for their children has come into my mind for the following reasons:—
Colleges and schools are now generally under the supervision of clergy¬
men, if not under their entire control. I think that not a single Spiritualist
will contradict the fact that these gentlemen, with very few exceptions,
oppose Spiritualism as much now as in former times. Under these cir¬
cumstances any boy who might speak about spirits or manifestations to his
comrades would be sure to be severely reprimanded, and enjoined never to
say another word about them; nay, his sayings would be taxed as blas¬
phemous, and he would become the object of the most stupid persecution.
Another point is this:—The dogmas about the Devil, Hell, and the Besur-
rection of the Earthly Body, still being taught in ordinary schools, is it not
hard that Spiritualists should have their children brought up in the midst
of such false ideas ? I purposely name only these three leading changes
effected by Spiritualism in religious ideas, for these changes have even been
accepted by orthodox Christian Spiritualists, but many more changes have
been accepted by Spiritualists still more advauced.
Finally, I expect a great advantage from this fact:—In a school where
the children of Spiritualists are harmoniously educated on modern prin¬
ciples, and with our notions of the future life, it is nearly certain that
several would be developed as mediums, to the great benefit not only of
their parents but of society in general. As youth and purity are recog¬
nised as the best conditions for spiritual development, I need not insist
longer on this point.
If only twelve or fifteen subscribers will unite to subscribe £200 each,
yearly, for five or six years, a beginning on a small scale could be made at
once, and I shall be happy to put my name at the top of the subscription
list. A more elaborate prospectus of the various details connected with the
undertaking I leave to others more experienced than myself.—Yours faith¬
fully, J. N. Tiedeman Martheze.
The formation of a separate organisation for the purpose of
managing a college, would involve much time and work, also
expenses in the shape of clerks’ work, and perhaps hire of
offices, which might be saved by economising the machinery
already created by the National Association. Further, all the
meetings of the Council of the Association will hereafter be
open to the spiritualistic press, and the officers of the Associa¬
tion will be elected by vote by ballot. All this publicity will
give ample security for good management, and be a guarantee
against the misapplication of funds after the lapse of time,
which is one of the crying evils of small richly-endowed bodies.
As further security for good management, the National Asso¬
ciation ought to have no power to transact any business what¬
ever, of which due notice has not been given beforehand to the
whole body of Spiritualists by public advertisement. For all
the reasons just stated it is better that existing machinery
should be utilised in founding schools and colleges, rather than
that a smaller organisation should be created not under public
supervision.
There has been just sufficient opposition of a puny
kind to national organisation, to make more pleasant
the efforts of friendly people to bind themselves together;
without that opposition the atmosphere would have been
too stagnant. Once upon a time the contractors fixed some
bradawls, points outermost, upon the telegraph posts on
the Pacific Railway, to prevent the buffaloes from rubbing
against them and thereby breaking them down; but the
bradawls gave a delightful tickling sensation to the skins of
the buffaloes, so the intelligent animals afterwards rubbed
against the posts more perseveringly than ever, and revelled
in the Elysian sensations they experienced. In like manner
has there been just sufficient opposition from Spiritualists
who cannot work in a friendly way with their neighbours, to
make the work of organising more delightful than it was
before.
This great movement of modern Spiritualism has now been
sweeping over the earth for twenty-six years; its influence is
felt in every part of the civilised globe, and it has nearly a
hundred periodicals devoted to its service. Its mission is to
give to this materialistic age palpable proof of the reality of
a life beyond the grave, bringing also hope to the mourner and
joy to the afflicted. It has its dark as’well as its bright side,
and scientific research alone can teach us how to shun its
dangers and to utilise that portion of it which is good.
Since its advent it has found its way alike to palace and
cottage, its teachings are welcomed by many in our
great cities, its influence is felt among the dwellers upon
the mountain sides, as well as in the dark caverns in which
the toiling miner pursues his daily labours. In furthering
the interests of a great movement like this, by uniting to
work for the common good, by deprecating dissension and
disunion, by establishing a free platform on which none is
greater or ffiss than another, and by forming a constitution
under which all important business is submitted to vote by
ballot, this Association introduces a purer atmosphere of free¬
dom into our midst, and meets a want which has long been
felt in connection with Spiritualism in England. This want
has been more especially felt in London, where hitherto we
have had no representative body, but only three or four small
and widely-scattered local societies, which had made no
attempt whatever to enter into alliance with each other for
the general good. The moral example set by the present
attempt at national union is in itself admirable; it is an
example set even by the fowls of the air, for does not the
good old hymn say ?—
“ Birds in their little nests agree,”
which is true as a general principle, unless a young cuckoo is
surreptitiously developed in the nest, and begins to swallow
all the worms, grubs, beetles, and other choice luxuries, and
to gorge itself at the expense of all its feathered brethren.
So in a movement like ours, unless we have a representative
body to look after the public interests, abuses will surely
spring up which Spiritualists disunited will have no power to
check. The present organisation can neutralise that which is
evil, and encourage that which is good ; further, if it makes
itself very useful and avoids running into debt, it stands upon
a permanent foundation.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
67
Aug. 7, 1874.
THE PROSPECTUS OE THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Edward T. Bennett then read the following paper,
which was entitled “ A few words on the Declaration of
Principles and Purposes,” issued by the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The “ Declaration of Principles and Purposes ” which was
issued by the British National Association of Spiritualists a
few months ago has been the subject of much criticism. A
few words in reference to it from one who took part in its
preparation, and in regard to the general constitution and
objects of the Association, may possibly not be out of place at
the present Conference.
No one who was not present at the preliminary meetings
when the “ Buies and Constitution,” and the “ Declaration of
Principles and Purposes ” were under discussion, can have any
idea of the amount of labour bestowed upon them, of the
patience that was exercised that the views of all might be
fairly considered, and that the conclusions arrived at should
embody those which prevailed.
It was the desire of those who initiated the idea of a
National Association, that the united aid and support of all
leading Spiritualists should be obtained, and a large number
of invitations were issued to ladies and gentlemen well known
in connection with the movement. Some accepted. Some
declined. Spiritualists of the most diverse views were invited
and urged to co-operate. It is clearly therefore hardly in good
taste in any of those who declined to find fault with the
Association as being composed of narrow minded, uninfluential,
or juvenile members.
Then as to the fundamental principles of the constitution:—
A minimum five shilling annual contribution entitles to
membership. Every member, man or woman, has equal
rights, and powers of voting, and is eligible for every office.
The basis is therefore the broadest possible. The council and
all officers of the Association will be elected in future years by
a majority vote of the members, so that it will be the fault of
the members themselves, if the governing body does not fairly
represent the Association at large.
It is the primary and fundamental object of the Association
to form a bond of union between all Spiritualists of every shade
of opinion. To do this it is necessary to start on a basis
which shall underlie the differences which exist between
different minds. A sentiment of J. Enmore Jones’s in a letter
to the Medium of July 17th exactly expresses the} spirit which
animated those who formed the Association :—“ Let us be
Spiritualists,—our creed human immortality—leaving our
special, sectional, church and non-church beliefs and
antagonisms.” Mr. Jones says again :—“ Let us have a band
of veteran Spiritualists, publicly known in England, of all
creeds; ” and he then mentions fourteen or fifteen names of
such. That is exactly what the Association wanted to do, and
has tried to accomplish. Nearly every one of those whose
names are mentioned by Mr. Jones was solicited to join in
drawing up a Declaration of Principles and Purposes, on that
broad basis, which is the basis of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists.
But sometimes words will unfortunately convey a meaning
different from that which their author intended. So it has
been with this manifesto. One or two sentences seem to have
had an effect precisely opposite to that for which they were
introduced. This can easily be rectified, for it is of course
open to . the Association to amend that which it has issued, if
it should think proper to do so, and it will welcome the assist¬
ance of all earnest Spiritualists. Let every one, however,
clearly understand that there is no foundation for the accu¬
sations of “ domination over institutions and intuitions,”
still less for insinuations of private or pecuniary ambition on
the part of any of those who have worked, and worked hard,
in the formation of this 'Association. The Association will
devote itself to the work which it has undertaken, and quietly
live down all this kind of opposition.
Our great opponent has been William Howitt, and even he
has entirely conceded the principle of the whole matter in his
letter in the July number of the Christian Spiritualist when he
admits the value of local union for mutual sympathy and aid.
Oars is nothing more than a local union of British Spiritualists
for mutual sympathy and aid. It is illogical to argue that a
union of Liverpool or Birmingham or Marylebone Spiritualists
is free from objection, while a union of British Spiritualists is
necessarily) comparable to the Church of Borne, and will
necessarily lead to the same spiritual tyranny. Are we not
every one of us in our different 'spheres, William Howitt in¬
cluded, the recipients of benefits derived from national asso¬
ciation and organization for mutual sympathy and aid ?
We then address ourselves to our brother and sister
Spiritualists, and invite your co-operation and assistance in
the grand work we have undertaken, the nature of which is
expressed in these few words of the second article of our
constitution,—“To further the interests of Spiritualism.”
With this object in view, we welcome to our ranks Spiritualists
of all theological and scientific beliefs, and of all shades of
opinion in literary, political, or social matters. Differences on
these points will not be allowed to interfere with the unity of
purpose among our members. We believe that the great need
of the age is a recognition of the truth of Spiritualism, and
a practical ^acceptance of its teachings. We therefore claim
for our work a high religious character, and an intimate rela¬
tionship to the best interests of mankind.
We feel that we can with confidence appeal to Spiritualists
generally to unite their influence with ours, and to join the
Association, believing that by so doing-they will advance the
objects we all have in view.
HR. JOHN CHAPMAN ON NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Mr. John Chapman, of Liverpool, rose and said—When Mr.
Harrison and I read our papers on organisation at the Liver¬
pool Conference a year ago, we advocated its formation for
purely business purposes only, and guarded against all theolo¬
gical or political tendencies. We advocated a plan of action
entirely free from creeds and dogmas of any kind whatever;
we wished a platform to be constructed broad in its founda¬
tion and universal in its structure. This, I am glad to see,
has been carried out to its fullest extent. Ladies and gentle¬
men of all opinions have come forward to participate in the
privileges the Association holds out. Taking our stand upon
so broad an edifice, it naturally occurs to us now, how shall
we proceed with such a diversity of thought and opinions
amongst us ? See we not difficulties in the way from the very
fact that we are not all of one mind ? Look at the Churches
in former days, and how they have been torn to pieces by
eruption after eruption splitting up their fair fabrics. A
desert has been created on every hand. At the same time
they have been preaching one faith, and one baptism, and
one spirit. Now, I allege that the very fact of this preaching
has been the sole cause of every desertion in the churches,
because such preaching is against God’s laws in the constitu¬
tion of man’s nature. We have no more right to expect
every man to believe alike, or to act alike, than we have to
believe that all men should be made of one stature or of one
colour. This is a fact in nature, and to set up theories con¬
trary to facts, is building upon the sand. The mind of man
has been so long trained in the theories above mentioned, that
it is difficult to rise out of them; nevertheless, if we act
according to the facts set before us we cannot go wrong.
Spiritualists, above all others, draw their conclusions from
facts; let these be our guide, and whatever theories or opi¬
nions we may each possess, let us say to each other, “ Cherish
them till you get something better, but let us stick to facts.”
Now, it is a fact that this organisation has been established,
and that, too, upon the widest basis; we must now, there¬
fore, look out for other facts to guide us in the future.
What are the facts that stand before us ? One is that
Spiritualism is spreading rapidly in most parts of the country,
and thousands are going to it for information; hundreds are
satisfied with its teachings and are eagerly desiring more of
that light that cometh down from the angels above. This
organisation can aid in spreading its truths, by the employ¬
ment of mediums and lecturers all over the land, by aiding in
establishing lyceums and lecturing halls wherever it is expe¬
dient to do so, by helping to raise funds, and by giving the
best counsel in all matters concerning the work. It can unite
with local societies in giving the best advice, and, if required,
aid—as far as it is in its power — to weak and struggling
societies in their efforts to rise. Let the body be so organised
that it can have property invested in it, and be a safeguard
to all invested interests. It can regulate individual effort and
aid persons, as well as societies, by helping the labourer into
his place and giving him work to do. Friends, whatever may
be said against our union, if we all do our duty in love and
charity, waiting for a greater outpouring of God’s good spirit,
we shall reap the reward of our labours both in this and the
future life. (Applause.)
After a few words from other speakers, the meeting
adjourned for two hours.
On reassembling at two o’clock, the proceedings began
under the presidency of Dr. Sexton. It was a harmonious
meeting, and the interesting discussion which followed the
reading of Mr, Cooper’s paper, we hope to publish next week.
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 7, 1874,
ME. E. COOPEE ON PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Mb. R. Coopeb then read the following paper on the Physical
Phenomena of Spiritualism :—
In my experience of Spiritualism, extending over eleven
years, I have witnessed, I believe, every phase of the
phenomena. In my observation of them, one thing that has
always struck me has been the progressive character of the
manifestations. Commencing with the simple rap or tilt, they
have been elaborated into the vast variety of forms now
witnessed, appealing to every sense, and adapted to every class
of mind. It would seem that they follow the order of nature
which, in the words of the Christian Scriptures, is “first the
blade, then the ear, then the full corn in the ear.” This pro¬
gressive character of the manifestations is very obvious. To
what extent they will be carried it is impossible to say, but
that there will be greater displays of spirit power, more
wonderful than anything that has yet been witnessed,
is a strong probability. My own opinion is that
the manifestations will be continued, increasing in
variety and power, until the fact of spirit existence
is accepted as a fact by the world’s inhabitants; then
(there being no further need of them), they will cease,
and thus another wave of spirit-influx will have passed over,
the results of which will be seen in the expanding evolu¬
tions of the future. In the course of twenty-six years we
have arrived at the wonderful phase of spirit power known as
materialisation, and one would think that this, the reincar¬
nation of the human spirit would be the culmination of these
manifestations ; and so it probably will; but then the ques¬
tion arises—To what extent may the phase of materialisation
be carried ? Years ago the spirits stated their intention, at
some future time, to speak in public in a materialised form.
At the time this prediction was made it was regarded with
incredulity, but it seems to be not at all improbable that it
will soon become a realised fact. Indeed, it would appear that
we are on the eve of such kind of manifestation. Already we have
spirits occupying the platform through our trance mediums, and
edifying thousands with their words of wisdom, and en¬
trancing them with their cogent eloquence. Already we have
spirits speaking by direct voice, and in some cases giving
lengthy addresses. / This has even been done in public.
Putting these two facts together, where is the improbability
of spirits assuming a materialised form, and giving public
addresses in propria persowa.? Some have even thought that
the appearance of spirits in an embodied form will some day
be so common as to excite no wonder; that the inter-com¬
munion of the two worlds will be of such a reciprocal cha¬
racter that it will be an ordinary occurrence for people living
in this world to enter the spirit world, whilst it will be equally
common for the denizens of the spirit world to rehabilitate
themselves in a materialised human form, and walk the earth
like its own inhabitants. But time alone can prove the
truth of these speculations.
There is one thing in connection with these manifes¬
tations that has frequently occurred to me, and is still
a matter of perplexity, and it is to this that my article
more particularly refers. It is this,—whether the necessity of
conditions is real or assumed. , In making these remarks I do
not wish it to be supposed that I consider these manifestations
to be performed independently of conditions : to do so would be
returning to the old-fashioned and well-nigh obsolete idea
which regarded them as supernatural. I do not believe them
to take place on the “ let there be light ” principle—to be done
as it were by the direct fiat of the Almighty, or of any sub¬
ordinate spiritual being. But the question in my mind is
whether the difficulty regarding conditions is not more appa¬
rent than real; whether in fact the power producing the results
cannot control the conditions. What causes me to think this
may possibly be the case is that the phenomena sometimes
take place independently of the conditions usually supposed
to be necessary for their elicitation. For instance, darkness is a
condition that is supposed to favour the exhibition of
the physical phenomena. Yet it is a known fact that
the results that usually take place in darkness occasionally
take place in the light. Thus I have witnessed in the
presence of the Davenports many manifestations of force in
the light—in daylight, in fact. In their presence I have also
heard voices speak in the light. On a few occasions, whilst
walking with the Davenports and Mr. Fay in the street,
I have heard the well-known voice of Kate joining in the con¬
versation. It was bright moonlight at the time, and once it
was daylight. Again, in the presence of Mr. Herne, I have
seen phenomena that usually take place in the dark occur in
the light. Thus I have seen a chair placed on the arm of a
person whose hand was held by the medium. This occurred in
tolerably strong gaslight. I have also seen in Mr. Herne’s
presence a piano pulled forward from its positioii against the
wall, in daylight. The first of these two cases, which involves
the passage of matter through matter, is the only instance
I have witnessed of this phenomenon occurring in the light—
indeed, it is the only case I ever heard of. Now these facts go
to prove that darkness is not an indispensable condition for
the evolution of physical phenomena. How far darkness may
facilitate their production is another question. Then, again,
these manifestations taking place, as they do, through the
organism of certain persons, it is supposed they can only take
place in the immediate vicinity of them—at any rate not
beyond a prescribed distance; and the insulation of the
medium was at one time considered an essential condition. I
have, however, seen facts which go to prove that neither of
these conditions are necessary. To illustrate what I mean, I will
describe a seance that took place some years ago, at the
time the Davenports were in this country. One evening
I accompanied the Davenports to Mr. Guppy’s residence in
Great Marlborough-street. After supper Ira, the eldest of the
brothers, Mr. Guppy, and myself, adjourned to a dark room
whicbfMr. Guppy had had prepared for experimental purposes.
To get to this room we had to pass through a room that
served the combined purposes of a sculptor’s studio and a
billiard room. Emerging from this room we came into a
yard, in one corner of which the dark cabinet in question
was constructed. Taking our seats, we extinguished Nthe
light. Mr. Guppy was at the time smoking a cigar. This
was at once taken from his hand, and carried in the air, where
it could be seen by the light given out by its combustion. Some
whiskey-and-water was standing on the table. This was handed
to us to drink. When it came to my turn I found there was
but little left in the glass. This I pointed out. The glass
was forthwith taken from my mouth, and replenished and
brought back again. John,” the spirit, then commenced
speaking. Hearing noises in the billiard room, we asked
what was going on there. The reply of the spirit was, “ You
will see presently.” After sitting some little time longer,
enjoying the conversation of the spirits, which was generally
of a witty and amusing character, we lit the candle and pro¬
ceeded $0 the billiard room. As soon as we arrived there
we saw at once what had been going on. Whilst we were
talking, a bottle which had been left in the dark room was
brought and thrown at our feet. We found our hats placed
on the end of the billiard cues, which were stuck in the pockets
of the #able. Other objects were also removed from their posi¬
tion, the most striking of which was a heavy folding step-ladder,
which we found lying against the door—a double one—leading
from the house, and which opened on the inside, thus proving
that the ladder must have been placed in that position by some
person or [power inside the room, and as we were the only
persons on that side of the door, the proof was obvious that
it was the work of spirits. In this case the medium was not
insulated, but sat close to Mr. Guppy and myself. Neither
did the manifestation take place in proximity to him, but in a
room that was separated from the chamber in which we sat
by a small yard.
The conclusion, therefore, at which I arrive, based upon
long observation of the matter, is that the manifestations are
not given to the extent of the capability of the spirit world,
but in such a manner and under such circumstances as to
lead to a gradual recognition and acceptance of them by man¬
kind. This fact must be evident even to ordinary observers.
The conditions under which manifestations now take place
are much more satisfactory and conclusive than they were in
former days. The manifestations through Mrs. Fay, for
example, are much more likely to induce conviction than were
those of the Davenports. The rope-tying always afforded a
loophole for doubt which the calico bandages do not admit of.
It appears clear, therefore, that there is a purpose in the
manifestations being given in such a manner as to leave room
for doubt and suspicion. That it is possible for spirits to
manifest their presence and power in such a manner as to
silence the veriest sceptic I quite believe. In fact it would
seem, in the progressive nature of things, that the day is not
far distant when the spiritual phenomena will take place
under such unequivocal circumstances that he who runs may
read, and conviction will be brought home to the mind of the
most obdurate unbeliever. (Applause.)
Mr. Joy said that an understanding prevailed among some
of those present in the morning that instructions had been
issued to the Council in reference to the “ Principles and
Aug. 7, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
69
Purposes,” whereas no resolution had been passed on the
subject.
A resolution on the subject was then put to the meeting,
the following amendment to which was eventually carried by
a large majority:—“That the principles and purposes be
referred back to the Council for reconsideration.”
A continuation of this report will be published next week.
MATERIALISED SPIRIT EORMS IN AMERICA.
The following account of a materialisation seance, written
by Col. W. H. Farrar, was published in the Banner of Light
(Boston, U. S.), on the 30th May last. It will be noticed
that, like Miss Showers, the medium is made to sing in four
voices while under influence, and curiously enough, “Peter”
has often declared that he had another medium in America.
Assuming the sentences in the following narrative about
recognisable forms, and the room being filled with them, to be
exaggerations, the rest of the account reads much like a seance
with Miss Showers :—
By invitation of Dr. King, of 465 Sixth Avenue, I was pre¬
sent on the evening of Friday, the 15th of May, at his resi¬
dence, to witness a private seance or sitting given by Mrs.
Wilson. The phenomena I there witnessed will remain for
ever indelibly impressed on my memory. Among the fifty or
so present, I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. James Boot, of
Paterson, New Jersey, Mr. George Watson and wife, James C.
Wilkins, Dr. Edward L. Benson and daughter, Thomas C.
Gibson and wife, of Williamsburg, Dr. D. B. Palmer and
wife, of Kalamazoo, Michigan, and Col. Samuel Sloan and
wife, of New York. To thoroughly test the powers of this
medium, and to remove, if possible, the scepticism which
possessed me, I determined, in connection with other sceptics,
of whom there were a number present, to give this exhibition
a most searching investigation.
After passing an hour in the most gratifying social inter¬
course, I was requested to act in conjunction with Dr. Palmer
and Col. Sloan as a committee to take charge of Mrs. Wilson,
the medium. The rooms in which we were situated consisted
of a large parlour, with folding doors, opening into a small
alcove; the folding doors were partially closed. After search¬
ing the alcove and finding nothing in the way of closets, win¬
dows or obstructions of any kind (in fact, the room was totally
bare, with the exception of a carpet and two oil paintings on
the wall), the committee conducted the medium into the
alcove, where, after placing seven thicknesses of adhesive
plaster over her mouth, seating her in a chair in the middle of
the alcove, and tying her hands behind her as tight as human
ingenuity could devise, and from which it would seem simply
impossible for her to extricate herself, unless aided by a
superior power, we left her, and with the rest of the audience
formed a circle with hands joined outside the folding doors,
which were open sufficiently for all to see everything which
took place, and the lights in the room enabling us to see every
movement of the medium.
At the request of “ Uncle Ben,” the controlling spirit, given
in clear and loud voice from the alcove, the audience com¬
menced singing some fine vocal music, which was kept up by
the ladies, many of whom were good vocalists. All at once
and without a moment’s notice, four different voices were
plainly heard from the alcove singing, “The Last Bose of
Summer,” “ Old Dog Tray,” “ Home, Sweet Home,” and
“ Auld Lang Syne.” Being informed that I was at liberty to
ask the spirit any questions I liked, I did so, and the answers
were so marvellously true that I was astonished. A lady pre¬
sent asked if the face and form of a dear departed friend
could be shown, when at once there appeared a form passing
around in our midst, with a full figure and large beard! Other
relatives and friends being asked for by different members of
the audience, the parlour soon became filled with faces and
forms gliding around us, one of which actually kissed Mr.
Wilkins; and in turn we were each of us tapped on the head,
some in a delicately light manner, and others in a strong and
decisive way.
The committee of sceptics then went into the alcove, and,
having assumed themselves that Mrs. Wilson was tied the same
as at the first, retired, when “Uncle Ben” was asked if he
would untie the medium, and he at once answered “ Yes,” in
a clear, distinct voice. Then, quick as thought, off flew the
ropes from the medium into our midst, all of which was
plainly seen by the audience. The committee then went into
the alcove, and there sat the medium in a trance condition,
with her arms by her side, untied. At the request of “ Uncle
Ben,” the rope was thrown back into the alcove. In less than
two minutes the spirit of “ Tecumseh,” the Indian chief, ap¬
peared distinctly visible to all, and in a commanding voice,
said, “ The medium is tied,” then vanished. We walked into
alcove, and there sat Mrs. Wilson, tied in the same manner
and with the same rope as we had at first tied her. Several
of the audience then conversed with the spirit, “ Uncle Ben,”
regarding their missions on earth, and the answers were so
palpably true that the veriest sceptic could not doubt that the
medium was completely under the control of a superhuman
power. I asked, “Will the spirits untie the medium and
remove her to our circle ?” The request was complied with at
once, and when we beheld the medium seated in her chair,
untied, with the plasters still over her mouth, moving into our
circle, the evidence was conclusive, and F confessed to a
thorough belief in Spiritualism.
In about two minutes the medium, who was in a trance con¬
dition, came to consciousness.
THE MOHAMMEDAN PARADISE.
When a Moor dies he is examined in theology by two angels,
called Munkir and Nakir, in the grave, and if it appears that
he is an orthodox Moslem, all is well; if not, he is beaten with
iron clubs on his temples, and bitten by venomous beasts.
The souls of martyrs repose in the necks of green birds in
Paradise till the Judgment Day; while the other souls of
believers, being tenderly extricated from their bodies by
Gabriel, hover around their graves. The souls of the damned
have no place either in heaven or in earth. The Judgment
Day will be heralded by signs. Jesus Christ will again appear
upon the earth, trumpets will sound, the sun will be obscured,
the stars will fall upon the earth and chaos will prevail. At the
second blast of the trumpet everything having life will perish
from the earth. It will then rain for forty years, after which
the last trumpet will sound and the dead will arise. Their
deeds will then be weighed by the angels Gabriel and Munkir,
in scales so large that heaven and earth will scarcely be able
to contain them. A Moslem who has done evil to another
must pay him in good deeds, and if he has no good deeds,
must take some of the sins which the other has committed.
Although from several passages in the Koran it would appear
that damnation is eternal; yet others believe that for the
orthodox sinners a temporary punishment is appointed, and
that their skins will be roasted as black as a coal for 1,000 years.
At the resurrection the righteous will be clad in white linen; the
wicked without any clothes. Those who have amassed wealth dis¬
honestly will appear as swine, and those who have taken in¬
terest, with their heads where their feet ought to be, and vice
versa. The Day of Judgment will last 1,000 years save thirty,
or, according to another text (save seventy), 50,000 years.
God Himself will sit in the judgment seat. Adam, Noah,
Abraham, and Jesus will act as intercessors for the souls of
men. Angels, genii, and animals will also be called to ac¬
count. The ordeal of judgment is the bridge of Sirat, fine as
a hair and sharp as a sword. The righteous pass over swift
as lightning ? the wicked fall into the pit below. A wall
divides paradise from hell, and it is a kind of neutral ground,
serving as a residence for those who have done much good and
much evil, or else who have done little good and little evil.
Paradise itself abounds with purling streams of milk and
honey, with black-eyed houris formed of musk, with wine
which does not inebriate, and with slaves of which true be¬
lievers will have 80,000 apiece. The Moors have a special
doctrine of their own that they will be also regaled with a
kind of haschish which will never do them any harm, and
that instead of black-eyed houris they will be blessed with the
companionship of blue-eyed golden-haired English girls, whom
the Moors esteem the most beautiful of women. Hell has
seven stories; on the uppermost are those orthodox but sinful
Mohammedans who, at the intercession of the Prophet, will be
released after a thousand years; the next underneath is for
the Christians; those which follow, for the Sabians, the Magi,
and for Pagans in general. Last of all is the dwelling of the
hypocrites; that is, those who have professed Islam without
really believing in its doctrines. The angels have forms that
are beautiful and pure; they neither eat nor drink, are sexless,
and act as the servants of God. Thus begins the 35th sura of
the 'Koran:—“ Praise be to God, the Creator of heaven and
earth, who has made the angels for his messengers, and has
TO
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 7, 1874.
given them two, three, and four pair of wings.” Chief among
them is Gabriel, sometimes called the “ Spirit of Godthen
Michael, the angel of the sacrifice; Azariel, the angel of
death ; Israful, the angel of the resurrection. The Moslems
also believe in demons or spirits, Djenum (plural of Djin),
who are made of a gross substance, and will be judged on the
last day.—“ Adventures in Morocco, Da. Rohlfs.
OTorrespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE INFLUENCE OE THE MINDS OE MEDIUMS UPON
COMMUNICATIONS.
Sib,—I am a believer in the phenomena called Spiritual,
having had in my own person abundant proof of the possi¬
bility of holding converse with those who have gone before,
and I have taken great: interest in the ‘‘Spirit Teachings”
published now and then in the Spiritualist, also in the teaching
by “ Anonymous Critics ” in the same paper. I thought
that I had at last found the truth, for my mind before this
had not been able to fully grasp the dogmatic teaching of
Christianity in our established Church, but I accepted what I
could not understand in faith,—but here was fact superseding
faith.
I have just now, however, read a little book called Glimpses
of a Brighter Land, which also professes to be spirit teach¬
ing, and I find in it all the old theology endorsed ; the Cross
and the Divinity of Christ permeates the whole work, and it
teaches not only the atonement and mediatorship of Christ,
but in pages 141, 142, speaks of a “purgatory,” and “that
if they sin again, they are lost for ever.” What is this but
the “ everlasting damnation ” spoken of in the Gospels ?
The “ teachings ” in the Spiritualist are the reverse of all
this. Perhaps you would kindly publish this letter, so that
I might get a reply from some Spiritualist of more experience
than I, and who would tell me which is right, or offer some
explanation. An Enquiber after Truth.
' [The next world is a large and busy one, and the spirits hold all kinds of
different opinions, and are wise and foolish, ednoated or uneducated, as are
men on earth. Their messages are coloured more or less in passing through
the mental and physical organism of the medium. Here, then, are great
sources of difficulty in the way of getting reliable information about the
next life, and it will take years of research to unravel and remove the
various sources of error. Many of these (points have been considered in
detail, in articles and letters, in back numbers of The Spiritualist.—Ed.]
MATERIALISED SPIRIT FORMS.
Sir,—The late controversy about the perplexing similarity
Of certain materialised spirits to the mediums, offers much
food for reflection, and in some points cannot fail to draw a
smile from those who followed the modus operandi employed
to ascertain the real state of the facts. When the ghost ap¬
pears, one critical investigator steps forward with a pair of
compasses to takejthe measure of nose, mouth, or big toe ; the
other is ready with tapes, tailor fashion, to secure the length
of arm or leg; and, if we stretch our imagination a little
further, we might hear of a plaster of Paris cast being quickly
executed of the unfortunate ghost; further, if it would be
kind enough to “melt away” after the setting of the cast,
there would be nothing left to desire. For the present, how¬
ever, it might be a relief to students of materialisation, to
turn attention to the numerous well-authenticated instances
where forms and faces were totally different from the medium,
and, moreover, where two faces appeared at the same time, and
last, but not least, recognised faces. In my own experience in
these manifestations (which amounts to scores of seances) I
never met with a single instance of the remotest resemblance
of face to that of the medium, except in one case, where another
medium tried, for the first time I believe, to sit for forms.
With regard to recognised faces, I had no direct evidence
myself, but one proof, which may be worth recording. A
gentleman, who sat beside me when the face of an elderly
lady appeared, seemed deeply impressed, and requested me to
take note of the features. The same evening I went home
with him, where he pointed out to me a portrait on the wall;
it represented a near relation which indeed was like the appa¬
rition. The medium (Madame Louise) had never been in the
house before. I would have dismissed even this test as a
remarkable coincidence, but for the letter of Mr. Chinnery,
testifying to similar results with this gifted medium. So
we have on the one hand manifestations creating suspicion,
and on the other those which more than counter¬
balance the former. Much information as to the theory of
materialisation may be received, I venture to guess, when the
differences between forms resembling the medium, and those
which do not, are closely studied. When I compare the
descriptions of these forms in general (including my own per¬
sonal observations) with those of Miss Cook’s seances, for in¬
stance, I feel inclined to believe that all forms and faces
which are quite different from the medium, are more or less
indistinct and cloudy, unsteady and of short duration; and
although positive enough not to be mistaken, not sufficiently
real to stand severe examination. Whereas, the spirit Katie
seemed to pass so completely into the plane of reality, as to
stand the astounding experiment of direct photographing in
strong light. The closer approach to reality seems therefore
connected with partaking of the outer form of the medium,
as the central source of force, just as the focus is the collecting
of all rays in one point. The asserted fact, that sometimes
the development of mediums for forms begins with showing
the face of the medium, would not overturn this theory, since
it would only demonstrate a reversed order of sequence. The
perplexing problem which has lately troubled so many earnest
inquirers, seems to receive a wider field every day, if the
wonderful accounts from other quarters prove true, and so we
may hope to arrive soon a little nearer to the truth.
Altona, July 30,1874. Christian Reimers.
[So far as we have seen, it is in absence of life and not in indistinctness,
that undeveloped recognisable faces differ from the Katie, Florence, and
John King manifestations.—Ed.]
A FOLKESTONE CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—As intimated in my letter published in The Spiritualist
of 24th ult., my own opinions respecting Spiritualism a good
deal resemble those of Serjeant Cox.
Of the alleged phenomena, however, I have seen but little,
as attempts made to show them to me, on various occasions
several years ago, were for the most part very unsuccessful.
With your permission, I should like to take this opportunity
of supplementing my former letter by mentioning that if any
Spiritualist who can produce fair test “ manifestations ”
should be visiting this season the sea-side town in which I
reside, and should be disposed to show them to me, I should
gladly and (I trust) in a candid spirit avail myself of his
courtesy. Charles J. Taylor.
Trinity Vicarage, Folkestone,
1st August, 1874.
A DIVINING ROD SEANCE.
Sir,—With your kind permission, I purpose sending you a
few farther accounts of rod seances, hoping some of our
London friends will be able to offer some opinions thereon
through your columns. A friend has handed me an account
of one on Sunday evening, May 10th, 1874. Only three
persons, I believe, were present. The first word spelt out was
(as usual) “Sing.” “Hand in hand with Angels ” having
been sung, Psalm 19th was read. This done, then the follow¬
ing beautiful prayer was spelt out:—
“ Thou Supreme and Everlasting Being, the source of light
and love, we come upto Thee knowing that Thou art love, and
doth show Thy love to us every day and every hour, and even'
every second of our existence. Even the very air we breathe is
composed of Thy love, for without it we could not live. It is
Thy love which brings forth the grass and grain for our sus¬
tenance, and the flowers to delight us with their fragrance
and beauty. It is Thy love which has covered our plains and
valleys with the thousand herds of sheep and cattle for our
food. We praise Thee! we worship Thee! we glorify Thee,
and only desire Thee! Give us Thy love to enable us to come
nearer and nearer to Thee, that Thy love may always be near
to us to guide us in the road that will please Thee ; for Thy
love is infinite, therefore without bound, and therefore do Thou
give it to us to help us in all temptations, and keep us stead¬
fast in our determination only to please Thee. Be with us
always, and so encircle us with Thy arms of love. Teach us
to love each other, and to work for and assist each other, for
by so doing we are aspiring to Thy good spirit, and by so doing
we are pleasing and serving Thee. Do thou therefore help us
in our endeavours. Amen.”
Question. Can you give us a few words of instruction on
the subject of the prayer ?
Ans. Yes. Study and think more about the love God has
shown you. Think of His infinite mercy in allowing you to
live on earth so long a time to prepare for this life. Oh ! are
you availing yourselves of the many privileges you have?
Aug. 7, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
71
Think that at any moment the Almighty could destroy you
all—in one moment; yet He is giving you time and using
His influence in preparing you for this world. Oh! do not
resist, but be led and guided by Him.
Quest. How ?
Ans. By faith and love.
Quest. Which creed is right ?
Ans. Follow any you believe right; the Almighty will accept
your motive. I have told you before, we meet with spirits
here from every church on earth, and those who have acted
up to their faith are happy.
Quest. Unitarians, Swedenborgians, and others?
Ans. If they act up to the light they have.
Quest. Mohammedans ? Buddhists ?
Ans. Yes ; the same. All.
Quest. And Africans, heathen and cannibals as we call them ?
Ans. The same. Good men and women amongst them all.
Quest. How can we learn to think thus ?
Ans. Trust, read and study the Bible.
Quest. You do not mention Christ’s name in your prayers ?
Ans. You can do so.
Quest. Is it a necessary act of faith ?
Ans. Yes, to some.
Benediction. God |bless you, and lead you into the right
path. May He always watch over you. Good night.
In some of my future letters I must give you some of the
bad side; as untruthful and otherwise inferior controls will
take possession of the rod, the same as they do of tables.
Our friends, therefore, who try the rod, must test the commu¬
nication, as far as they can, when open to doubt.
Barrow-in-Furness, July 26,1874. W. B. Thornton.
MESSRS. BASTIAK AND TAYLOR’S MEDfOMSHIP.
Sir,—The above gentlemen, on passing through Edinburgh
on their way from America to London, having kindly ex¬
pressed their willingness to give the friends here an oppor¬
tunity of testing their mediumship, I have the pleasure of
sending you a brief account of a seance held here last Sunday.
With a public-spiritedness quite refreshing for Edinburgh,
and with a kind-heartedness no less to be admired, Mr. Forteous
invited Messrs. Bastian and Taylor to meet, at his house,
some sixteen anxious and honest enquirers, who, with himself
and family, desired to give to these “ illustrious strangers” a
stranger’s welcome.
Seated on one of Mr. Porteous’ dining-room chairs, Mr.
Taylor clasped with his left hand the right wrist of a lady
sitting on another chair, and directing us all to so follow his
example that each sitter’s right hand should, palm upwards,
form an inner circle of exposed right hands, which the spirits
might freely use, we completed a most harmonious circle.
Within this circle Mr. Bastian placed on the floor a large
musical box, weighing about sixteen pounds, a stringed instru¬
ment, a tin speaking-tube, a fan, and some flowers, after
which he sat down on a chair in the middle of the circle. Mr.
Taylor explained that whilst from this circle we were about to
supply the conditions most acceptable to the spirits, it
belonged to the peculiar organisation of Mr. Bastian to so
correlate—under spiritual laws—the sympathies of the sitters
as to attract to us those loved ones it would be his pleasure
to clairvoyantly describe. Mr. Bastian remarked that as the
manifestations which took place with him took place in his
normal state, he would not only keep constantly clapping his
hands, but that any one who chose could, at any time, with¬
out breaking either the circle or the conditions, place their
feet on his (Mr. Bastian’s) knees, so as to entirely satisfy the
circle, that beyond his mediumship he did nothing.
The gas being now entirely turned off, we joined in a little
sacred singing, when almost immediately was heard the roll¬
ing over the floor of the tin speaking trumpet, and in about a
minute after the playing of the musical box. After this the
fingering of the stringed instrument, the fingering of faces,
the shaking of hands, and fanning of the sitters generally.
By-and-bye we heard the musical box wound up and the lid
sharply closed and played while‘floating round almost every
head in the circle. In answer to a request the box was rested
first on one head and then on another, and in one instance
was balanced on one head for over twelve seconds, then safely
deposited on the knees of the sitter. Then followed the
floating over head of the stringed instrument, playing chords
all the while. Whilst this was being done, a voice was heard
speaking through the tube requesting us to break up the circle,
to rest the medium, and air the room.
In about a quarter of an hour we again took our seats, and
with the permission of the mediums to test as we pleased, it
was arranged that the musical box should be placed between
the feet of one gentleman at the bach of Bastian, whilst
another gentleman in front should place his feet on Bastian’s
knees. This being concluded the gas was again entirely
turned off, and to our astonishment the musical box, in
answer to a mental question, arose again, started on its over¬
head journey, here and there again resting on the heads of
the sitters as before. It is worthy of notice, that whilst this
was being done, there was not only speaking through the
tube going on, but that some six of the sitters were simul¬
taneously touched, and that one sitter had his hand firmly
grasped for over two seconds. At intervals Mr. Taylor
described the appearances of spirits present, and described
our late Vice-President so accurately, that all the members
present exclaimed “ That’s Keith I” Test questions proved
this to be correct. Mental test questions were freely
answered. Following this we had the most precise transfer
of property from one hand to another in such total dark¬
ness that however we reason over these marvels, our intense
wonderment remains the same. J. D. Morrison.
Cor. Sec. of the Pyschological
Edinburgh, 17th July, 1874. Society of Edinburgh.
BIBLE BUDDHISM.
Sir,—Would you admit a question on Prince Wittgenstein’s
letter (p. 42) from an outsider ?—that is, one greatly sympa¬
thising with your movement, or, at least, Allan Kardec’s, but
who hitherto, like Serjeant Cox, has sought in vain for real
evidence, or a balance of testimony for the spirit intercourse
I think so desirable if real, or against the Maskelyne and
Cook theory of your phenomena ? Apart from all such phe¬
nomena, I have been long led to adopt provisionally the
Pythagorean, Buddhist, or Kardec doctrine of our repeated
earthly lives, as the only one I see at present to harmonise
either with several mental phenomena, partly my own, others
thoroughly attested unawares (by authors ignorant of their
bearing), or with my notions of divine justice ; or, lastly, with
numerous parts of the Old and New Testaments, dark insoluble
riddles on any other theory I know of, but clear as the sun on
this one. Now I should think it some addition to these—
though but a trifle perhaps, if Scripture contained, as the
Prince suggests, the phrase, “resurrection of the flesh ; ” but
I remember no such expression, nor can I find it in a con¬
cordance,' under avdaraaiQ or <rap£. It occurs, instead of
the Nicsean “resurrection of the body,” in one of the versions
of the English creed—five varieties, I think, in all—used in
divine service ; but as not one worshipper in a hundred seems
ever to suspect he has more creeds than three, and any clergy¬
man I know would ridicule the idea of one minute’s inquiry as
to whethqj heaven was served by him with five creeds or fifty ;
the question whether, in shaking up the bag of mediaaval
cults, to turn out our Prayer-book, this particular phrase
turned up often or seldom, and where, is really of infinitesimal
import. We Protestants by no means reckon creeds in church
to be among the words—“idle” or other—whereof it was
said, “ By thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words
thou shalt be condemned.” But whether the phrase is
Biblical, as Prince Wittgenstein thinks, would be a question
really interesting. E. L. Garrett.
7, Mornington-road, N.W.
EARLY THEORIES CLAIMED AS NOVELTIES.
Sir,—I am very glad that Mr. Epes Sargent has reminded us of
the work of the late Dr. Bogers, entitled Philosophy of
Mysterious Agents, Human and Mundane, but the work was
not published in 1849, but in 1852, and the next year there
was an admirable reply by the Bey. Charles Beecher, published
in London as well as in America, Mr. Beecher having investi¬
gated Spiritualism at the request of “ the Congregational
Association of New York and Brooklyn,” and I need not say
concluded in favour of the spiritual theory. Now Mr. Cox and
Dr. Carpenter must abandon all claim to originality, since in
these early works we have the whole question discussed as to
the emanation from the medium of a force accompanied by
unconscious intelligence—so to speak—to account for the
manifestation. Whether the force be called mesmeric,
animal magnetic, psychic, or odyle or simple vital force, is of
little consequence—“ The rose by any other name,” &c.
The question is of things not words. The prevalence of
mesmerism at the time naturally suggested an emanation
similar, or the same, more powerfully conditioned. Mr.
Beecher considers two hypotheses:—1. Pneumatic; natural
72
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 7, 1874.
law with spirits. 2. Apneumatic ; natural law without spirits.
The second chapter is headed “ Automaton brainchapter 8,
“ Automatic or involuntary mental activity.” I am sorry for
Mr. Cox’s pretensions, and with regard to unconscious cerebra¬
tion, the fact was clearly and fully stated by me in my letters
to Miss Martineau, published in 1851, before either Dr.
Carpenter or Dr. Rogers, or Sir W. Hamilton had referred to
the question. I even supposed that there must be a separate
organ for consciousness, as “ the eye of the mind,” looking on,
but not at all essential to the rest of the cerebral action, and
as physical cerebral action is the basis of all the conscious
states, all conscious minds fundamentally must be unconscious
with a physical cause, and antecedent, just as the tree must
exist before we can perceive it. Hence all states of mind are
but the mental concomitants of cerebral action, and this at
once solves many a ^perplexing question, since a state of con¬
sciousness is neither an entity nor a force. Mr. Sargent very
properly refers to the science of Spiritualism ; perhaps he may
not remember that Lord Bacon declared that the nature and
source of spirits should be investigated after the same in¬
ductive method as any other question in science. All
phenomena in time will be reduced to law by science; Max
Muller has even lectured on the science of religion.
Hbnev G. Atkinson, F.G.S., &c.
Boulogne, July 30th, 1874.
THE SPIBIT CALLING HIMSELF AN EGYPTIAN.
Sir,—A few lines in corroboration of the interesting state¬
ments contributed by Mrs. 0. Woodforde on two recent occa¬
sions to your columns may not be unacceptable. In a private
capacity Mrs. Woodforde would need no voucher: a lady, in
every sense o.f the term, any statement she might make
would be accepted without reserve; but for those who have
not the pleasure of her acquaintance, i.e., for the general
public, a few words of corroboration (as far as she herself is
concerned) may be useful.
I will therefore say, briefly, that I was at the circle on one
of the occasions referred to in the first of the two communica¬
tions, and that I was, in fact, the principal interlocutor with
the spirit on the occasion. To my questions (some of them
received with impatience—impatience springing apparently
from intense suffering) he replied, as near as my memory
serves me, in these words—“ Who was my king ? I care not to
remember. I hated him, for he had more power than I.”
“ I cared for nothing but power—power—unlimited power.”
, “ I had many Israelites under me: I tortured them, rejoicing
in their tortures.” “ I had hundreds of wives and numberless
slaves, upon whom, unchecked, I inflicted every kind of
cruelty.” “As long as I lived I acknowledged nothing
superior to my own will.” “ I died, and became an evil
spirit. Power, power still my great passion, I pursued in the
spirit world the same career as on earth. For three thousand
yearp I have acted the part of the tempter—the Devil—to
successive generations of the human race, bending men and
women to my will, and forcing them to murder, rapine, and
every evil deed.”
After more to the same purport, he said that he had at last
been touched by the Divine mercy. Love had at last pene¬
trated through the iron surroundings of his heart; he was
sensible of a strange, softened feeling; his sufferings had now
commenced; he saw the whole wickedness and vileness of his
past existence; the whole of that period of three thousand
years he must live over again, retracing his steps, before he
could earn forgiveness and his rise could begin. “ Would
we—oh that we would!—give him the aid of our pity and our
prayers ?”
In reply to a question of mine, he said—“ I have seen Him
whom you call Christ. He is a great and glorious angel, of
almost unlimited power. I was one of the evil spirits who
urged on the Jewish populace to put Him to death. I stood
beside his cross, exulting in his tortures; and this is the
return He now makes to me;” alluding to the recent benefi¬
cent action of Jesus in seeking him and throwing over him
the radiance of His love.
When the circle broke up, and the light was fully turned
on, we, who had been conversing with “ bated breath,” began
naturally to revert to the topic which was uppermost in our
minds; and, in my own case, I fear my remarks were not
sufficiently subdued in matter or expression, for suddenly
the medium was again controlled, this time in full light,
by the spirit, who, turning principally upon me, fiercely ex¬
claimed, “ Why do you again summon me ? You knew I was
wretched; you knew I was suffering; how dared you talk of
me, and thus to call me back ? See to it, if you would pre¬
serve yourselves and your medium from harm, that you pray
for me, and at once.”
The fiendish glare of the eyes, and the general fierceness of
expression and gesture accompanying these words, were inde¬
scribable. We hastened to assure the spirit that he had
misunderstood our words and our disposition towards him,
and that he had our sincere pity and our earnest prayers for
his advancement. Complying with his request (or rather
demand), we finally pacified the unquiet one, and he left us;
I was, however, myself conscious afterwards of an oppressive
evil influence which resisted all my attempts to throw it off,
but from which Mrs. Woodforde’s guides succeeded in freeing
me. Altogether the, incident was impressive, and will not,
I venture to say, be readily forgotten by any of those who
happened to be present.
Undeniably this Egyptian is a spirit of great power of will,
and it is clear that the evil done by him during so many
ages, and still being done by similar spirits on this earth,
must be of an incalculable amount. It is well that the world
should know of this, and know its obligation to the guiding
spirits of Mrs. Woodforde, through whom such a communica¬
tion has been made possible.
Beyond the gratification of curiosity proper to the incident
itself, two inferences were forced by it on my mind: one, that
all spirits (and in that term I include the present generation
of the human family) can be intercessors more or less effec¬
tive with the Most High for spirits (whether in the body or
out of the body) of lower development than themselves; the
other, a corollary of the first—the precise nature, hidden
from me before, of the mediation of Jesus Christ, the most
perfect of the human race, between God and man.
Albert Snow.
18, Atlingworth-street, Brighton, July 27th, 1874.
P.S.—I should like to add a word of testimony to the bene¬
ficial effect on my health of a course of mesmerising, which,
through Mrs. Woodforde, I have undergone from her guides.
I feel sure that all persons whose constitutions require a
refined and delicate influence could not do better than apply
to the same source.—A. S.
Reports of recent meetings of the Liverpool and Dalston
Societies are kept over for want of space.
A grant of £5 has been made by the British National
Association of Spiritualists to the Spiritualists at Sowerby-
bridge, towards the liquidation of the expenses of their new
hall.
Dr. Gully informs us that he should like to assist in
establishing schools for the children of Spiritualists. All who
wish, to forward such an undertaking should write to Mr.
J. N. T. Martheze, 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton.
The Liverpool Psychological Society, the largest local
Spiritual Association in this country, has officially entered
into friendly alliance with the National Association, and will
be represented on its Council.
The warm thanks of all Spiritualists are due to Miss
Kislingbury and Mr. Algernon Joy, the two honorary secre¬
taries of the National Association, for the enormous amount
of labour and time they have given to their duties. Probably
no two Spiritualists in London have done so much honorary
work during the past year.
Liverpool Psychological Society.—Dr. William
Hitchman (by special request of this society) gave a philo¬
sophical address on Sunday evening last, under the title of
“ Spirituality of Soul Mathematically Demonstrated.” The
room was filled to its utmost capacity, and the closest atten¬
tion was paid to the doctor’s learned discourse.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J.—If Mr. Kilbum is one of his greatest creditors, he ought to say
so when he urges the public to keep the other person well
supplied with money.
INSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calamities.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person, a (theoretically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of the
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY,
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
OR TO «
MR. THOMAS ELY TON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW,
LONDON, E.
Aug. 7, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIBYOTANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover-square, two doors from Regent-street.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Oalder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, "Warwick-square, S.W".
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Ross-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, Colville-road, Eensingston-
park, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Oairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Eeningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, "Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-ohambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, &., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray's-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Robert, 6, South-street, Finsbury, Jii.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-hill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, C. W., F.S.S., 14, Bumley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M. A., M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, ;01d Kent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill,, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. TEmpereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James,Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
'MmeG. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. W00DF0RDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bushl
W. Please write.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm tay-
LOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums from America. Seances
every evening, except Sunday, at Eight o’clock. Tickets 5s. each. Address,
36, Keppel-street, Russell-square.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
K3 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table d'Hote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
WANTED, for a Lady Spiritualist, the services of a
YOUTH, under 16, or a very YOUNG GIRL, as Private Secre¬
tary. A good Grammarian indispensable,-and one who can also write
French preferred. Address, Hope, care of Mrs. Garraway, 23, Thurloe-
square, S.W.
WANTED by a Married Couple (Spiritualists), with a
little girl, for a permanency, a small HOUSE, or part of a house
(unfurnished), to consist of bedroom, two parlours, and a kitchen. Must
be in good repair, and healthily situated. Vicinity of Highbury, Dalston,
or Hackney Stations (North London Railway), preferred. Rent, inclusive
of all taxes, must be moderate. Letters to be addressed to “Advertiser,”
care of Thos. Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, B.
A GENTLEMAN who is a Spiritualist, and possesses
great healing power, residing in a healthy locality amongst the
Derbyshire hills, having undertaken the charge of a gentleman suffering
from sun stroke, desires to meet with another patient somewhat similarly
affected. Terms moderate. For further particulars apply to “H” care of
Mr. F. A. Binney, Solicitor, 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Mohammed and Mohammedanism: Lectures
delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain in February and
March, 1874. By R. BOSWORTH SMITH, M.A. Crown 8vo, 6s.
“A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published.”—Academy.
“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicial
reasoning, and eloquent exposition.”—Scotsman.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STAND-POINT.
A Resume of Evidence—pro and con.
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
Ingle & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
npHE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
X THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence, js To be h ad of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell- street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 7, 1874.
EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Gr. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., Gk Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., O.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con-
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of ufiimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  '
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is'often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. > If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as snirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of, a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS AND FRIENDS.
T
HE Spiritualists of Sowerby Bridge have, up to the
present time, held their meetings in a cottage at Causeway Head.
This has now been found inadequate, and in order to carry out more pro¬
gressive principles, a new Lyceum has been built to seat about 300 persons in
Hollin’s-lane Sowerby-bridge, along with eight dwellings which are
intended to endow the Lyceum at some future time, when they can be
freed from Mortgage. The Building when complete, will cost above £1,500
of which £1,000 has been obtained on mortgage at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum, which leaves a debt of over £400. An Appeal to the friends
of Spiritualism is proposed. It is desired that 300 friends will kindly give
£1 each; the remainder will probably be raised at home.' Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappau has kindly consented to open the New Hall, and she heads the
list with a donation of £5. Several friends in the out-district have already
promised £1 each. The Bradford friends are arranging for a benefit of
two Orations to be given by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, some time in the
month of August.
This is earnestly put before the friends of the movement, as it is impossi¬
ble to borrow money on a School, or Lyceum, owing to the actions of the
School Board. And as this is the first building in the kingdom of Great
Britain, belonging solely to Spiritualism, and as the money will shortly be
due to the various contractors, it is hoped that those who can do something
for the cause will do so. The projectors are all working men, and this is
one of the boldest attempts to carry out the true religion or science of
Spiritualism. It is intended to open the new Lyceum on Sunday,
August 2nd, 1874.
To those who are not in a position to give the amount, smaller sums may
be sent, and to those who cannot give money, tracts, books, spiritual
periodicals, and back numbers of the London Spiritual papers will be thank¬
fully received. As a library is connected with the Institution, those who
can help with books will do good in many ways. The friends are thankful
for the support and encouragement that have already been given, and
kindly solicit further favour and support.
Donations for this great object can be forwarded to the Secretary,
Henry Lord, Union street. Beech,
July 14th. Sowerhy-bridge, Yorkshire.
List already promised.
£ s. d.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan 5 0 0
Twelve other friends £1 each   12 0 0
A Friend at Oldham ... ... ■   10 0
A Ditto at Manchester   10 0
H. J. L.   20 0 0
National Association of Spiritualists, London 5 0 0
John Lament, Liverpool  1 1 0
E. Broadbent  10 0
J. G.   2 0 0
Three Friends  112 6
J. Milner  1 0 0
J. O. andJ.S     ... 7 6
Wm. Jackson     2 0 0
E Holt  10 0
Benjamin Swaine, 3rd Donation   10 0
A Bath Friend    10 0
Two Spiritualists ... ■ ... ... ... ... 4 6
Proceeds from Mr. Tappan's Oration ... 5 10 0
£61 5 6
A parcel of 8 Books and Tracts from James Raistrick, Leeds.
Mr. James Burns has kindly given his services on Sunday, August 9th,
1874, for the benefit of the new Lyceum.
P.S.—The amounts and other gifts will be acknowledged in the London
Spiritualist periodicals. ■  *
REWARD.—MA8KELYNE & COOKE.
AN EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lahe.
Price One Penny.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Cnmpden-hill, or from
Baillikre & Co., King 'William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
Th^ Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
A GENTLEMAN, formerly Master of a Church. Grammar
School, thrown out of occupation through his adoption of
Spiritualism, will be grateful if any brother Spiritualist will put him in
the way, directly or indirectly, of procuring in London, or elsewhere,
employment as PRIVATE SECRETARY, Tutor, Master of School, ar
otherwise. Address: Alpha, 18, Atlingworth-street, Brighton.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.C.
