4
No. ,69.—(Vol. III.—No. 30.) LONDON: DECEMBER 19, 1873. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
aments.
Letters of Lavater to the Empress Marie of Russia.—First Letter on
“The State of the Soul after Death ”  4(17
Spirit Teachings    468
The Human Double       46!)
An Address bv John King.—“ General Address of King, Servant and
Scholar of God ”     471
The French Testimonial to Mrs, Tappan       471
Spirit Identity   ...       ... 472 I
A New Discovery in Physics     472 |
Review.—“The Wheel of the Law;’’ Buddhism, illustrated from
Siamese Sources—Buddha on Religious Belief and Life—The Temp¬
tation of Buddha      '   ... 473
Correspondence.—Pure The’sm—Suppress!© Yeri, et Falsa Deductio— '
Legal Persecution of English Mediums—Spiritual Phenomena in
Dublin—Madame Louise’s Mediumship—Spirit Identity ...    475 ;
Mrs. Jencken’s Mediumship     477
Paragraphs.—Spirit Forms, 478; Extraordinary Hallucirat on. 478;
The'Dalston Association, 478; The National Association, 478; Finan¬
cial. 478; Mr. Cropkes and Spiritualism ...       479
Answers to Correspondents      479
Crown Svo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hiU.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, marshall & Co.
TTUST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS. — LEC-
B'2 TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
mHE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL-
JL ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o'clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, orCThursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rcoms, 3.0, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, //on. Sec.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Z/arbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
mHE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News-
.JL paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOOIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT 'WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and Geneial News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. L The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. Cd.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
S.^The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mihd:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Zrish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest —South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book, is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London : Longman and Co.' Paternoster-row.
•IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
* Sputhampton-buildings, Chancery-lane. -
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
ftom 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navurino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Memlnrship, by donation o\ £2 2s. Pi’ospjilus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
46G
Dec. 19, 1873.
I^HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
\_y and sixpence for tlie first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is. not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of th's newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not Jater
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders'for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. AlU n, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The SpirituciHst
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. Gd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'■The Spiritualist ” in
’ London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor' or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. IF. Allen, 11, yl?;e -Maria-lane,
E. 0., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. E. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Banger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Libl'arian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Bichard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
imo England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held-on Sunday evenings at Qoswell Hall, 86,
Gtoswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of settwee.?, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Booms, 30, Parkfield-street, Islington.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the followin dealers in Spiritua
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco —Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London ublisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, byt’ emitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty nu nbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of tlje English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.'
RALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS LSTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 187x1.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, j Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E.J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spirimalistn, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhoo.t thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September. 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter caxeful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi
nary seance held on the first Thursday eveningin each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on theyfrif Thursday
evening in each month.
All communicaiions to be addressed to the Secretary', at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
THE SERIES OF LECTURES as above, by MRS.
CORA L. Y. TAPPAN—so successfully inaugurated on the evening
of the 23rd October—at Westbourue Hall,
ARE NOW BEINO DELIVERED
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING AT LAWSON’S ROOMS,
145, GOWER-STREET.
Doors open at 7. 80. Admission, Is. and 6d, each.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James WaSon, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Treasurer.—'hUr. Joseph Dinsdale. Librarian.—Mr. John Moore.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. Ambrose Egerton.
Mr. John Mayle.
Mrs. M. A. Richardson.
Mr. Wm. Richardson.
Mrs. L. A. Lamont.
Mrs. Eliza Clement.
Mrs. S. A. Spring.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. George Shaw.
Mr. John Lamont.
Auditors.
Mr. Edwin Banks. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Secretaires.
Financial and Recording Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld Stree
West Derby Road, Liverpool.
Corresponding -....Mr. J. Y. Flannery, Murnington Terrace,
Seacombe, near Liverpool.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of develop ng their physical^mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into cons deration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will he eketed for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at. the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
MOST comfortably FURNISHED HOUSE, at
HENDON, to be LET for Six Months or more, or the FREEHOLD
would be SOLD. It stands on high grout d in a large well-stocked and
ornamental garden, contains three reception rooms, six bedrooms, bath
room and necessary domestic offices, piano, plate, linen, &c. Unusual ad¬
vantages for a Spirit Circle. Address Morell Theobald, Esq., Fernside,
Hendon, N.W.
Dec. 19, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
467
LETTERS OF LAYATER TO THE EMPRESS MARIE
OF RUSSIA.
The series consists of six letters “ on the future state
of the soul,” from John Gaspard Lavater, to Marie
Empress of Paul I., and three letters written through a
medium, by a departed spirit, to a friend on earth. It
does not appear who was the recipient, nor who the
medium, but Lavater was evidently satisfied of the
genuineness of the spirit letters. From a preface and an
introduction prefixed to a French . edition of them
published by M. Alfred Yeron, at Paris in 1868, from
which edition this translation has been made, it appears
that Lavater made the acquaintance' of the “ Count
and Countess du Nord ” (under which titles the then
Grand Duke and Duchess of Russia were travelling) at
Zurich and Schaffhausen in 1782. The letters in
question are dated 1798 (the former Grand Duke and
Duchess being then on the throne). The existence of
the letters appears to have been unknown to Lavater’s
biographers ; but they were found, together with some
others by the same hand, by Dr.'MinzlofF (Curator of
the Imperial Library of St. Petersburg) on the occasion
of his making a revision of the library at the grand
ducal chateau of Pawlowsk, where the Empress Mary
had spent her widowhood. By the authority of the
then possessor of the chateau, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, they were all published at St. Petersburg in
1858 by the Baron Korff, then member of Council, and
formerly director of the Imperial Library. They were
printed at the cost of the Imperial Library, and pre¬
sented to the Senate of the University of Jena. The
original manuscript, which is in German, was deposited
in the Imperial Library, and from it a translation into
French of those letters referring to the future state of
the soul was made by M. Alfred Yeron. The present
translation of the letters into English, was kindly made
for this journal by Mrs. Honywood, assisted by other
friends of Spiritualism.
M. Yeron states that the ideas expressed are very
similar to those of the “ Theosophs” of Lavater’s day,
a sect which contained very many enlightened men,
who, however, kept some of their doctrines secret. He
also considers that the ideas in question agree in a re¬
markable manner with the “ doctrines of modern
spiritism.”
Some of Lavater’s ideas, and even of those expressed
in the spirit letters, may, however, appear rather crude
and narrow to some of us in the present state of our
knowledge on the subject, but they are extremely in¬
teresting, if only from a historical point of view, and
their ethics are of the purest and most elevated
character.
FIRST LETTER ON “THE STATE OF THE SOUL AFTER
DEATH.”
Most revered Marie of Russia, Graciously permit
me to omit the title of Majesty, due to you from the
world, but which jars with the sacredness of the subject
on which you wish me to address you, and which would,
moreover, interfere with the openness and freedom I
would use towards you in this matter. You desire to
know something of my ideas on the state of the soul
after death. Notwithstanding the little that is known
even by the most wise and learned amongst us, inas¬
much as none who have departed for the unknown
world have returned to us, the thinking man, who is a
disciple of Him who came down to us from heaven, is
yet enabled to tell us as much as is necessary to en¬
courage, tranquillise, and make us reflect.
I will confine myself in this letter to certain general
ideas. I think that there must be a great difference
between the condition, the mode of feeling and thinking,
of a soul separated from the material body, and that of
one still in the body. The difference must, be at least
as great as that between a newly-born infant, and one
still within the mother’s womb. In this life, our soul,
bound to matter, feels and understands only through
our senses and organs. According to the differences
between a telescope, a microscope, and spectacles, the
objects at which we look through them appear under
different conditions. Our senses are the telescopes,
microscopes, and spectacles necessary to our present
material life. I think that the visible world disappears
from the soul when separated from the body, just as it
does during sleep, or else that the world which the
soul perceived through the medium of its earthly body
assumes a totally different aspect to that soul when
freed from matter. If the soul could remain for a
season without a body, the material world would not
exist for it; but if, as I think ' probable, it is, on
leaving the earthly frame, immediately clothed in a
spiritual frame withdrawn from the material one, the
new body must inevitably give it an entirely different
perception of things. If, as might easily be the. case
with an impure soul, this spiritual body remained for
some time imperfect and undeveloped, the whole uni¬
verse would seem confused, as if seen through an un¬
polished glass.
But if the spiritual frame (the conductor and medium
of new impressions) be or become more developed and
better organised, the soul’s world will appear to it more
harmonious and more beautiful, according to the nature
and quality of the new organs, and the degree of
perfection and harmony of the soul. The organs
become simplified, more harmonious with one another,
and adapt themselves better to the nature and cha¬
racter, the wants and powers of the soul, according
as it concentrates, purifies, and enriches itself here on
earth, in pursuing one sole aim and one unvarying
course. The soul itself, during its earth-life, perfects
the faculties of the spiritual body (the vessel in which
it is to dwell after the death of the material body), and
by means of which it will apprehend, feel, and act in
its new existence. This new body, being suited to the
inner nature of the soul, will enable it to become pure,
loving, lively, and open to all noble feelings, impres¬
sions, contemplations, actions, and enjoyments.
All that we can, or cannot say upon the state of the
soul after death must equally accord with this one
permanent and general a&iom: “ Man reaps that he
has sown.” It would be difficult to find a more clear,
simple, and comprehensive principle, or one more
capable of application to every possible case.
There is a general law of nature intimately allied,
nay, identical with the aforesaid principle, affecting the
state of the soul after death—a law which holds alike
in all possible worlds or states—in the material and
visible, as in the spiritual and invisible—to wit: —
“ Like attracts like. Unity, of whatever kind, must
lead to union, unless greater forces intervene.”
The whole doctrine of the state of the soul after death
is based upon the following simple principle; all that we
are in the habit of speaking of, as judgment, compensa¬
tion, supreme happiness, damnation, may be thus ex¬
plained : In so far as thou hast sown good seed in thy
self, in others, and around thee, thou shalt belong to the
company of those who, like thee, have sown good seed in
468
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 19, 1873.
themselves and around them, thou shaJt enjoy the friend¬
ship of those whom thou hast resembled in their (jood
deeds.
Every soul freed from the body, and from its ma¬
terial chains, sees itself as it really is. All the be¬
guiling illusions, all the seductions which impeded its
insight into itself and its knowledge of its own strength,
its foibles and its errors, shall disappear. It will ex¬
perience an irresistible impulse of attraction towards
souls similar to itself, and a like repulsion from those
which are dissimilar. Its own inherent weight, as by
the law of gravitation, will seem to drag it down into
a bottomless abyss ; or else it will fly, according to the
degree of its purity, even as a spark is borne aloft in
the air by its levity, and will pass rapidly into realms
of limpid and ethereal light.
The soul itself determines its own proper weight by
its inner consciousness ; it is urged forwards, or back¬
wards, or aside, according to its degree of perfection;
its own moral or religious character imparts to it certain
special tendencies. The good soul, impelled by its love
of virtue, will rise towards others that are good. The
evil soul is perforce impelled towards those that are
evil. Impure, immoral, and irreligious souls will
plunge down to the level of their compeers with a fall
as swift and sure as that of an anvil hurled into a
yawming chasm.
This will suffice for the present.
(To be continued from week to week, God willing )
Zurich, 1. viii., 1798. r Jean Gaspakd Lavateb.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
Are there separate places for different souls ?,
Acs, assuredly. Spirits may be on the same plane,
and yet have reached it by different routes. Spirits
may be on the same plane, and yet be very divergent in
character. The spheres are pictured to your minds as
places like your world, and it is, perhaps, impossible
for you to realise them otherwise. But you know that
even in your world there are many souls who are dis¬
tinguished for different virtues and excellences, and
who are yet on a similar plane of moral and mental
condition. You would not, perhaps, say of many when
they cast aside the body and go to their work in the
spheres, that this is pronouncedly good, and that dis¬
tinctly evil, or that this is better and that best. You
would rather say, perchance, that the evil is mingled
with the good ; that none is all bad ; that they differ
among themselves in their varied excellences; that
this was more loving and gentle ; that more wise and
versed in knowledge; this, more humble and teachable,
the other more philanthropic. Of one you might say
in praise, that spite of plain faults, he was a good son,
a loving husband; of another, that his intellect had
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. 'Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mtdiumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also the extracts they gave from their writiugs were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true, fiance there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from bis own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are' selected in
chronological Older from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
wrought good service to his country. You would not
say whether the man whose tongue and pen had ever
been ranged on the side of right and justice against
wrong and oppression, was higher than he who had
spent his life in ministering to suffering and woe, in
tending and soothing misery and want. You would
say that each in his sphere was good and noble. You
would trust that in the spirit world opportunity might
be found for the development of qualities which did
not grow in the body; that the philanthropist might
find means for mental growth; and that the philosopher
might progress in the development of the affectional
side of his nature, So, indeed, it is ordained. There
are states or conditions to which souls naturally gravi¬
tate, and in these states or spheres there are divisions.
Souls attract souls by congeniality of pursuit, by
similarity of temper, by remembrance of previous
association, or by present work. To some, life is more
active; to some, more contemplative. They are
different, yet equal in grade.
The spheres are indeed separate states, and each has
its own characteristics and peculiarities. They differ
from each other, though not so widely as from your
earth-sphere. The occupations are varied by loss of
th'- body; but occupation there is for all. Time and
splice as you know them, are gone; no provision for the
body remains to be made; the energies of the spirit are
more concentred and less selfish.
Food ? Movement ?
No, not as you understand it.. We are supported by
the spirit-ether which inter-penetrates space, and by
which your spirit-bodies are even now supported. It
is the universal food and support ol the spirit, whether
incarnated or not. Will-power suffices for our move¬
ments. We are attracted by sympathy, repelled by
antipathy; drawn by desire on our part or on that of
those who wish for our presence.
Do you Tcnow anything of the spheres beyond yours ?
Little. The passage from the highest of the seven
spheres of probation, to the lowest of the seven spheres
of contemplation, is a change analogous to what you
know as death. We hear little from beyond, though
we know that the blessed ones who dwell there have
power to help and guide us even as we watch over you.
But we know nothing by experimental knowledge of
their work, save that they are occupied with nearer
views of the Divine perfection, in closer contemplation
of the causes of things, and in nearer adoration of the
Supreme. We are far from that blissful state. We
have our work yet to do ; and in doing it we find our
delight.
Something was said the other evening about the spheres
below the earth. Do you Tcnow of them ?
It is necessary for you to remember that spirits speak
according to their experience and knowledge. We
believe that we state what is accurate when we say
that your earth is the highest of seven spheres; that
there are succeeding the earth-life seven spheres of
active work, and succeeding these, seven spheres of
Divine contemplation. But each sphere has many states.
We have said something to you of the reasons why the
voluntarily degraded souls sink until they pass the
boundary beyond which restoration becomes hard. The
perpetual choosing of evil and refusing of good breeds
necessarily an aversion to that which is pure and good,
and a craving for that which is debased. Spirits of
this character have usually been incarned in bodies
where the animal passions had great sway. They began
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 19, 1873.
469
by yielding to animal desires, and ended by being
slaves of the body. Noble aspirations, godlike longings,
desire for holiness and purity, all are quenched, and in
place the body reigns supreme, dictating its own laws,
quenching all moral and intellectual light, and sur¬
rounding the spirit with influences and associations of
impurity. Such a soul is in perilous case. The
guardians retire affrighted from the presence; they
cannot breathe the atmosphere which surrounds it;
other spirits take their place ; spirits who in their earth
life had been victims to kindred vices. They live over
again their earthly sensual lives, and find their grati¬
fication in encouraging the soul to base and debasing
sin. This tendency of bodily sin to reproduce itself is
one of the most fearful and terrible of the consequences
of conscious gross transgression of nature’s laws. The
soul has found all its pleasure in bodily gratifications,
and lo ! when the body is dead the spirit still hovers
round the scene of its former gratifications and lives
over again the bodily life in the vices of those whom
it lures to sih. Round the gin shops of your cities,
dens of vice, haunted by miserable besotted wretches,
lost to self-respect and sense of shame, hover the
spirits who in the flesh were lovers of drunkenness and
debauchery. They lived the drunkard’s life in the body,
they live it over again now, and gloat with fiendish glee
over the downward course of the spirit whom they are
leagued to ruin. Could you but see how in spots where
the vicious congregate the dark spirits throng, ye would
know something of the mystery of evil. It is the
influence of these debased spirits which tends so much
to aggravate the difficulty of retracing lost steps, which
makes the descent of Avernus so easy, the return so-
toilsome. The slopes of Avernus are dotted with souls
hurrying to their destruction, sinking with mad haste to
ruin. Each is the centre of a knot of malignant spirits,
who find their joy in wrecking souls and dragging them
down to their own miserable level.
Such are the souls which gravitate when released
from the body to congenial spheres below the earth.
They and their tempters find their home together in
spheres where they live in hope of gratifying passions
and lusts, which have not faded with the loss of the
means of satisfying their cravings.
In these spheres they must remain subject to the
attempted influence of missionary spirits, until the
desire for progress is renewed. When the desire rises
the soul makes its first step. It becomes amenable to
holy and ennobling influence and is tended by those
pure and self-sacrificing spirits whose mission it is to
tend such souls. You have among you spirits bright
and noble, whose mission in the earth-life is among the
dens of infamy and haunts of vice, and who are pre¬
paring for themselves a crown of glory, whose brightest
jewels are self-sacrifice and love. So amongst us there
are spirits who give themselves to work in the sphere
of the degraded and abandoned. By their efforts many
spirits rise, and when rescued from degradation, work
out long and laborious purification in the probation
spheres, where they are removed from influences of evil
and entrusted to the care of the pure and good. So
desire for holiness is encouraged and the spirit is
purified.
I have been told that there are six of these lower
spheres. Do you hnow of them all ?
Of the lower spheres we know little. We only know
vaguely that there are separations made between de¬
grees and sorts of vice. Souls that will not seek for
anything that is good, that wallow in, impurity and
vice, sink lower and lower, until they lose conscious
identity, and become practically extinct, so far as per¬
sonal existence is concerned.
Alas! alas! sad and sorrowful is the thought.
Mercifully, such cases are rare, and spring only from
deliberate rejection by the soul of all that is good and
ennobling. This is the sin unto death of which Jesus
told His followers; the sin against the Holy Spirit of
God of which you are told. The sin, viz., of rejecting
the influences of God’s holy angel ministers, and of
preferring the death of vice and impurity to the life of
holiness and purity and love. It is the sin of exalting
the animal to the extinction of the spiritual; of de¬
grading even the corporeal; of cultivating sensual
earthy lusts; of depraving even the lowest tastes; of
reducing the human to the level of the lowest brute.
In such the Divine essence is quenched; the baser
elements are fostered, forced, developed to undue ex¬
cess. They gain absolute sway, they quench the
spirit, and extinguish all desire for progress. The vice
perpetuates itself, and drags the wretch who has
yielded himself to the animal enjoyments further and
further from the path of progress, until even the animal
becomes vitiated and diseased ; the unhealthily stimu¬
lated passions prey on themselves ; and the voice of the
spirit is heard no more. Down must the soul sink,
down, and yet down further and further until it is lost
in the fathomless obscurity of the spheres, where it is
practically annihilated.
This is the unpardonable sin. Unpardonable, not
because the Supreme will not pardon, but because the
sinner chooses it to be so. Unpardonable because
pardon is impossible where sin is congenial, an
penitence unfelt.
Punishment is ever the immediate consequence of
sin ; of its essence ; not arbitrarily meted out, but the
inevitable result of the violation of law. The conse¬
quences of such transgression Cannot be altogether
averted, though they may be palliated by remorse ; the
effect of which is to breed a loathing for sin and a
desire for good. This is the first step, the retracing of
false steps, the undoing of error, and by consequence,
the creation in the spirit of another longing. The
spiritual atmosphere is changed, and into it good angels
enter readily and aid the striving soul. It is isolated
from evil agencies. Remorse and sorrow are fostered.
The spirit becomes gentle and tender, amenable to in¬
fluences of good. The hard, cold, repellent tone is
gone, and the soul progresses. So the results of former
sin are purged away, and the length and bitterness of
punishment alleviated. This is ever true for -all time.
It was on this principle that I told you of the folly
which dictates your dealings with the transgressors of
your laws. Were we to deal with offenders so, there
would be no restoration, and the spheres of the depraved
would be crowded with lost and ruined souls. But
God is wiser, and we are His ministers.
THE HUMAN DOUBLE.
BY BENJAMIX COLE MAX.
Amoxg the most intelligent inquirers with whom I
conversed at Brighton was a lady of title. She told
me that she was one of those present at the Davenport
seance, held at the residence of Sir Hesketh Fleetwood.
She was seated in the dark seance by the side of a
gentleman whose previous scepticism, he confessed to
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 19, 1873.
470
her, was fast disappearing in the face of the facts they
were witnessing, when a light was suddenly struck,
and both of them distinctly saw the form of Ira Daven¬
port glide close past them. This incident very much
disturbed the confidence of Lady L , and entirely
satisfied the sceptic that imposition was practised, and
he left the room a confirmed unbeliever. I told Lady
L  that, on his return to London, Mr. Ferguson
spoke to me of this very fact, as one of the most
curious that had yet occurred at any of the seances.
He was holding, he said, the box of matches, as he
usually does, when the box was snatched from his
hand, and a light was struck by the invisible operator,
and during the momentary ignition of the match he
plainly saw a form, apparently of a human figure. He
said nothing at the moment, but whispering the fact
to Mr. Fay, he confirmed it, and afterwards several of
those present admitted that they, too, had seen it. Mr.
Ferguson, however, was not aware that anyone present
supposed it to be the actual person of Ira Davenport,
as no observation to that effect was made, and as Ira
Davenport was seen instantly afterwards when the light
was restored,, fast bound to his chair, it was simply
impossible that the suspicions of Lady L or her
friend could have been well founded.
But, admitting that two competent witnesses did
actually see the form of Ira Davenport on that occa¬
sion, it is corroborative, of a very important and inte¬
resting fact, and distinct phase of these puzzling
mysteries of spiritual appearances—viz., the duplication
of individual form. Mr. Ferguson, who did not on
that occasion recognise the resemblance to Ira Daven¬
port, nevertheless has, as he solemnly asserts, seen at
other times, when alone with them, the entire dupli¬
cated form of Ira Davenport, and a part of Mr. Fay ;
and in my first conversation with the Davenport
Brothers they told me, among other curious facts of
their extraordinary history, that persons had said they
had met one or other of them in places where they had
not been. On one occasion their father went to a
neighbouring shop to order some fruit, when he was
told by the shopkeeper that his son Ira had just been
there, and had ordered the fruit. It was, however,
satisfactorily proved that Ira had not left the house,
and that the man must have seen his “ wraith,” or
“ double.”
The same phenomenon has been witnessed with other
recognised mediums. It will be recollected by those who
have read my American Notes, that Miss Laura Edmonds,
daughter of Judge Edmonds, told me that her spirit
in natural form had more than once appeared to friends
at a distance; and Miss Mapes, daughter of Professor
Mapes, assured me that her friend, Miss Edmonds, had
appeared to her, and delivered messages, though bodily
they were living twenty miles apart.
It is also well known to many Spiritualists in Lon¬
don that the late Mrs. IST—— had the power of pro¬
jecting her spirit, and appearing, by pre-arrangement,
to persons living at a distance from her, and doubtless
there are many other instances of this peculiar develop¬
ment known to others. Admitting the fact that the
spirit of the living person can assume the natural form,
and by action and speech impress the witnesses with
their bodily presence, many hitherto unaccountable and
mysterious events may be reasonably explained.
I am not aware that this phase of Spiritualism has
ever been brought prominently under consideration by
any writer on the subject; but it is very important
that we should endeavour to collect all the facts, so
that the varied phenomena which so many have wit¬
nessed may be classified, and a sound theory, tending
to reconcile some of the difficulties which beset the
subject, may be arrived at.
I may as well anticipate the question that will, no
doubt, arise in the minds of many—that, supposing the
spirit of a living person can assume a natural form, and
become an actual intelligent agent,producing mechanical
effects—may not that account for much of what we are
accustomed to attribute to the presence of the spirits of
departed persons ?
I answer, Yes; but not all. We have too much
evidence of spiritual individual identity, and too many
instances of direct intelligence, perfectly independent of
surrounding witnesses, to admit the possibility of our
own spirits acting on all occasions the double, and
deceiving our senses.
Again, it may be asked, “ Do you think that any of
the phenomena which we are accustomed to attribute to
spirits of the dead may be produced by the spirits of the
living?” And again I answer “Yes.” After close
observation and calm reflection upon the whole range of
these Davenport manifestations I am inclined to believe
that the rope tying and untying, the handling and car¬
rying about of musical instruments, &c., are partly
effected by their “ doubles,” and it may be that they
are in part assisted by other spirits. The unerring
certainty with which the same phenomena are pro¬
duced in the presence of the Davenports, day after day,
tends to confirm the opinion that their own “ spirits,”
or “ doubles,” produce many of the mechanical effects
which we witness. On one occasion, when they were
bound in the usual manner within the cabinet, and the
test of filling their hands with flour was applied, a
group of four hands was seen, and one of them I plainly
sa w was covered with flour.
And another idea occurs to me ; as it is certain that
four instruments are played upon at one time, requiring
the ^agency of six or eight hands, it may be that the
mediums’ hands are not only duplicated, but that they
are triplicated and multiplied, according to the neces¬
sities of the case, and the existing conditions and
strength of the medium power. -We know that there
is upon record ample evidence of apparitional appear¬
ances of persons still living, sometimes seen at the point
of death, sometimes days before, and held to be death
warnings, and at other times of persons in health and
remaining so for an indefinite period, and again there
are instances of persons seeing themselves.
This phenomenon, in Germany called Ddppelgangers,
is attested by many learned physiologists and psycho¬
logists of that country; and Mrs. Crowe, in her inter¬
esting work The Nightside of Nature, written and
published, I believe, before the modern spiritual mani¬
festations were recognised in Europe, has a chapter of
facts, which establish the certainty of the appearance
of what are called Wraiths in Scotland, Fetches in
Ireland, and Apparitions, or doubles in England.
Mr. Dale Owen, in his very excellent book Footfalls
on the Boundary of Another World, has also collected
a number of well-attested ghost stories, which support
a belief in these spiritual or apparitional visitants.
From these, and many other sources, much corrobo¬
rative evidence may be obtained to establish the fact
that the spirit forms of living persons have been seen
at various times and places, and the theory, which I
I now venture to suggest is, “ that many manifestations
Dec. 19, 1873.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
471
■which Spiritualists are accustomed to attribute to the
spirits of the departed are, in truth, effected by their
own doubles.”
This idea can in no degree destroy our cherished
belief in the power of departed spirits to communicate
with us. On the contrary, it tends to confirm it, for if
spirits in the flesh can assume a tangible form, and
actually produce certain mechanical effects, why may
not spirits out of the flesh be able to do all this, and
much more ? Let it be once recognised that spirit is a
living entity when separated from the fleshly body,
having a dynamic power over matter, and the great
difficulty which enshrouds the materialistic mind
vanishes. I am not wedded to a dogma on this or any
other subject. I am earnestly in search of truth, and
do not, therefore, hesitate to put forward any new
theory for the consideration of those better qualified to
deal with it, even if the result should be to modify or
to destroy my previous faith. 1 am only concerned to
uphold—in opposition to the arrogant assumptions of
‘ignorant sceptics—that the phenomena of which we
speak are not to be attributed to delusion, to legerde¬
main, or to any recognised natural cause.—Spiritual
Magazine, vol. vi., 1865, pp. 125-6.
AN ADDRESS BY JOHN KINO.
In England, America, Australia, and other parts of
the world, not a few of the spirits who preside at the
production of spiritual manifestations call themselves
“ John King,” a name which one of them told us to be
symbolical of “ power.” One of the first of these John
Kings produced some very powerful manifestations
through the mediumship of Jonathan Koons, farmer,
Dover, Athens, Co., Ohio, and the spirit once wrote the
following address with his own hand:—
GENERAL ADDRESS OP KING, SERVANT AND SCHOLAR OF GOD.
The spirit of one who makes himself known by the name
of “ King,” Servant and Scholar of God, desires to make his
general, address in the presence of Jonathan Koons, his family,
and others ; which persons I have selected in consequence of
the pure clairvoyant power which exists among them, and
other mesmeric qualities, whereby spirits are enabled to speak
and write sentiments which are in this mode not liable to be
distorted by bias, or misrepresented by ignorance. And in
consequence of the anxious desire manifested by those people
to receive spiritual truth do we come amongst them ; yet we
know that our work will be rejected by many, and condemned
as the production of their King Devil, whom they profess to
repudiate, but do so constantly serve by crucifying truth, and
rejecting all that is contrary to their own narrow pride and
vain imaginings. . . . Truly we do not flatter ourselves
with the idea of a welcome from minds of this class, or from
any who are bigoted to their own opinions ; nor do we seek to
accommodate our speech to the prejudices of man, as we fear
is the case with many of the manifesting spirits of this day.
But strange as the form of human speech is to us now, and
bounded as is the thought of angels in its narrow confines, yet
as far as words can serve, am I bound to speak of that divine
truth I know, for its influences reach me like a flaming fire
streaming from the celestial realms of the Most High, and
pour in consuming justice over the earth, winnowing the
chaff of falsehood from the grains of truth, until the uttermost
parts of the earth shall be fed with the bread of eternal life.
... Many there are who so firmly engrave the image of
Satan on their hearts that they see only his reflection when
they look abroad, or behold in the faces of others the picture
mirrored, which they themselves have drawn ; and such, I
full well know, will thus regard my coming. The bigot will
have none of me, because I have said, in opposition to his
narrow creed, that I am of a race of men who lived before
their fabled Adam ; and because I claim a still more ancient
state than their ignorance can master. I must be false, or
else, “ a spirit of evil.” If I would tear the mask of ignor¬
ance from the eyes of men, and show them truths long hid in
darkness or veiled by superstition; if I dare disturb their
fabled thoughts of God, and how He wrought in the days when
men were unacquainted with the means to record their life
and times, and hand them down to posterity—then they cry
out their comprehensive watchword, “ Devil 1” so that all
which they in their littleness think right, they call “ the Word
of God,” and label “ sacred,” and all which they do not know or
comprehend, they call “ the work of Satan,” or the words
of “ heathens.” . . . With what astonishment we con¬
template this frail and blinded being, man ! So frail, and
yet assuming to be so strong, that a weak short-lived mortal
presumes to call a nation his, and swings in his very hands the
destinies of millions of his fellow-beings, seizing their lands,
spoiling their goods and houses, and making laws by which he
binds their very lives, until his own is rent from him in a
single minute, and then the strong man becomes a clod of
clay ! ... So blind that he cannot see the event of the
next ensuing instant, and yet pietending to know just what
God thinks, and wills, and does, and how He made all things,
and how He is pleased or angered ; pleased with one human
worm for mumbling out a form of words, and angered with
another for eating meat upon a day when he shhuld eat nought
but fish ; in a word, this poor blind atom, fain would claim to
know what celestial angels, who presided at his planet's birth,
would veil their heads in deep humility ere pretend to under¬
stand. And thus man sits in his darkened cell of ignorance,
wrapped in the antique rags his ancestors have woven, and
thinks he’s walking in the light of celestial revelation. Grop¬
ing himself in blindness, he pretends to point to others the
only path to Heaven. . . . Living amongst dead men’s
bones, hesays “ there is no spirit,” and pretends to gather from
the ashes of corruption, the daily bread, meet for the living
soul. He looks to earth for heaven; to matter to discover
spirit; to a dead and buried past, to steer his bark through
present ills, or guide it to future heavens. He makes himself
a king, and then parcels out God’s heritage to his fellow-men,
as if the earth were his, instead of being stolen from God.
He makes himself a priest, and then pretends to sell out
passports to God’s heavealy kingdom. He takes away the
patriarch’s ladder on which angelic feet descend, and then
sets up one of his own building made out of ancient myths
and modern mysteries, and invites men to ascend it, without
angelic aid. . . . Think you, then, to such a world as
this I have hope to cry and yet be heard and heeded ? I
tell you nay ; and yet the spirit strives with men ; and, if
perchance some stray = and wandering sheep should hear our
voice, and gather to the fold of spiritual truth, our work will
not be vain ; and freighted with that single soul, we may return
to Our heavenly Master, and say, “our work is done.”
THE FRENCH TESTIMONIAL TO MRS. TAPPAN.
The following is Mrs. Tappan’s reply to the French address
to her, which was recently published in these pages :—
London, Nov. 24th, 1873.
Monsieur,—I have had the surprise and pleasure to receive
through your representative in London, Mons. Bocard Boul-
land, your very kind letter of Nov. 5th.
Fellow-worker in the cause of Truth and Immortality,—
esteemed Brother, accept my grateful appreciation of your
kind words. I cannot find language to express to you the
sensations inspired by those noble sentiments, by your cordial
and paternal greeting.
Personally unknown to you, I am aware that not for me, as
an individual, is this beautiful letter intended, but the spirit-
world as expressed through my humble powers.
Imperfect as is the human organism at best, I feel everyday
how-inadequate is this feeble frame to express the thoughts,
and wonderful truths inspired from the world of souls ; yet
such gifts as nature gave me have been cultivated'solely by
my spirit guides, and almost wholly devoted to their use.
Their pupil from childhood, their disciple and follower, to the
acquisition and dissemination of spiritual knowledge, my life
has been, and ever will be dedicated. Mindful of all that
passes in the world, useful, and elevating to man, my guides
teach me to leave the field of material explorations in science
to those savans of earth who so worthily pursue their calling.
My researches must be where my guides direct—in the Realm
of the Spirit—that vast and mysterious kingdom into which
the minds of this world have so rarely been admitted, because,
alas, so few of earth’s enquiring minds have ever sought to
gain an entrance there.
Through you I greet the honourable “ Society for. the Con¬
tinuation of the Spiritual Works of Allan Kardeo.” You are
the worthy followers of a most wonderful mind. In my
472
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 19, 1873.
spirit journeyings with my guides I have seen him. He is
among those advanced souls who seek to redeem the inhabi¬
tants of earth from materialism.
Not through matter pe?' se (as matter) am I taught, has.the
human spirit been developed in the past ages of eternity; but
matter has advanced atom by atom, period by period, until
prepared to receive the epitome of organisation, the human
body—the animal man. Likewise the spirit, immortal in its
past as in its future existence, has been working its way in
various spiritual stages of being, preparatory to its present
expression in the human form. But a small portion of its
wondrous powers and experiences are represented in this
material organism ; they are merely suggested ; but sufficient
is revealed to enable us to determine that its powers are
eternal in existence as they are infinite in possibilities of
unfoldment.
To the Spiritualists of France this is my greeting. Hr others.!
Sisters 1 The minds of the spirit-world are working with one
united effort to break down the barriers of materialism that
environ this world. Let us with one accord aid them.
The minds of earth are engulfed in doubt and scepticism on
the one hand, and bigotry and superstition on the other. Let
us by becoming spiritually unfolded, prove to the world that
our hnorvledge of spiritual existence overcomes all doubt, and
removes all superstition, by kindling anew the flame upon the
ancient altars of human faith. There is discord on earth in
human society ; hatred, and envy, and malice abound. The
nations wage war with one another, and this beautiful globe
is deluged in blood. The angels are united in love. Let us
emulate their example. The societies of beneficent spirits
congregate on the golden plains above, and they descend to
teach us fraternal accord, and to instruct us through good
deeds to establish the “ Kingdom of Heaven ” on earth. Let
us heed their teachings and follbwtheir inspirations,cultivating
those lofty aspirations that will attract to us the most elevated
souls.
The Spiritualists in this world are severed by land and sea,
are of many nationalities, speaking divers tongues, but one
spirit unites them, a bond of mutual interest and affection.
All nations and peoples are one family in the house of our
Father; but a special tie, a fraternity of spirit unites-those
who are seeking for truth and light through this latest revela¬
tion of inspiration to man.
I bear your message wherever I go in England. It will pre¬
cede me To my home , in America. Receive in return the
greetings of my friends in both worlds, and of my guides in
the spirit land who earnestly encourage you to pursue your in¬
vestigations for truth, and who solicit for you the blessings of
guardian spirits of the highest angels, and of the Infinite
Mind who encompasses us all with His love.
With the salutations of a sister in all good words and works,
most sincerely yours, Cora L. V. Tappan.
To Mons. P. G. Leymarie, Editor in Chief, La Revue Spirite.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Some weeks ago attention was called in these pages
to the circumstance, that in several cases the best
proofs of the personal identity of departed spirits have
been given to their surviving relatives, when the
medium has been isolated—shut up in a room by him¬
self. The influence of the thoughts and presence of
the sitters, did not then interfere so much with the
manifestations.
Among the American mediums, Mr. Anderson, the
painting medium, is noted for the production of like¬
nesses of -departed friends of enquirers, so we quote
what The Banner of Light, of November 22nd last, says
about his manifestations, in order to show that they are
accompanied by the feature of isolation of the medium.
The Banner of Light (quoting the Weelcly Mercury)
says:—
“ Mr. Anderson occupies a suite of rooms in the
Hensley Block, directly over the Post-office. The
corner room—large and nicely furnished—is used as a
reception room, parlour and bedroom} while adjoining
is a small unfurnished room, with its only window
darkened with inside shutters, which he calls his
studio.
“ In response to the rap of our reporter, a spare,
middle-aged, pleasant-faced gentleman, with a long,
flowing beard, sprinkled with the frosts of time, came
to the door and bade him welcome. Taking the prof¬
fered seat, they dropped into a pleasant conversation
concerning his work, which soon led to the immediate
object of our reporter’s visit, which was to obtain, if
possible, a sketch of a departed relative, who had left
no picture of himself except in the reporter’s recol¬
lection.
“ Coming at once to the work, Mr. Anderson placed
in the reporter’s hands a large sheet of drawing board,
in the form of a roll, which he requested him to hold
at each end for a few minutes, for the purpose of
charging it with his influence’, then tearing a piece from
one of the corners for the reporter to retain, he retired
to the inner room, closed the door, remarking as he did
so, that it would be their (meaning the invisibles) first
effort at sketching in his new studio. He always speaks
of his work in this manner, taking no credit to himself
therefore, claiming that he is wholly unconscious
during the performance, and is a mere instrument in
the matter.
“ In just seventeen minutes he returned with a life-
size bust of a man, bearing a striking resemblance to
the subject intended. The manner of the artist was
that of a man suddenly awakened from a profound sleep.
The sketch was certainly a wonderful piece of work,
considering the time and manner in which it was per¬
formed. The shading, fine touches, and amount of work
performed upon it could not, it would seem, have been
done by a skilful artist in two days’ time ; and yet there
it was—the work of barely a quarter of an hour, and
no mistake, as the jagged piece torn from the corner
fitted exactly.
“ In finishing up his portraits, he makes no use of
the first sketch, as that is taken simply for recognition,
and to give one an idea as to whether it will suit or
not. If found satisfactory, he takes a new piece of
board, charges it with the influence of the sitter, and
removes a piece from the corner as before, and without
even the first for a copy, proceeds as at first.”
A NEW DISCOVERY IN PHYSICS.
A very interesting new scientific discovery was
brought forward by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., on
Thursday, last week, at a meeting of the Royal Society,
Burlington House. It is of special interest to Spiri¬
tualists, because the experiments are of a nature tend¬
ing to ascertain whether any unknown force pro¬
ceeds from the human body ; and although in this par¬
ticular respect the results are negative, like all such
results, they are useful in limiting the field when fresh
researches are undertaken.
Mr. J. Dalton Hooker (president) occupied the chair
on the occasion, and among the listeners present were
Professor Huxley, Professor G. G. Stokes, Mr. Wil¬
liamson (president of the British Association), Sir
Charles Wheatstone, Mr. C. P. Varley, Mr. C. W.
Siemens, Mr. Warren De La Rue, Mr. Wm. Spottis-
woode, Mr. Webster, Q.C., Mr. Prancis Gallon, Mr.
Frederick Varley, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Mr. Crookes, fixed a pith ball, about the size of a
threepenny-piece, at each end of a piece of glass as fine
as a needle. He then suspended the pith ball inside
a glass bulb, by means of an infinitely fine filament of
glass silk, as shown in the accompanying cut A, in
which the glass fibre is seen hanging down the centre
Dec. 19, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
473
of a glass tube above the bulb. A horizontal ^
section of the bulb and balls is shown at B.
When the bulb was full of air, and the fingers
were made to touch it outside, at the places
marked by the crosses in the cut, the lever
arm with its balls was repelled. There was ap¬
parently nothing surprising in this, since the
warming of the airinside the bulb by the fingers
might be supposed to produce air currents.
When the bulb contained air at a pressure of
30 millimetres, which is an imperfect vacuum
easily obtained by means of a common air-
pump, the pith balls would not move when the
fingers were placed as before, neither would
they move when much greater heat was ap¬
plied to the outside of the bulb. When the
air was still further exhausted by the pro¬
longed action of a Sprengel pump, and the
fingers were placed as before, the lever arm was
violently repelled. Sunlight would drive the
balls round as if they had received a mechanical blow, and
so violently as sometimes to break the suspending thread.
Further experiments proved the effect to be a surface,
phenomenon ; it depends upon the1 mass of the balls
and not upon their weight or the material^ of which
they are made. The effect was also proved to be due
to the absorption of heat, and Mr. Crookes said that he
intended to try an experiment suggested to him by
Professor Maskeline, by fixing two thin plates of tour¬
maline of the same size and weight at the opposite ends
of the lever arm, the one tourmaline being placed at
right angles to the other, in respect to the absorption
by each of polarised light. Then, on permitting polarised
light to play upon the apparatus, there should be a
deflection.
The experiments show that the force indicated by the
apparatus is merely that of radiant heat. Whether the
odic force of Reichenbach would have any effect on the
lever is not known, because the human finger cannot be
placed inside the Sprengel pump vacuum ; it is no use
placing it outside, because according to the statements
of clairvoyants, it plays round any solid object like a
flame, but is slow in passing through it. The best way
we see of overcoming the difficulty, is to allow a bar of
soft iron to enter the bulb horizontally through an air¬
tight tube, and to try whether a deflection can be
obtained when a magnet is placed near the outer end of
the bar of iron. Reichenbach’s sensitives said that the
odic flames from magnets and from the human hand had
the same appearance.
Mebteto.
The Wheel of the Law. Buddhism, illustrated from
Siamese Sources. By Henby Alabaster, Interpreter
to Her Majesty’s Consulate-General in Siam. Lon¬
don : Triibner and Co.
This is one of the most remarkable and interesting
books in connection with religious subjects that we have
met with for a long time, and is written with rare
ability. Buddhism has the largest number of followers
of any religion on the face of the earth, consequently it
wields powerful influence over the thoughts of men.
It is estimated that the number of Buddhists amounts,
at the present time, to about three hundred and sixty-
five millions of men, belonging chiefly to Eastern nations.
The book is divided into three parts. One of these
consists of a translation of a work written by an in¬
telligent Siamese nobleman, in which he sets forth the
teachings of modern Buddhism as accepted by educated
Buddhists, and in which he compares those teachings
with the ethics of many other religions. This intel¬
lectual Buddhism differs somewhat from the Buddhism
of the populace, the modern priests having invented a
large number of dogmatic forms and ceremonies, for
which the ancient religion in its purity is in no way
responsible. Not a few earnest thinkers at the present
day, are of opinion that if all the external forms and
creeds were to be swept away which priesthood has
built around the fundamental truths of the various
great religions of the earth, those religions in their
simplest form, would be very much alike. Not a little
evidence in favour of this idea will be found in the
book before us.
Buddha was a prince who pondered over the woes of
mankind, who thought deeply upon the causes of
human suffering and of human happiness, and who left
his home, his court, and his native land, to lead a life
of meditation and of practical piety. For several
generations his teachings were handed down orally,
from father to son, and the earliest reliable records of
his utterances at present in existence, and which have
never been tampered with, are found in the inscriptions
upon some of the ancient stone monuments of India.
Mr. Alabaster says :—
Our oldest Buddhist records, that cannot have been cor¬
rupted, are the stone-cut edicts of King Asoka, in the third
century before Christ. Asoka, King of Magadha, desiring to
extend the Buddhist religion, had edicts cut in stone in vari¬
ous parts of his dominions, of which several have been dis¬
covered, and deciphered by Prinsep and other scholars. Their
teaching is marvellously simple. In one the king enjoins his
subjects “not to slay animalsin another, “ to plant trees
and dig wells by the roadsides, for the comfort of men and
animals in another he desires “ the appointment of teachers
to superintend morals, and encourage the charitable and those
addicted to virtuein another he orders his subjects “ to
hold quinquennial assemblies for the enforcement of moral
obligations—duty to parents, friends, children, relations,
Brahmans, and Sramanas (Buddhist monks).” “ Liberality is
good, non-injury of living creatures is good ; abstinence from
prodigality and slander is good.” In others he proclaims,
“ The beloved of the gods (himself) does not esteem glory and
fame as of great value ; for it may be acquired by crafty and
unworthy persons.” “ To me there is no satisfaction in the
pursuit of worldly affairs; the most worthy pursuit is the
prosperity of the whole world. My whole endeavour is to be
blameless towards all creatures, to make them happy here
below, and to enable them to attain Swarga (heaven).”
The second part of the book contains a life of Buddha,
and the third part an account of the Phrabat, or Holy
Footprint of Buddha, to wdiich pilgrimages are fre¬
quently made.
Buddha did not trouble himself much about the
beginning of things, because he thought the problem
to be incomprehensible, and of not much value as an
aid to the work of increasing human happiness. He
believed the universe to be governed by fixed laws, and
argued that a future state of existence was necessary to
compensate for the good or evil done by men in this
one. He did not blame men for accepting other teach¬
ings than his own. He threatened them with no ever¬
lasting punishment, but taught that all people who
searched after truth to the best of their ability would
receive their reward. He desired that his followers
should not believe anything on the authority of great
names, on the authority of tradition, on the authority
of priests, or on the authority of sacred books, or on the
authority of the powers that be, but should apply their
own judgment to all religious questions, and accept
474
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 19, 1873.
that only which they saw to be true, and in accordance
with the highest dictates of their intellects and their
consciences.
As an example of some of the teachings of Buddha,
we will quote one of the traditional Buddhist Sutras,
as follows:—
BUDDHA OH EELIGIOUS BELIEF AND LIFE.
On a certain occasion the Lord Buddha led a number of his
disciples to a village of the Kalamachon, where his wisdom,
and merit, and holiness were known. And the Kalamachon
assembled, and did homage to him, and said, “ Many priests
and Brahmins have at different times visited us, and explained
their religious tenets, declaring them to be excellent, but each
abused the tenets of every one else, whereupon we are in doubt
as to whose religion is right, and whose wrong ; but we have
heard that the Lord Buddha teaches an excellent religion,
and we beg that we may be freed from doubt, and learn the
truth.’1
And the Lord Buddha answered, “You were right to
doubt, for it was a doubtful matter. I say unto all of you, do
not believe in what ye have heard ; that is when you have
heard any one say this is especially good or extremely bad ;
do not reason with yourselves, that if it had not been true, it
would not have been asserted, and'so believe in its truth.
Neither have faith in traditions, because they have been handed
down for many generations and in many places.
“ Do not believe in anything because it is rumoured and
spoken of by many; do not think that it is a proof of its
truth.
“ Do not believe merely because the written statement of
some old sage is produced; do not be sure that the writing
has ever been revised by the said sage, or can be relied on.
Do not believe in what you have fancied, nor think that be¬
cause an idea is extraordinary it must have been implanted
by a Dewa, or some wonderful being.
“ Do not believe in guesses, that is, assuming something at
hap-hazard as a starting point, and draw your conclusions
from it, reckoning your two, and your three, and your four,
oefore you have fixed your number one.
“ Do not believe because you think there is analogy, that there
is a suitability in things and occurrences, such as believing
there must be walls of the world, because you see water in a
basin, or that Mount Meru must exist, because you have seen
the reflection of trees, or that there must be a creating God,
becauses houses and towns have builders.
“ Do not believe in the truth of that to which you have be¬
come attached by habit, as every nation believes in the
superiority of its own dress and ornaments and language.
“Do not believe because your informant appears to be a
credible person, as for instance, when you see anyone having
a very sharp appearance, conclude he must be clever and
trustworthy: or when you see anyone who has powers and
abilities beyond what men generally possess, believe in what
he tells. Or think that a great nobleman is to be believed, as
he would not be raised by the king to high station unless he
were a good man.
ff Do not believe merely on the authority of your teachers
and masters, or believe and practice, because they believe and
practice.
“ I tell you all, you must of your own selves know that this
is evil, this is punishable, this is censured by wise men; belief
in this will bring no advantage to one, but will cause sorrow.
And when you know this, then eschew it.
“ I say to all of you dwellers in this village, answer me this:
Lopho, that is covetousness; Thoso, that is anger and savage¬
ness; and Moho, that is ignorance and folly. When any or
all of these arise in the hearts of men, is the result beneficial
or the reverse?”
And they answered, “ It is not beneficial, 0 Lord.”
Then the Lord continued, “Covetous, passionate, and
ignorant men destroy life, and steal, and commit adultery, and
tell lies, and indite others to follow their example. Is it not
so ?”
And they answered, “ It is as the Lord says.”
And he continued, “'Covetousness, passion, ignorance, the
destruction of life, theft, adultery, and lying—are these good
or bad, right or wrong ? Do wise men praise or blame them ?
Are they not unprofitable, and causes of sorrow? ”
And they replied, “ It is as the Lord has spoken.’’
And the Lord said, “ For this I said to you, do not believe,
merely because you have heard, but when of your own
consciousness you know a thing to be evil, abstain from it.”
And then the Lord taught of that which is good, saying,
“ If any of you know of yourselves that anything is good and
not evil, praised by wise men, advantageous, and productive
of happiness, then act abundantly according to your belief.
Now I ask you, Alopho, absence of covetousness ; Athoso,
absence of passion ; Amolo, absence of folly; are these profit¬
able or not ? ”
And they answered, “ Profitable.”
The Lord continued, “ Men who are not covetous, or
passionate, or foolish, will not destroy life, nor steal, nor
commit adultery, nor tell lies. Is it not so ? ”
And they answered, “ It is as the Lord says.”
Then the Lord asked, “ Is freedom from covetousness,
passion, and folly; from destruction of life, theft, adultery,
and lying ; good or bad, right or wrong, praised or blamed
by wise men, profitable and tending to happiness or not ? ”
And they replied, “ It is good, right, praised by the wise,
profitable, and tending to happiness.”
And the Lord said, “For this I taught you not to believe
merely because you have heard, but when you believed of
your own consciousness,' then to act accordingly, and
abundantly.”
And the Lord continued, “The holy man must not be
covetous, or revengeful, or foolish, and he must be versed in
the four virtuous inclinations (Phrommawihan), which are :—
Meta, desiring for all living things the same happiness which
one se*ks for one’s self ; Karuna, training the mind, in com¬
passion towards all living things, desiring that they may
escape all sorrows, either in hell or in other existences, just as
a man who sees his friend ill, desires nothing so much as his
recovery; Muthita, taking pleasure in all living things, just
as playmates are glad when they see one another ; and
Ubekkha, keeping the mind balanced and impartial, with no
affection for one more than another. ”
The following is another interesting extract from the
book :—
THE TEMPTATION OF BUDDHA.
Bising from his throne, he inquired who was on guard at
the door. It was Channa. To him the Grand Being gave
orders immediately to prepare his horse.
His horse was the splendid Kanthaka, thirty feet in length;
his coat white and lustrous as a well-polished couch-shell, his
head black as the black sapphire, his mane soft and delicate,
his power enormous—a horse fit to be the bearer of a sovereign
of the world. And Kanthaka knew wherefore he was re¬
quired, and neighed loudly with delight, yet was not his
neighing heard, for an angel prevented the noise spreading (lest
it might awaken the guards, and so prevent the prince leaving).
And while Channa was preparing his horse, the prince,
reflecting on the uncertainty of his return, determined to have
one look at his son before setting out.
He stood at the door of the Queen’s chamber, and lovingly
gazed at her sleeping with her child in her arms. He, too,
longed to embrace his son, yet refrained from the fear that the
mother might wake, and prevent him carrying out his purpose
of stealing away from the palace. He stood at the door, and
longingly, lovingly, continued to look at his child, until his
thoughts showed him his error. “ How can I continue to live
thus,” he reflected; “ how can I live, loving my wife and
child, and at the same time escape the evils of circling exist¬
ence? It is impossible! If I remain with them, I shall
never attain omniscience. I will away at once ; and when I
have attained all knowledge, I can return to visit my rela¬
tions.” And so thinking he turned away.
Then he addressed his horse, “ Help me, O Kanthaka! to
enter the class of mendicants this very night!” and the horse
was delighted. He mounted the horse, Channa held on to its
tail, and the four guardians of the world held lotus flowers,
one under each of the horse’s feet.
Now the King, thinking to prevent his son’s flight, had
caused the gates of the palace to be covered with iron plates,
studded with mushroom headed nails, and they were of im¬
mense weight, so that they could be opened only bj' the united
efforts of many men. Yet these heavy gates would not have
stayed him. Had it been necessary he would have jumped
over them ; but it was not necessary, for the guardian angels
of the gate opened it.
Then the King of the Maras, the Evil One, trembled as he
thought of the Prince passing those gates, for he knew that if
he entered the religious profession, he would rise beyond his
power, and he determined to prevent him. Descending,
therefore, from his abode in the highest of the Dewa heavens,
and floating in the air, he cried—
Dec. 19, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIS.T.
475
“ Lord, that art capable of such vast endurance, go not
forth to adopt a religious life, but return to thy kingdom, and
in seven days thou shalt become an emperor of the world,
ruling over the four great continents.”
He that should become Buddha heard the voice. “ Who
art thou ? ” he cried ; and the voice answered, “ I am Wasa-
wadi, the King of the Maras.’’
“ Take heed, O Mara ! ” replied the Grand Being ; ” I also
know that in seven days I might gain universal empire, but I
have no desire for such possessions. I know that the pursuit
of religion is better than the empire of the world. See how
the world is moved, and quakes with praise of this my entry
on a religious life 1 I shall obtain the glorious omniscience,
and shall teach the wheel of the Jaw, that all teachable beings
may free themselves from trausmigratory existence. You,
thinking only of the lusts of the flesh, would force me to
leave all beings to wander without guide into your power.
Avaunt! Get thee away far from me.”
Deeply vexed was the King of the Maras, as he listened to
these words. “Vain will be my effopts,” he reflected, ‘‘if
Sidharta perseveres. Yet, perchance, he will not be able to
free himself from the lusts of the flesh—hatred and envy—
and then my opportunity will come ! ” So he withdrew to a
short distance, and watched without ceasing, that he might
seize the first occasion that presented itself.
The Grand Being left his palace on the middle day of the
sixth month. The lovely full moon shone without a speck ;
and the earth, flooded with its rays, appeared like a sea of
gleaming white milk. The angels of the ten thousand
worlds illuminated the spheres with the bright lights of
heaven.
As he rode along, he thought of the city he had left, and
desired once more to see it. Then the earth, which was neither
life nor intelligence, appeared endowed with both; and
turning round, as does a potter’s wheel, it brought the city
directly in front of him. Gazing on the city of Kapila, he
invoked its guardian angels, saying, “ Angels of yon glorious
city, listen to my vow ? Never will I return hither while I
have not achieved omniscience, and my heart is yet subject to
lust, passion, and folly. But when I have attained the mastery
of the most excellent law, when I am surrounded by the crowd
of saints, then will I return 1’’
The place where this occurred became famous, and a spire
was erected there by the name of Kanthaka niwatana Chedi.
The whole book is full of arguments upon some of
the deepest religious questions of this and past ages;
it is full of information about Buddha and his life, and
its general style is very readable.
(EoTOgpmrtience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
PUEE THEISM.
Sir,—A worthy Spiritualist, whose name is not unknown to
the readers of this periodical, remonstrated with me some
twelve months ago, respecting the absurdity of worshipping
the Father, through Christ, or any indirect channel, on the
ground that the obvious dictate of common sense was to
venerate and hold communion with the great First Cause
li imself alone.
I find, however, on further inquiry, that any guidance upon
this subject is most difficult to obtain, because Unitarians and
those who profess ‘‘Pure Theism,” evidently do not analyse
their thoughts when exercised in worship, and are addicted to
the practice of endowing their Deity with some bodily form
as that of a Great Being who is the centre of all power and
fountain of all good. This, however, is manifestly a serious
mistake on their part, because they are either guilty of
degrading the omnipresent Spirit into a mere idol of their
own imagination, or they stand in the pitiable position of
Peter, who, whilst he held fast to the “ God manifest in the
flesh,” yet denied His name at the Hall of Judgment.
I have no desire to discuss this question upon scriptural
grounds until I first see my way out of a difficulty presented
by reason, and to which a rational answer must be given
before revelation of any kind is called to our aid.
The difficulty to which I refer is that of forming any
reasonable conception, however shadowy, of what is that
which is to be the object of a Theist’s worship. 1 sincerely
hope your readers will bear with me when I attempt to lead
them to some conception of the Great Spirit in my own way,
and that they will not, in the attempt, so nearly realise the
terrors of insanity as I have often done.
The amazing exactitude of astronomical science forbids the
admission of the smallest doubt respecting the dictum that
no combination of human figures, and no effort of the most
highly-cultivated mind can realise in any way the vastness of
the distances which intervene between our speck of earth and
the nearest member of the stellar heavenly host. There is
unity of design in all this boundless field, and nothing to
indicate the presence of any second or disturbing cause. It
is, therefore, manifestly under one First Cause, and the one
Ruling Spirit pervades-all space.
Of course I am aware there are many feeble, flabby minds
who take refuge in the belief that the Father, having set
the big machine agoing, sits away on a throne of glory, and
leaves the grand “ ferment ” to work itself right in obedience
to natural laws, buC this, when viewed in the light of common
sense, is obviously nonsense, because neither an Act of Parlia¬
ment nor any other law can operate unless the power which
made it, directly or indirectly, enforces its application in
every instance.
Well, then, say those persons, the laws of nature are carried
cut by forces which act in obedience to the Great Spirit, but
this is only increasing the difficulty, because the Great Spirit
must either be omnipresent, and the prime mover in every
detailed action of universal nature, or else must stand at the
back of a boundless number of spiritual forces, sustaining and
keeping them to their task.
Natural law—shirk it how we may—is nothing less than
the working of an ever-present omnipotent Spirit, whose
uniformity of action in the visible universe has been classified
by man under certain law's.
Man can make a clock, wind it up, and leave it to work
out its round of duty in accordance with certain laws, and
from this he concludes that the Great Spirit, seated in some
imaginary point of glory, to which he turns his praying vision,
can do so too, but he forgets that in his small clockwork he
has simply utilised the forces placed before him by the great
spirit, and that without a daily, hourly, and perpetually sus¬
taining power by the same spirit his clockwork wheels would
cease to move.
“ God is a spirit, and they that worship Him must worship
Him in spirit and in truth.” For this reason the recitation of a
mere form of wordsds of no avail, and nothing but communion
of spirit can constitute true worship. To anyone, however
having a full consciousness of the infinity of the spirit of the
universe, any such communion with, or worship of the Father,
in the abstract, is simply impossible, and prayer becomes, in its
reaction on the worshipper, like the despairing unheeded cries
of one wrho looks around him in vain for sympathy and help
in the centre of a lonely desert.
If one common characteristic of every form of human
worship in every age, amongst all races of men, may be taken,
by reason of its universality, as sustained by the sanction of
common sense, then the universal leaning towards some
embodiment of divine attributes found in all systems of
idolatrous worship, proves, beyond a doubt, that the common
sense of man is in perfect harmony with the wisdom of the
first cause in seeking a God manifest in the flesh, such true
Christians believe to have been sent.
I conclude, therefore, that whilst pure Theism is a pure
delusion, reason is amply satisfied by our Christian faith in a
God manifested in human form. M. I. C. E.
SUPPRESSIO VERI, ET FALSA DEDUCTIO.
Sir,—In your issue of November 21st, page 411, I find the
following, under the title of “Philosophical Objections to
Spiritualism ” :—
(J. H. Levy, loquitur') : “ The Chairman of the Dialectical
Committee then said to Signor Damiani, * How can you dis¬
tinguish between a medium who is an impostor and a spirit
that is a-liar?’ Signor Damiani replied, ‘You cannot; but
in that case it was the spirit that was lying.’-”
(Mr. J. H. Levy, prosequitur): “ For a man to say, one
cannot tell the difference between the two, and in the same
breath add that there mas a difference), was a most illogical
thing.”
Of course that would have been illogical, very. But why
did Mr. J. H. Le^y complacently stop at the word “ lying,”
instead of quoting my whole proposition, which ended in these
words :—“ Mrs. Marshall would have had no object in telling
me an absurd story about Livingstone being killed, boiled,
476
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 19, 1873.
and eaten.” (Report of Committee of Dialectical Society, p.
204.) Had he done so, he would not have had to proclaim
Signor Damiani’s illogicalness to the world.
Mr. J. H. Levy stands now committed on the horns Of this
dilemma—Either he cannot read a book properly, or he is
wanting in candour. In either case, I congratulate all the
learned societies to which Mr. J. H. Levy may belong for
possessing so candid an historian, or so sagacious a reader in
their midst. Oh ! what felicity, if the statements of the op¬
ponents of Spiritualism were always in perfect accordance
with facts.
I cannot conclude this correction, without expressing my
great astonishment at seeing men like Mr. Shorter, Mr.
Leighton, and other intelligent Spiritualists, condescend to
discuss Spiritualism with such opponents of it as they en¬
countered at South-place Chapel, Finsbury, and whose
acuteness of intellect and knowledge of the subject was
only surpassed by their suavity of manners. Would it not
be more profitable to go and descant on literature with the
inhabitants of Lapland ? G. Damiani.
Naples, December 7th, 1873.
LEGAL PERSECETIOIf OF ENGLISH MEDIUMS.
Sir,—Permit me to call your readers’ attention to the fol¬
lowing extract from the Manchester Examiner and Times of
Dec. 5th :—
“ Spiritualism and its manifestations exercise such a power¬
ful fascination over certain minds, that any rude interference
with this form of enjoyment would cause them serious alarm.
Perhaps, however, they will not consider they have any
grounds for apprehension by the application of the following
business-like ‘ test,’ which a correspondent suggests to us :—
‘ While so many well-meaning people associate to put an end
to the traffic in spirits and other liquors, is it not strange that
no public-spirited men come forward to repress another sort of
spirit traffic which is a far less doubtful evil. Cannot the
whole question of ‘ Spiritualism’ be forever disposed of by one
well-organised test case, in the form of a prosecution for ob¬
taining money on false pretences ? Is'it right that wretched
old women should be punished for doing awkwardly what
cleverer people do well and with impunity and profit ?. Can the
police not interfere ? If not, a society could easily bring
technical knowledge and law7 to bear,' and honest conjurors
would certainly lend their services gratis.’ ”
I think it would not be at all a bad means of bringing
Spiritualism, once for all, prominently before the public, if
some “ public spirited man” would be kind enough to adopt
the suggestion of the above paper. At any rate it is a con¬
tingency which Spiritualists ■ should be prepared for. Sup¬
posing any medium in a provincial tow7n were prosecuted for
obtaining money by false pretences would the National Asso¬
ciation be prepared to take action in the matter ? The defence
of a medium could best be undertaken by a barrister, who is
himself a believer, or at any rate well up in the subject, and
as there are scarcely any such in the provincial towns, it would
be well for the London Association to make arrangements for
some Spiritualist at the bar to undertake a journey into the
provinces on such a mission whenever occasion arises. It
would not always follow that the truth or otherwise of Spiri¬
tualism might be raised in such a prosecution, for the ques¬
tion might simply be one of fact:—“ Did the medium cheat?”
Should this be the issue, it would merely be one of the credi¬
bility of the witnesses, w7ith a strong bias against the unfortu¬
nate medium in the eyes of the magistrates, who would
naturally be prepared to assume that all mediums were cheats.
To rebut this assumption it would be necessary (if the bench
allowed it) to call evidence to prove that the medium in ques¬
tion was really a genuine medium, a fact which could only be
testified to by a limited number of local Spiritualists, the most
prominent of whom (being at the same time those whose
testimony would carry the most weight) would probably
shrink from the ordeal. It is not difficult, therefore, to fore¬
see'what the fate of the unfortunate medium would be.
Should it in such case be possible (which is very doubtful)
to introduce evidence to prove that mediumship in general
(regardless of the mediumship of the particular medium under
prosecution) is a genuine phenomenon, we should then have
much less to fear, as no doubt some of the leading Spiritualists
would, if solicited so to do, come forward to give evidence. I
think this question is one which the National Association
should take in hand, for it is clear that unless the Association
can supply the necessary funds for such a defence, it would
be impossible for the poor mediums—who will have to bear
the brunt of the attack—to do so.
A much more satisfactory proceeding would probably be for
some leading Spiritualist to take action for libel against some
of the newspapers which lend themselves to the publication
of libels upon Spiritualists. Here is a good specimen from
an advertisement in the Manchester Courier, of Dec. 5th,
evidently aimed at Dr. Sexton :—
“ Herr Dobler v. Sexton.—‘ There is this great difference
between any prominent spiritualist and Herr Dobler—the
former is a humbug but certainly no conjurer, while the la'ter
is a conjurer but not the least bit a humbug.’—Manchester Free
Lance, October 3rd.”
I can quite imagine that the learned Doctor may well afford
to ignore the opinions of men like Dobler, and papers like the
Free Lance (a small local sheet) ; but it would be worth the
while of the National Association to consider whether a pro¬
secution for libel in a similar case to the foregoing might not
give a wholesome stimulus to the cause. All the papers in the
kingdom would give publicity to it gratis, and as an adver¬
tisement alone it would be invaluable to Spiritualism by
reason of the array of names of'known scientific reputation,
it might be possible to bring forward in support of the ques¬
tion at issue. Fritz.
Manchester, Dec. 5th, 1873.
[In its eirly stages the success of the National Association will depend
much upon its being a truly representative institution, whose chief func¬
tion is the economical expenditure of the public funds of Spiritualism and
the publication of regular balance-sheets. Consequently, if it were to begin
its work by bringing an aggressive action at law, however just the case, its
supporters would desert it, frtm the deeply-rooted belief in the public
mind that it is better to submit to any amount of injustice or money loss,
rather than to incur the greater financial loss usually incidental to litiga¬
tion. After very short litigation the chief point of interest to litigants is
commonly not the original issue, but “ Who will have to. pay the legal
costs ? ” A barrister told us the other day that he could by law recover a
moderately heavy sum of money due to him, but as litigating the case would
cost him twice the amount, he preferred that the wrongful owner should
retain possession of the sum.—Ed.]
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN DUBLIN.
Sir,—As Dublin is, perhaps, of all cities in the United
Kingdom the most behindhand in all things relating to
Spiritualism, perhaps it would not be inappropriate to let you
know of a few seances at which I was present lately in this city.
There is not, I believe, such a thing in Dublin as a pro¬
fessional medium, and any manifestations in which I have
taken part have been conducted altogether by private indi¬
viduals, to whom it could bring no gain whatsoever to practise
delusion or deceit. I am myself merely an investigator, and
though I cannot bring to my aid the many resources of
science, yet I flatter myself that I am not wanting in a
quality which is not possessed by every one, and that quality
is common sense. I will now lay before you the true account
of some manifestations which occurred in my presence.
On a night early in last November, I and a lady nearly
related to me, who before this had taken little interest in such
matters, sat down at a walnut work-table, in a subdued light.
After remaining about an hour at the table, I was seized with
a paralytic movement which passed through my whole body,
followed by an extreme faintness, so great, that I was obliged
to leave the table, and walk about the room to restore myself.
Almost immediately after this the table commenced a rotary
motion, slow at first, but increasing in swiftness as it
proceeded. It went through several performances, such as
oscillating, bowing, and gliding about the room. I then
asked if the spirit would give any communication, and
received a tilt of the table in answer. Immediately the lady’s
hanji was violently agitated, and moved as though writing in
the air. Upon a pencil being placed in her hand, it com¬
menced writing with a rapidity almost impossible to follow.
First the pencil wrote a name, which was that of a female
relative lately deceased; and then commenced a long letter,
containing messages to several relations, texts of Scripture,
and some statements relative to the medium of an unpleasant
nature. Whatever I requested the pencil to do it did, but
would not obey the wishes of the lady, through whom it
wrote. Its letter was, in my humble opinion, a far more
clear and sensible one than some I have seen said to be
written in the presence of professed mediums, by direct
communication.
On the day after these occurrences, in the broad daylight
(I mention this, because I have heard it urged lately, that
Spiritual manifestations are limited to the dark, or to a
subdued light), the lady above mentioned was in the room
containing the table, with a female servant. In jest, she went
over and placed her hands on the table ; to her surprise, no
sooner had she done so than the table glided at a rapid rate
THE SPIRITUALIST.
477
Dec. 19, 1873.
to the centre of the room. After performing various move¬
ments, the table went over to another one, of large dimen¬
sions, which occupied the centre of the room, on which lay a
Bible, and having moved underneath it, by a curious
thumping motion, the smaller table moved the book on its
surface.
I will only adduce one more example, as I know your space
is valuable. In about a week after this I, the medium, and
another lady relation, sat down at the small table. We all
felt an intense drowsiness, and almost immediately the table
moved. It laid itself down on the ground, got up again,
threw off its lid, which was loose, and bending down, put it
on again. It then told us, that if w'e went to the large table
which stood in the centre of the room, that it would move it
in one minute. We obeyed, and had just been at it the time
specified, when it moved across the room. At this stage of
the proceedings, a gentleman, who is a thorough disbeliever
in Spiritualism, entered the room. No sooner had he done
so, than the table, w'hich was near the centre, rushed violently
to the door, as if to intercept his entrance, and barred him up
in a corner. Then, in his presence, and for the first time in
our experience, raps were heard on the centre and legs of the
table, at first indistinct, but afterwards louder. Upon the
spirit announcing that it was not good, we all left the room.
This is the last seance I have attended. I can solemnly affirm
that there was no trickery whatsoever in these manifestations,
and that most of them appeared in the daylight.
H. J. Carmichael.
8, Sandfgrd Avenue, Ranelagh, Dublin.
madame Louise’s mediumship.
Sir,—Referring to the letters which appeared in your
last issue signed C. Reimers and Louise, and purporting to
have been written by those persons, it suffices for me that
Madame Louise has nob accepted my offer. I cannot take
any further notice of the remarks in those letters, than merely
to say that they are of the same quality as the manifestations
which took place at the, two seances I had with Madame
Louise, with this difference only, that the remarks are
gratuitous, but the manifestations cost three guineas the lot.
16, South Castle-street, Liverpool, David B. Ramsay.
4th December, 1873.
[This controversy is drifting into personalities on both sides, so must
end here.—Ed.]
Sir,—If there is truth in Spiritualism, or, to reduce the
term to mere practical issue, in so-called spiritual phenomena,
the careful, untiring critical observation of pretended mediums
should be the first duty of every investigator, and the most
liberal and kind protection the next, when genuineness is
established. This is the principle which guided me in watch¬
ing the manifestations of Madame Louise’s mediumship, and
the kindly disposition on your part to open your columns for
my contributions in this direction, tells me that I am on the
right road. On the occasion of Dr. Sexton’s visit, we arranged
a \eance after the last splendid lecture (Sunday) of that gifted
gentleman, and although late in the evening, received some
beautiful manifestations, which may be worth recording. Our
circle consisted this time, of fourteen members, including
Dr. Sexton, Mrs. Hesketh and two daughters, Mr. Ellis,
Madame Louise and son, and several others. The table was
this time enlarged, and the guitar, &c.,.placed in the centre,
and after joining hands and light being out, the guitar went
round playing and touching nearly all of us. Of course this is
the old often repeated manifestation, but the distance the
instrument travelled, and its playful manner in touching, for
instance, Mr. Ellis, and the numerous responses to my sing¬
ing, eliciting a hearty appreciation after this little music
lesson, made it highly interesting. Then Madame Louise
went into the cabinet, bound in the same way I stated in my
last report. After some time Bertie appeared, filling with the
drapery all the aperture, and the face was seen pretty plainly.
The medium, after coming out of trance, was set free from
the tying, and sat again, and I think it is noteworthy to point
out, that under these circumstances (no test) the appearance
of the same face required the same, if not longer time, than
before. The power was not strong enough. Dr. Sexton ex-
pi’essed himself highly satisfied, and we all enjoyed this short
seance thoroughly.
Dr. Sexton’s lectures in Hulme Town-hall were fairly at¬
tended, and would have drawn crowded houses but for the
silence of the press, in spite ot a sufficient number of re¬
porters having been invited. This silence may be explained
by the want of points of attack on Spiritualism, which our
press so greedily takes hold of. I think, however, this silence
is a sign of progress. 0. Reimers.
December 8th, 1873.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—In your last issue you say when he (John Watt) first
began to manifest, his voice was so much like Mrs. Everitt’s,
as to cause her considerable annoyance. Mrs. Everitt wishes
me to say that this is a mistake, and that she has never feltfit
to be an annoyance, but when listening to it she could never
perceive the least resemblance to her own. I certainly have
never heard her say that the voice appeared to herself like her
own, although for the first three months of his audible utter¬
ances, some sentences and pronunciations greatly resembled in
sound Mrs. Everitt’s voice, so much so that I have asked her
if she was quite sure that John did not make use of her organs
of speech. She has invariably replied, “ I am quite certain
he does not while I am in my normal state.”
John has always said from his first communicating with us
that he does not use any of the bodily organs of his medium,
but that he forms an apparatus from the emanations of the
persons present, corresponding to lungs, throat, and lips. He
has also said that he makes use of the medium’s breath, and I
think he collects it before it leaves the body, for this
reason: he has sometimes tapped her on the head with a
roll of paper, and told her to be quiet; persons have noticed
it, and remarked that she did not speak. “ No,” she answered,
“but I was going to, and my breath was caught so that
I could not get out the words.” She has many times expe¬
rienced this catching of the breath in the throat when about
to speak, and has noticed many times that there has been no
sound to her words, although her lips have moved in the
ordinary way of speaking. This, of course, has only taken
place while John is actually talking. Your other questions
I will answer at my earliest convenience ; in the meantime,
will some of your other readers who are acquainted with
voice mediums, and who have the opportunity of hearing
their experiences from the lips of these peculiar human beings
themselves, add to our information, so that we may compare
notes as we go along, and see if the experiences of mediums
are uniform. T. Everitt.
Hendon, N.W.
[Our remarks referred to the. direct voice. Two organ tubes, or two
resonant cavities of the same size and shape inside, will give the same
sound, all other conditions being equal; and the same rule applies to the
vocal organs of human beings. The early experiences of most other voice
mediums in this country were the same as Mrs. Everitt’s.—Ed.]
MRS. JENCKEN’S MEDIUMSHIP.
LAST Sunday night, by invitation of Mrs. Jencken, there
was a gathering of friends at the residence of Mr. Jencken,
barrister-at-law, 53, Brompton-crescent, Brompton, to cele¬
brate the anniversary of his marriage day. In the course of a
very happy evening, the following message was given by a
spirit, named Tayior, through the mediumship of Mrs. Jencken
(Kate Fox) about another gathering, which was being held at
the residence of her sister, Mrs. M. Kane, on the same evening,
at New York, in remembrance of the same event : —
“ We have not met here to-night for manifestations, but for
the purpose of celebrating an occasion sacred always. We have
also been with the circle at Maggie's [Mrs. Kane’s, New York],
the members of which were my wife, Robert Murray, Dr. Taylm',
Mr. Ogden, Mrs. Baker and Mr. Baker, a young German, Mr.
Biselle, and Sarah Charters. We said a farewell to them, and
told them who were present here. We have a benediction to leave
ivithyou to-night. May thecoming year openbrightlyfor you. May
God bless yon ! May your child be a blessing to you in all
things! When shadows fall upon you, think of the brighter
side, think of the life beyond, and trust in God. Bear with
each other ; study charity ; look on the bright side of all things,
and never give way to dark thoughts. One and all God ble s
■you! With this circle we could do much, mere we permitted
to have good conditions. All is well. Dr. B—, George, you
hive been a good jriend of Katie's, and you receive blessings
from us in many ways. We mill meet you in a month from
to-day. J. B. T."
A few weeks will show whether these novel Atlantic tele¬
graphic messages are reliable.
We have not permission to publish the names of the friends
present, so give initials—Mr. M. T. and Mrs. M. T., Dr. G. B.
and Miss B., Major-General—, Mr. W. H. H., and the host
and hostess, Mr. and Mrs. Jencken.
478
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 19, 1873.
Subscriptions in aid of the Spiritualist fund should he
remitted to Mr. T. W. Taunton (treasurer), Hill-house, Yer-
sailles-road, Norwood. A fresh list of more recent subscrip¬
tions received, will be published soon.
Spirit Forms.—Miss Cook has been very ill and ner¬
vous since the outrage printed in the last number of this
journal, but last Tuesday night was well enough to give $
seaitce to a large and influential company of friends, at the
residence of Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore, J.P,, 16, Gloucester-square,
Hyde-park, W. Neither she nor her friends entered the dark
room to be used as a cabinet before the seance began, and all
the gentlemen present, including Mr. W. Crookes, F.B.S ,
searched it. There being a second door to the room, a
short-piece of thick wire was passed through the keyhole,
after the door was locked, and pieces of thick metal sol¬
dered to the opposite ends of the wire, thus upsetting any
theory that a person could get in with a duplicate key.
The window was firmly secured in many ways. All the ladies
of the party, including, among others, Mrs. Honywood, Mrs.
Crookes, and Mrs. Tappan, searched the medium in a bed¬
room before she entered the seance room, where she was bound
and tied down as usual, and the knots sealed with the signet¬
ring of Mr. Crookes. Katie came out in flowing white robes
and bare feet, in the usual way, and wherever the white robes
came from, it is certain that they did not get into the seance
room by any method known to any living mortal. The knots
and seals were intact after Katie retired. A most extraordinary
physical test was given to Mr. Crookes, which will first be pub¬
lished elsewhere; so we refrain, by request, from giving the
particulars at present.
Extraordinary Hallucination.—A singular circum¬
stance came to light in the Bristol Police-court on Tuesday.
Mr,. Thomas B. Cumpston and his wife, Mrs. Ann Martha
Cumpston, of Virginia-road, Leeds, were brought up for being
disorderly at the Victoria Hotel and with letting off fire-arms.
It was stated in evidence by the landlady of the hotel, Mrs.
Tongue, that the defendants took an apartment at the hotel
on Monday evening, and retired to rest about twelve o’clock.
About four o’clock in the morning she was .awoke by loud
screams and shouts in their bed-room, succeeded by a report
of fire-arms. She went down and found that they had both
leapt from their bed-room into the yard below—a depth of
upwards of twelve feet—and then made their way to the rail¬
way station opposite. Mr. T. Harker, the night superintendent
on the Bristol and Exeter Railway, said the parties rushed
into his office partly dressed, crying out “ Murder,” and they
were in a terrible state of excitement.- They told him they
had escaped from a den of rogues and thieves, and they had
to^defend themselves. They were under the impression that
someone was following them, and they made him search the
waiting-room to see there was no one there. Upon his sending
for a policeman, Mr. Cumpston was searched, add a revolver
and three knives were found upon him. When asked by the
magistrate what, he had to say in explanation of the matter,
Mr. Cumpston, who had an impediment in his speech, said he
and his wife had been staying at Clifton, but, intending to
proceed to Weston-super-Mare that morning, they came down
and engaged a room at the Victoria Hotel, being near the
railway station. They were alarmed at about four o’clock in
the morning by terrible noises which they could not explain,
and which frightened them very much. The bed seemed to
open, and did all sorts of strange things. The floor, too,
opened, and they heard voices. They were so terrified that
they opened their bedroom window and leapt out. Mrs.
Cumpston, also, gave her version of the affair. She said they
heard terrible noises at about four o’clock in the morning.
The floor seemed to be giving way. It certainly opened, and
her husband fell down some distance, and she tried to get him
up. What they said was repeated every time they spoke.
Being very much frightened she asked her husband to fire off
his pistol, which he did, into, the ceiling. - The noises con¬
tinuing, they got out of the window, but.she did not know
how. ’When they got outside she asked her husband to fire
off his pistol again. They then ran up to the railway station.
In reply to the Bench, the lady said she did not hear the
noises so plainly as her husband. Ultimately, a Mr. Butt, who
had been telegraphed for from Gloucester, attended the Court,
and in reply to the Bench said the parties occupied a very
good position in Leeds. He offered to take proper charge of
them if they were handed over to him, which was ultimately
done, the defendants being discharged from custody. No ex¬
planation can be given of this strange affair, and the belief is
that it was an hallucination on the part of the husband.—The
Timeq, Dec, 11th, 1873.
A genuine case of a medium being carried three miles
public.
On Wednesday evening, last week, at Mrs. Tappan’s
lecture at Gower-street, under the presidency of Mr. Enmore
Jones, there was some little disturbance, in consequence of a
gentleman insisting upon opening theological questions, when
the meeting had been called to consider only those relating to
science. There was a prolonged scene_of contention.
The Dalston Association.—Mrs. M. E. Tebb has been
elected a life member of the Dalston Association of Enquirers
into Spiritualism. The individual who committed the out¬
rage at Mr. Cook’s was also proposed as a member, in fulfil¬
ment of a previous promise, but as nobody seconded the
proposition, he was not elected, and his subscription, which
he had left with the secretary, was. returned to him. Thurs¬
day,' the 25th inst., being Christmas-day, the rooms of the
Dalston Association will be closed. A special session of the
council was summoned last night, to consider a motion for
| a public lecture by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, in the early part
of next year. The council approved of the suggestion to
appoint a committee of members for inquiry into the science
of mesmerism, which will be incorporated in their ensuing
report, and fully considered at the seventh half-yearly general
meeting in January next.
The National Association.—The organising work of
the National Association of Spiritualists is going on as rapidly
as the important nature of the work will permit, and new and
valuable members are being steadily elected either upon the
Council, or as members. The drafting of the prospectus is
nowin the hands of the sub-committee. Much gratitude is due
to Mr. Everitt, the president of the Liverpool Conference, for the
earnest and faithful way in which he has carried out the public
wishes, as expressed at the Liverpool meeting, with regard to
the formation and constitution of a National Association.
The promoters of the movement have recognised neither sect
nor party, nor clique, but have invited all representative
Spiritualists who are favourable to friendly union and the
sinking of theological disputes when dealing with business
matters, to join in the work. The whole undertaking is
based upon public, and not private grounds, and recognises
the principle of election of officers by subscribers, conse¬
quently it merits that strong support which it is now receiving
in its incipient stages. Honorary corresponding members in
foreign countries are being appointed as expeditiously as the
rapidity otthe postal service will permit.)
Financial.—The Medium newspaper has published a
requisition for Spiritualists co pay for its proprietor this year
£200 losses over sale, £150 manager’s salary, about £100 for
shorthand work, and say £100 for assistants, publishing, and
miscellaneous expenses; total, about £550. Heavy sums have
similarly been obtained in preceding years, partly by public
requisition, and partly by running into debt by non-fulfilment
of promises and of contracts. If, during the four past years,
about £2,000 of the public money, obtained in this way, has
been put into one spiritual journal, we submit that the Spiri¬
tualist, which could not possibly adopt the same course, has
been fined very many hundreds of pounds by the unfair compe¬
tition. These heavy sums have been paid. Four years ago,
when there was no newspaper in Spiritualism, and
the want of one was mentioned from our public plat¬
forms, the Spiritualist came first into the field as a
fortnightly journal with the announcement in its first number
that it would be published weekly as soon as such a step was
reasonable, Afterwards, right in the face of economic law,
the Medium came out weekly, and in consequence of making
the public pay its enormous expenses, would have extinguished
this journal, with the public funds, had we not, as a matter of
very hard financial fact, and not of imagination, paid the
consequent heavy losses. We did so in silence, rather than
show dissension in Spiritualism, by publishing the enormous
injustice of the principle of publicly recognising skill in men¬
dicancy, as the most lucrative way of raising funds in connec¬
tion with spiritual literature. There was no necessity for
Spiritualists to give enough money to found a college, to
enable a paper to be sold at half its cost price ; poor people
can borrow newspapers of each other, after paying a fair price
for them. Should not Spiritualists, so far as their public
action is concerned, place all their journals on an equal foot¬
ing ? If so, how much is in justice due to this journal to
balance the assumed £2,000 already mentioned ? The verdict
is in the hands of the public,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
479
Dec. 19, 1873.
NOTICE!—Next week The Spiritualist will be published
early on Wednesday, Thursday being Christmas-day.
Me. Ceookes and Spikitoaxism.—In. the next number
of the Quarterly Journal of Science, Mr. William Crookes,
F.R.S., will give move of his experiences in Spritualism, and
deal with the question of the intelligence connected with the
phenomena. The article will be about twenty pages in
length, and be of great interest both to Spiritualists and men of
science. The number will be obtainable as early as the 24th
of this month, at the publishing office, Boy-court, Ludgate-
hill, E.C. A mistaken idea prevails among Spiritualists,
that Mr. Crookes once ascribed all the phenomena to “ psychic
force this mistake arose from careless reading of his utter¬
ances, for he distinctly stated that for the time being he chose
to “ ignore ” the source whence the intelligence connected
with the objective facts might, or might not be derived.
lyflSS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
i-fjL SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIEVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Kevealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. H. E. Hinde, Bright-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
MRS. OLIYE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street, Chalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seance at the above address on Friday Evenings, at Seven
o’clock. Admission, 2s. 6d.
MESMEEISM AND CLAIEVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
ANSWEES TO COEEESPONDENTS.
R. T.—The man is supposed to have been a cat’s-paw in the hands
of a person much worse than himself.
A. Glendinning.—We did not know the South-place Chapel
meeting came off last week. Had notice been sent by the
- Secretary, a reporter would have been there. We thought the
meeting was to take place last night.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-BENTS, HOLBOEN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negrelti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is,
The new patent self-acting dry closets,
for Earth, Ashes, or Charcoal No noise, no dust, no smell, no
inconvenience; economy and comfort combined. Send for price list.
PEAT ENGINEERING AND SEWAGE FILTRATION COMPANY
(Limited), 150, Leadenhall-street, London.
A. GLENDINNING, Secretary.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy Svo ,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
"WRITINGS. By WILLIAM "WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines, and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of tbe
Swedenborg!an Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by Mr. C.H.Jkkns—I. Jesp^r Svedberg. Bishop of Skara II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. HI. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London; Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER AND PUBLISHER. Agent for the Sale
of T/w Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
mHOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR-
JL CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E, respectfully solicits the patronage of Spirituaiists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, -Grainger-s treet, N e wcastle- on - Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &o. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign b’rds’-skms, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Frankijn', 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
SIBYL, Clairvoyante and Trance Medium, may be consulted
’in all matters of ill-health or business. Terms 5s. each person. From
12 till 6, 53, Great Coram-street, Russell-square, W.C.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private /Seances, from 12 to 5 pm. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s 6d.-; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
HUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours io till 4. 53, Great Ooram-
street, Russell-square, W.O.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
X
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hoar and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualismi”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Daily Albion,
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal io their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales 'Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taugtt by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdire- ted seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through tne lips of Mr. Morse was of a very phiioso-
phical and high-class Character.'’—Spiritualist.
‘‘ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE. Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or tbe provinces, to atiend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.G., when he is in London, where letters, &e., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, "Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQ/UIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritnalism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(B’rom Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, SO.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist N e wspaper.
480
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 19, 1873.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spibitualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Gt. Atkinson, Esq., F.GKS., Q-. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. It. Fox Bourne, Esq.; "Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Gh Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee: —
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox,’ Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepstdn, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber^ Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, 'forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable ‘ integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Ilmd Offices.SjxOWN STEEET AND MABSDEN STEEET, MANCHESTEB
FIBE.
iNSURANtisS AOAinst Loss or Damagh by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUABANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
TO OWNEES OF HOUSE PEOPEBTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PA BE GBOVE, SHEPHEBD’S LANE, BKIXTON,
1> ESPECTFULLY solicits tlie patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Boad, and near the Bailway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every descripiion.
All Orders for Building, House Decoiating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEB PLACE, PABK BO AD, BEGENT’S PAEK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of. a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that .there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle cqnsist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8; Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations ?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
bo afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive te mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; t he manifestations arc born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, jthe
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s Gd. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public lesort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
Now ready, 14th Thousand. 54 Illustrations, post free 14 stamps.
THE PEOPLE’S GUIDE TO HEALTH; or, VOLUN-
TEEES’ MANUAL, by HENBY SMITH, M.D. (Jena.) Gives in¬
structions for Developing and Strengthening the human body, How to
regain Lost Health and Secure Long Life and avoid the Infirmities of
Old Age.
BEVIEWS OF THE WOBK.
“There is a daily growing necessity for such Works as the present,
if we are to be saved as a nation from retrograding.”—Stirling Observer,
July lOtn. “Any one in search of health and vigour will find it useful.”
—Morning Chronicle. “If Dr. Smith had written nothing else than the
1 People's Guide to Health’ he would have earned for himself the grati¬
tude of posterity.’—Dumfermline Saturday Press, June 7, 1873.
Ward, Lock, and Tyler, Paternoster-row.
May be had direct from the Author on jeeeipt of 14 stamps.
Address Dr. Henry Smith, 8, Burton-crescent, London, W.C.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTBEATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BUBTON BOAD, BEIXTON.
The. following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been WITHIN Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient."—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii, sec. 18.
TO BOOK-BUYERS.—Just published, and sent post
free, CATALOGUE No. 6 of Standard SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
being a portion of the large and valuable stock of CHABLES LOWE, 1,
Ann street, Birmingham.—Libraries and small parcels of Books purchased
or exchanged.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
AlTiEN, Ave Maria-lane London, E.C.
