AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 145.—(Vol. VL-No. 23.) LONDON: JUNE 4, 1875.
arantentg.
Spiritualism in St. Petersburg:—Official Investigation of Spiritual
Phenomena at St. Petersburg University... ...   265
The Psychological Society :—Synchronous Dreaming—Remarkable
Memory—The Memory of the Events of Life at or about the Time
of .Death—The Connection of Memory with the Sense of Sight—
Reincarnation—The Value of Memory—Vivid Dreams—Spiritualism
and Insanity—The Prevention of Broken Dreams—Travelling in
Dreams—Prophetic Dreams—Literary Composition during Delirium 266
The Royal Institution:—The Development of Language and of the
Arts        ' 269
The Development of Mrs. Hardy’s Mediumship   269
The Bazaar Last Week   270
A Seance with Mrs. Hardy. By William H. Harrison   271
National Association of Spiritualists:—Annual General Meeting—The
Annual Report—New Members of Council—The Bazaar—Special
Supporters of the Association      271
Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris:—Letter from M. Leymarie to
English Spiritualists     273
A ^eawce with Mrs. Fay   ... •    275
Correspondence:—The Case of Mr. Coles—Sphitualism in Newcastle 276
Answers to Correspondents ...     276
Paragraphs :—Reception at Mrs. Gregory's, 274; Spiritualism and the 1
Devil, 275; Dr. Sexton’s Lectures, 275; Mrs. Tappan’s Appoint¬
ments, 276; A Medium in a Quaker’s Meeting   ... 276
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRV, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The tlarbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITING; By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden-
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size. 3s.; small size, Is.
ANTED a SITUATION in the Carpets and Fur¬
nishing, by an .experienced Man, or Place of Trust, where the
hours are not later than 6.30 p. m. Midland Counties and South of Eng¬
land preferred. Age 30. Address T. H., Spiritualist Office, 11, Ave
Maria-lane, London.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence-
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association oe Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, land the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
RE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historidkl, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A /Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL hold
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month until further notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street,- Bloomsbury, ‘W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject:
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
11
fHE SPIRITUALIST.
June 4, 1875,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
. ON .SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST*" NEWSPAPER,
38, GEE AT BUSSELL-STEEET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
AIL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work
containing interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality
of spirit communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the
author’s views of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian
Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. Ah excellent book of absorbing interest, replete
with well authenticated narratives describing manifestations produced
by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and
other professional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years
without engaging the services of any professional medium, after which
they published the report. Original edition, 15s.; abridged edition,
5a.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifi¬
cally demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in
reply to Hume’s Essay on Miracles. It also records a large number of
interesting spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal
experiences of Mr. Wallace. 5s. .
LANOHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual
phenomena. Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to
Religion and Science is also given. 6s.; New edition, 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt
edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of
essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism.
3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving
general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism.
3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E, W. Oox, Serjeant at Law, An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of
the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are pro¬
duced by an alleged Psychic Force, unconsciously governed in its
action by the thoughts of the medium or the spectators. 8s. The
first vol. of this book, which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of
print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly published book contains Facts and Traditions
relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and
Witchcraft. The author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but
considers Modem Spiritualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives
valuable facts, previously unpublished, and prints the only authorised
and complete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCE OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND, by Maria M. King. 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, by Lizzie Doten. Best edition, gilt.
10s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE, by Lizzie Doten. Last edition,
gilt. 10s. 6d.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. Newton. Is. 3d.
LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell, Is. 3d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY, OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Cot. H. S. Olcott
14s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Vol. L, 7s. 64.
Vols. II and III 8s. each.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE'AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHTSIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
hook, containing Messages given by Spirits through the Writing Me¬
diumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier. 2s.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr, Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY, by Serjeant Cox. Is.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
s. d.
Natures’ Di vine Revelations    17 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia  7 6
The Teacher. „ II. „ .    7 6
The Seer. „ lit. „   7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. „     7 6
The Thinker. „ V.    7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis    7 6
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land   4 0
Arabula, or Divine Guest    7 6-
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology   5 0
Answers to Fiver-recurring Questions from the People  - 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual   3 6
Death and the After-Life   ,.... 4 0
History and Philosophy of Evil  4 0
Harbinger of Health  i   7 6
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age     4 0
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memorander.)   7 6
Philosophy of Special Providence  3 0
’ Free Thoughts Concerning Religion    4 0
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers    8 0
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse   6 6
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained   7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves  T 6
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings    l5 0
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime   5 0
Diakka, and their Earthly Victims  '. 3 0
Oongugal Love; Truth v. Theology     3 0
Morning Lectures    7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS. .
' s. a.
Oriental Religions (Johnson)     24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist newspaper   2 6
Keys of the Creeds        5 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing Interesting
particulars and legends relating to Buddhism     14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel)  5 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes)  18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal)   5 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal)   15'0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen  7 6
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
% 3|mrfr
VOJ.UJVIE ^IX. ^[UjVlBER TWENTY-THREE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 4th, 1876.
Cjre Spxntalxsl
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Boduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Coreespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous "Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should he
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City qgent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Eochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTEALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or 27»e Spiritualist ms,y he had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13e., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
C1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper .facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-equare, W.
SPIRITUALISM IN ST. PETERSBURG.
OFFICIAL INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AT
ST. PETERSBURG UNIVERSITY.
We have much pleasure in giving publicity to the
following letter from M. Alexandre Aksakof:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—In consequence of the testimony of Messrs. Butlerow
and Wagner, professors at the University of St. Petersburg,
to the reality of medial phenomena, and(in consequence of the
excitement produced thereby in the press and among the
Russian public, the Society of Physical Science attached to
this University, at its meeting on the 6th May, 1875, appointed
a committee for the investigation of these phenomena.
The committee proposes to have a series of experimental
seances with such foreign mediums, as well as with such persons
in Russia possessing medial faculties, as are willing to afford
the committee facilities for studying the phenomena produced
in their presence.
The committee desires, in commencing, to confine itself
principally to the fundamental type of these phenomena, com¬
prising the movement of inanimate objects, with or without
the contact of hands, but without application of any known
mechanical force.
The committee proposes to commence its operations in the
month of September, and to pursue them at least until the
month of May, 1876. The experiments will take place weekly,
once or more frequently according to circumstances ; each sit¬
ting will be registered and signed by the members of the com¬
mittee, and by the medium’s own witnesses, of whom there
will be three admitted.; and when the committee has concluded
its investigations it will publish the results of the same.
In accordance with a decree of the committee at its meeting
on the 9th May, the undersigned is authorised to make public
announcement of the nomination and plan of the committee,
as well as to take such measures as he shall think necessary
for securing the aid of mediums. For this purpose he has
undertaken to make the present appeal to mediums for physical
phenomena, and to invite them to spend some time at St.
Petersburg, in order that the committee may have the oppor¬
tunity of studying the phenomena peculiar to their medium-
ship. Those who can only accept such invitations under par¬
ticular conditions are requested to communicate as soon as
possible with the undersigned, who-will do all in his power to
obviate any material difficulty, and to procure ample compen¬
sation for any trouble which they may undergo in answering
to this appeal. Alexandre Aksakof.
St. Petersburg, Nevsky Prospect, 6.
When the Dialectical Society undertook to investigate
Spiritualism, it adopted a different course : it resolved
to have nothing to do with Spiritualists or with
professional mediums, but the members of its com¬
mittee sought to obtain the phenomena in their own
homes, and the results were highly successful. This
plan is by far the best one that the professors at the
University of St; Petersburg could adopt.
In the event, however, of their carrying out the plan
laid down in the above letter, it is clear from the tenor
of the document that they wish to obtain physical
results with precision. Spiritualism is more a mental
than a physical science, and the great mistake which
the St. Petersburg professors made on a former occasion
was to look upon it as a pure matter of physics. The
best manifestations cannot be obtained unless the
medium is thoroughly comfortable and happy, and so
266
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 4, 1875.
full of confidence in the persons surrounding him that
he can go into that state of tranquil sleep or trance
during which certain of the phenomena are evolved with
power. Hence, when the St. Petersburg professors took
a sensitive medium like Mr. Home to a room in the
University, then surrounded him with strangers
prejudiced both against him and the facts which occur
in his presence, and when they further by whisking a
cloth off the table showed that the top of it was made
of glass (thereby proving that they considered it highly
probable that their chief guest was a rogue), they
ignorantly broke some of the fundamental laws which
govern the production of physical manifestations.
There are, it is true, some powerful mediums who
can almost command manifestations in the face of the
most adverse influences, and perhaps the best for the
purpose at present in Europe are Mrs. Eay and the
Davenport Brothers, who obtain results with consider¬
able precision, even in the face of large and hostile
audiences. Although they are so powerful, that is no
reason why they should be furnished with the worst
conditions for Obtaining good results. So if they should
be induced to visit St. Petersburg, we would suggest
that during the first week they should give seances only
to the Spiritualists there, so that the mediums may
acquire confidence in their friends, and their friends
may obtain personal knowledge of the reality of the
manifestations. During the second week of their stay
some members of the scientific committee might be in¬
vited to unofficially observe some of the manifestations
before the actual experiments at the University com¬
menced, and they would soon have much of their pre¬
judice against the mediums and their antagonism to the
subject worked off. During the third week the ex¬
periments at the University might begin. The condi¬
tions then would be that the three Spiritualistic wit¬
nesses would attend with full confidence in the mediums,
that the mediums would feel they were not entirely
among strangers, and that the partially initiated
scientific disbelievers would approach the subject with
a better understanding. /In this way the experiments
would begin not in a cold business-like style, or with
mediums in a state of anxiety, for that the mediums
shall be happy and comfortable is the prime condition
for obtaining successful results.
There are many mediums who get good manifesta¬
tions with tolerable regularity even under somewhat
adverse conditions, but who, in the presence of a
coldly unsympathetic circle, occasionally have complete
failures; therefore it is much the best plan for the St.
Petersburg professors to have such mediums as Mrs.
Fay and the Davenport Brothers, who scarcely know
what it is to have an unsuccessful seance.
The great mistake in most scientific investigations
of Spiritualism is that the investigators suppose that
the mediums are on trial before them, whereas the
truth is that the men of science are on trial before
posterity; for the question at issue really is—“Will
these men, when they have ascertained the truth,
have the hardihood to publish such unpopular facts in
the face of the world?” The Davenport Brothers
obtained manifestations at Harvard University which
the professors were unable to explain, so they had the
cowardice to withhold any report, although they had
previously promised the public they would give one.
Physicists, too, often make the mistake of imposing
their own conditions upon the phenomena and obtaining
nothing, either because the spirits do not intend to
submit to their rules or because some fundamental law
has been broken. This spirit power is visiting the
earth to govern and not to obey.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
On Wednesday evening, last week, a meeting of the Psycho¬
logical Society was held at 9, Conduit-street, Eegent-street,
under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox. Among the mem¬
bers present were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, the Bev. W.
Stainton-Moses, M.A., Mr. Percival, Major S. B. I. Owen,
Mr. F. K. Munton, Mrs. Wiseman, and Mr. Frederick Colling,
wood, Secretary to the Anthropological Institute.
SYNCHRONOUS DREAMING.
The Psychological Society having invited friends to con¬
tribute records of psychological facts, to be considered at the
meetings, the following communication was read by Mr. Mun¬
ton, the Secretary:—
“ As it is necessary to be very exact when relating what
may appear, at least, to border on the uncommon, I will not
trust to reporting, nor to memory, what I may say respecting
a dream that I think worthy of putting on record, as the at¬
tendant circumstances and coincidences are, to put it mildly,
extremely remarkable.
“ On the morning of Friday, May 14th, 1875,1 dreamed
that I was examining my ring; the face of the diamond was
broken off, though the rest of the stone remained in the set-
ting.
“During the day I struck my ring while getting up on an
omnibus. I naturally looked, it recalling the dream, and so
vividly, that I looked several times before I could realise that
the stone was unbroken.
“ On Sunday, May 16th, I related this dream to Mr. Clifford
Smith, who said that it was very remarkable, as he had
dreamed, he believed, on the same night that he had struck
his hand, and that, on looking at his ring, he had found the
stone injured; but what made it appear to him most extra¬
ordinary was, that the ring on his finger was not his own but
mine, it being a diamond, and not the stone he usually wears,
that was broken.
“ I asked him to tell me why he believed he had dreamed
this on the Thursday night. He replied that it was because
the dream had been recalled to his mind by striking his hand
against a wall while walking in the street on the next day
(Friday); he had then looked at his ring to see if the stone
was injured.
. “ I had told him of my dream before he mentioned this ;
but I had not told him of the circumstance that had recalled
it to my own mind.
“ Then it is noteworthy that the dreams are nearly identi¬
cal—the difference being that the ring or stone broken is the
very same, not in his case his own, but mine, the dreams
occurring, if not at the same time, very nearly so. Each dream
was recalled to the mind of the dreamer on the same day by
accidents as nearly similar as circumstances could permit.
“ I am, &o.,
“ Major B. I. Owen.”
REMARKABLE MEMORY.
The Bev. Henry Christmas, formerly of Sion College, pos¬
sessed an extraordinary memory. I have seen him read a
page of Greek or Latin opened at random, close the book
and repeat the whole of the page verbatim, beginning with the
broken sentence in the first line. He knew by heart the entire
of many volumes of poems. He could repeat the whole of
Horace from memory : one perusal usually sufficed. He in¬
formed me that this marvellous memory of his was a memory
not of sound but of sight. He did not recall the words, but
the page on which they had been printed when he learned
them, and in his mind’s eye he saw that page and read from
it. I suspect such a form of memory to be not uncommon.
It is possessed by myself. When I desire to repeat anything
learned by rote I am compelled to recall to my mind the book
and the page of the book from which I learned it. I see in
my mental vision the very misprints, creases, and spots upon
the paper, and I mentally read it from the ideal representation
of the book. This is plainly memory for objects of sight,
not for language. Edward. Wm. Cox.
May 25, 1875.
June 4, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
287
THE MEMORY OF THE EVENTS OF LIFE AT OR ABOUT THE TIME
OF DEATH.
The debate upon the paper on “ Memory,” read at the
last meeting by Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., was then resumed.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., said—Many stories are
on record as to a phenomenon which precedes death in many
cases; I mean the unfolding of the whole panorama of life at
the moment of severance of soul from body. It has chanced
to me to pass through that experience, and I will endeavour
to describle what I felt. I was upset out of a little boat on
the Isis. I was new to college in those days, and did not know
the rules of the river, which secured a free course for practis¬
ing eights. I was run down; and as I could not swim a stroke
I soon sank. It never occurred to anybody, I suppose, that a
man who could venture in a little cockleshell such as I was
sculling, was unable to swim; and so no particular effort was
made to rescue me. I went down dazed and confused with
the upset, and the shouts and objurgations of the crowd. I
remember the shout of the coxswain, more forcible than
polite, and then I floundered about until I suppose I became
unconscious. At any rate a strange peacefulness took the
place of my previous feeling. I recognised fully that I was
drowning, but no sort of fear was present to my mind. I did
not even regret the fact. By degrees, as it seemed—though
the process must have been instantaneous—I recollected my
life. The link was—well, I am drowning, and this life is
done with. It has not been a very long one. .. . And so the
events of it came before my mind, and seemed to shape them¬
selves in outline and move before me. It was not that I
thought, but that objective pictures of events seemed to float
before me, a moving tableau, as though depicted on the mass
of water that weighed upon my eyes. I seemed to see the
tableau, but not with the eye of sense: with that mysterious
inner vision with which I have since discerned spiritual things.
The silky, velvety appearance of the tableau, which seemed
as I say to float before me, was very prominently impressed
upon me. The events were all scenes in which I had been an
actor, and no very trivial or unimportant ones were depicted,
though they were not all serious, some indeed laughable
enough. Nor was my frame of mind particularly solemn. I
was an interested spectator ; little more. One incident of
which I had no previous knowledge was recalled to my mind
on that occasion, and has never again left it. My memory of
it is now as clear as of other things. The next thing I re¬
member was the interruption of this peaceful state by a series
of most unpleasant sensations which were attendant on re¬
suscitation. All the stories that I have read of this mechanical
reproduction of the events of life have been connected with
drowning, and I had wondered whether there was anything
connected with the mode of death which would account for
the phenomenon. I have found, however, accidentally,
that the sensation is not confined to death by drowning.
I found the following in a book by Samuel Woodworth Oozzens,
entitled, The Marvellous Country'; or, Three Years in Arizona
and New Mexico." A party had ascended one of the
mountains in Arizona, and had reached “ a narrow shelf
scarcely twelve inches in width, although 800 feet above the
plain.” A huge wall of rock towered 300 feet above, and the
descent was nearly sheer below for 800 feet. On this ledge the
author slipped by carelessly stepping on a loose stone, and
was precipitated over the bluff, sliding down its almost perpen¬
dicular side, feet foremost. Momentum rapidly increased, and
he gave himself up for lost. ” Convinced,” he says, “ that
death was inevitable, I became perfectly reconciled to the
thought. My mind comprehended in a moment the acts of a
lifetime. Transactions of the most trivial character, circum¬
stances the remembrance of which had been buried deep in
memory’s vault for years, stood before me in bold relief; my
mind recalled with the rapidity of lightning, and yet retained
a distinct impression of every thought. I seemed to be gliding
swiftly and surely out of the world, but felt no fear, experienced
no regret at the thought; on the contrary, rejoiced that I was
so soon to see with my own eyes the great mystery concealed
behind the veil; that I was to cross the deep waters and be
at rest. I thought I heard the sound of many voices, in
wonderful harmony, coming from the far off distance, though
from what direction I could not tell.” . . . It is not necessary
to detail how a projecting stone threw the writer forward, and
how he clutched at something that his hand struck against—
“ I have always (he says) since that day understood perfectly
the feeling that induces a drowning man to catch at a straw
that he sees floating near him ”—and how he was finally rescued
bruised and bleeding, but still alive. The point is the effort
of recollection which precedes physical death, and what I have
here related has, I think, a distinct bearing on the question of
what memory is, independently of any interest which attaches
to the record. The materialistic explanation of memory is that
it is a ” tendency of the molecules of the brain to return to any
position into which they have once been thrown.” You, Mr.
Chairman, in one of your books have said—” If memory is
merely a recurrence of the molecular motion set up by im¬
pressions upon the brain structure, it follows that, for the
construction of a picture composed of portions of many
distinct memories, which is so frequent an employment of the
mind, the brain must restore as many fragments of the past
molecular conditions as may be required for the newly-con¬
structed picture, and not only restore them, but cluster them
together in the precise array requisite for the completeness of
the new idea. The mere statement of the difficulty will suffice
to exhibit the insufficiency of the material theory of memory.”
The question is whether this is so, or whether the brain is the
organ of the soul whereby it communicates with the outer
world. Convinced from other sources of the existence of a
spirit in man, and of its independence of the body under
certain conditions, as well as of its independent existence
after physical death, I regard the question as practically
settled. If I subscribed to that system of philosophy which
finds in matter the key to every form of being, then I should
accept this theory faute de mieux, though I should still fail to
see how molecular action can not only reproduce but originate
impressions. But knowing as I do that the real man is in¬
dependent of this molecular structure in which—a spirit in
prison—he is for a time confined, I have no difficulty in re¬
garding these flashes of recollection which precede the
severance of the soul from the body as foretastes of that
perfect view of the panorama of life which the disembodied
spirit will enjoy ; in which it will trace the lessons of existence,
marking how here a slip injured its progress, and there an
opportunity was lost, and recognising the growth and de¬
velopment of faculties which are only then to find their true
sphere of action. It is difficult to see how the lesson of life
can be learned otherwise. Whether indeed that view may
extend to minute incidents of life now forgotten—I recall in
my own case one fact so brought to my recollection—or
whether it may go on to other phases of being in which the
soul has had previous existence we cannot tell. But if the
theory I hold be true, and we are to live again as intelligent
sentient individualities, it is difficult to see how we are to
escape the feeling that our existence so far reacting did not
commence with the present life. It will readily be seen how
clearly the facts I have noted point to the independent action
of soul, and conjoined with others point to the conclusion
that memory is a function of the soul, and is exercised with
greater power when the soul is being disengaged from the
body. I have desired to contribute to this discussion facts
which point, as I conceive, to the theory that memory is a
function of the soul, and not of the material brain. (Ap¬
plause.)
THE CONNECTION OF MEMORY WITH THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
Mr. Stephens remarked that the preceding speaker had told
how his memory was connected at the moment of drowning
with the sense of sight. He (Mr. Stephens) knew a whist
player who never forgot any card that was played throughout
the game; he saw all the cards arranged in a square, and
every time a card was played he turned one over in his
own mind.
Mr. Coffin said that in respect to the subject of sight-memory
which had been introduced, the-mind might be called the
inverse order of memory. He could never remember the words,
nor could he afterwards turn to the particular part of a book
for anything which he wanted to find. He could only keep
what he had read in his own mind. He thought that it would
be a very good thing that, if any gentleman stated facts at the
meetings of the Psychological Society, it should be in order to
put questions to him at. the time, relating to the facts, so as
to draw out all the circumstances.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he thought that it would be an
excellent plan.
Mr. Coffin continued, that he should like to ask Major
Owen did he in the interval between awaking and striking his
ring remember his dream of the preceding night, or did he
only recollect his dream at the moment when he struck his
ring?
Major Owen replied that he remembered his dream imme¬
diately upon awaking.
Mr. Smith said that he had had the corresponding dream,
but only remembered it at the moment of striking his hand,
He did not see Major Owen till afterwards, so had no inter*
268
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 4, 1875
mediate conversation with him on the subject of the dream
at all.
MINCARNATXOH.
Major Owen said that the question was sometimes raised
whether the spirit ever had any recollection of a previous life
upon earth. The first functions of the lower anirrmlH—the diges¬
tive functions, for instance, and the power of sight—had all
come up to man. All the human passions had been trained up in
the lower animals, yet there was nothing in the mind of man to
carry him back to those times. It was difficult to understand
how the mind could come up through the stages before man,
so in those stages it would seem that man had no individuality,
and that was an argument against the theory of reincarnation
which was about to be promulgated in England.
THE VALUE OF MEMORY.
Mr. E. E. Munton said that memory was one of the most
important subjects the Society could discuss, because it com¬
prised almost everything. All the ability of the lawyer, of
the doctor, of the statesman were comprised under the head
of memory. When a physician was called in to prescribe for
a patient his memory was called into play, and he thereby
made use of the knowledge which he had previously acquired.
There were singular things connected with memory. He had
what was considered to be a good memory, but there were
occasions when things which were most familiar to him would
depart from his mind and could not be recalled when required;
for instance, in his early days he was good at singing songs
without music, but at times he could not remember the first
line of those songs, although they were perfectly familiar to
him; yet, at the same moment,he could recall instantly songs
which he had not sung for ten years previously. Mr. Serjeant
Cox’s case of the memory of a clergyman was certainly very
astounding, but some men had an aptitude for remembering a
particular kind of thing. He knew a barrister who, if he
only read an Act of Parliament once, would for ever after¬
wards remember the chapter and page containing any parti-
cular clause; but any passage so remembered must be in
some way associated with figures,—that is to say, the para¬
graphs must be numbered or contain figures. Dates would
help him to recollect. He should like to know something
more about the memory of blind men.
Mr. Coffin said that since the last meeting he had twice
visited the school at Norwood, at which the blind were taught
music, and he had told them of the debate about the visions of
the blind at the previous meeting of the Psychological Society.
One blind gentleman said that he was conscious of the pre¬
sence of things in a way which did not appeal to any of the
known senses, and in a way which he could scarcely describe.
He recollected past events by some method wholly unconnected
with eyesight. In walking he was conscious of the approach of
things, and he could frequently tell the height of an adjacent
wall or fence to within a few inches; his wife said that he
could sometimes thus judge the height of a wall better than
she could herself.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that he had known similar cases.
Mr. Munton asked whether the person spoken of by Mr.
Stephens, who in his mind turned over different cards, did so
intentionally or unintentionally ’ Was his will at work in the
matter ?
Mr. Stephens said that the cards were turned over con¬
sciously. A blind friend of his at Cambridge was in the habit
of learning long pieces of music. He did it by having the
notes read over to him, and principally by association.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that several persons, on being resus¬
citated from hanging, had spoken of the memory of their lives
having passed before them at the moment of suffocation. He
thought that memory was one thing and recollection* another.
Everything that made an impression upon the brain was con¬
veyed by the brain to the conscious self, which might be called
the soul. Things were sometimes recollected which the indi¬
vidual was not conscious had ever occurred; this was an ex¬
ample of the working of memory, and on inquiry the individual
found out that he had passed through the experiences. Men
often remembered things which they could not recall; the
memory had been all right, but recollection, as he understood
it, was an act of the brain. The brain of to-day was not the
brain of last year or of years before; in short, in the brain
there was not a particle of the brain of childhood, and that
fact was an argument against the theory of the materialists.
VIVID DREAMS.
The discussion of the paper read by Mr. Serjeant Cox, on
“ Dreams,” at the last meeting, was then resumed.
Mr. Percival said that some people have a most vivid recol¬
lection of their dreams, while others wake and have a faint
impression on their minds that they have been dreaming, but
are unable to recollect what they have been dreaming about.
A friend of his at Oxford, who was a tutor at one of the col¬
leges, was in his dreams carried through most beautiful
scenery ; he saw hills, mountains, and valleys which he de¬
scribed next day with perfect minuteness; so clear was his
recollection, that he could reproduce the visions of the night
before, in drawings, and he could recollectthe details so well,
that sometimes he would take half-an-hour in minutely de¬
scribing a single dream. He hardly cared to travel in Switzer¬
land or elsewhere, because on such occasions he never saw
anything equal to the scenes of which he dreamt by night.
Dr. Gregory used to say that he often dreamt of subjects on
which he intended to speak to his pupils during the day, and
he would put down forms of words which came to him in
dreams. Usually he (Mr. Percival) could recollect little of
what he had been dreaming during the night; it was all con¬
fusion. Perhaps the shock of waking destroyed remembrance,
just as one philosopher had said that the shock of birth
destroyed the memory of previous existence. (Laughter.)
Since the last meeting, he had ascertained that a gentleman
now in London had often answered questions put to him
during sleep, and knew nothing about it on awaking, but had
a confused recollection that he had been dreaming. Aber¬
crombie narrated how an officer who served in the American
war was known to answer questions which were put to him in
whispers when he was asleep. His brother officers experi¬
mented upon him; they made,him suppose that he was fight¬
ing a duel; they put a pistol near his hand, and he stretched
out his hand to take it; afterwards he fired it o£f at the right
moment, and woke himself. (Laughter.) Once they made
him suppose that he had fallen into the sea; he then began
to swim; they next told him a shark was after him, and this
so frightened him that he fell from the looker—on which he was
sleeping—on to the deck. In this case he had no recollection
of Ms dream when he awoke.
Mr. Sergeant Cox said that a lady had told him that it was
a common practice in boarding schools among the girls to
make sleepers talk by whispering to them.
SPIRITUALISM AND INSANITY.
Mr. Coffin said that he had made his brother talk and
answer questions put to him in his sleep for some years, but
that his brother had no recollection of the fact when he awoke.
For aught he (Mr. Coffin) knew, his brother might have been
trying the same experiment with him. The connection
between sleep and insanity ought to be studied. In lucid
intervals, maniacs know very little indeed of what they have
been doing in their insane moments. Insane persons lose
their identity, and while they are in that state they believe
themselves to be Julius Caesar, or the front door, or a neighbour¬
ing lamp-post. But no ordinary person in dreams ever
imagined such things, or supposed, like a certain maniac,
that he had a hippopotamus in his stomach. (Laughter.) Such
incongruities as these did not occur in the wildest dreams. In
his paper read last week Mr. Serjeant Cox had speculated that
a ploughboy could become a genius and a poet in his dreams;
he should like to know whether the evidence in support of that
sweeping statement was perfect. There might be a certain
amount Of exaltation in dreams, but how could it be proved
tljat a ploughboy ever rose to the same level during his sleep
as persons of intelligence and culture? Had a sleeping
ploughboy ever given valuable information ? If not, how was
he to do it while awake, for after waking he would not have
the capacity to give the higher ideas?
THE PREVENTION OF BROKEN DREAMS.
Major Owen said that dreams could be recollected by a par¬
ticular process. If a man were dreaming, and suddenly found
himself half-way between sleeping and waking, if he then
kept motionless, and continued to breathe at the same steady
rate, and made up his mind to go through the dream a second
time, it would all come over again. He had tried this, and
knew from experience that it was a perfectly practical way of
completing a dream which otherwise would have been broken
off in the middle. If anybody spoke to him, or if he drew a
long breath, that spoilt the experiment, and he would wake
up. But without such interruptions a man could thus go
through his dreams two or three times over.
TRAVELLING- IN DREAMS—PROPHETIC DREAMS.
Mr. Gray said jthat he had tried Major Owen’s plan, and,
although he had not found it infallible, it was successful on
some occasions. The brain had sometimes a greater power
June 4, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
269
daring sleep than it had while the man was awake. He was a
great deal connected with inventions, and found that new
ideas aboat them were occasionally gained in dreams. Some¬
times he could not express thoughts, but during sleep, on
several occasions, he had been surprised at the lucidity with
which he appeared to be addressing audiences, until the
inspiration had at last made him utter poetry, and on waking
he could remember the lines and put them on paper. Thus
the brain had a power in sleep which it did not possess during
waking hours. There were, no doubt, several sorts of dreams
and causes of dreams. One peculiar kind of dream came to
him sometimes; he fancied that he could go where he pleased
by will-power, that he could float from place to place. The
sensation was a very pleasant one. When this dream came to
him the second time, he was conscious that the first one had
been a dream, so he took steps to prove that it was true; for
instance, he asked witnesses to testify what he was doing, and
having demonstrated to them that it was not a dream at all, he
immediately afterwards woke up and found that he was mis¬
taken. Sometimes he had dreams, and did not remember
them until a long time afterwards, when certain circumstances
brought them to his recollection. Once he went to a house,
and on seeing it fancied that he had been there before, although
he certainly never had in his waking state. He looked for a
tree, and for a certain mark round the corner, and found them.
The same individual whom he had seen in the dream met him
in the hall and led him into a room, everything in which was
just as he expected. Yet he could not tell how or where he
had previously realised all these facts.
Mr. Yolckman said that the experiments of Messrs. Owen and
Gray were probably imaginative frameworks, of which dreams
were the basis.
LITERARY COMPOSITION DURING DELIRIUM.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that Coleridge, it was well known, had
eomposed the beautiful opening of his poem, Kublai Khan,
in a dream, and had never been able to finish the rest of it
properly. The forty or fifty lines thus written were exceed¬
ingly beautiful. He thought that incipient delirium did not
differ much from a dream. Some years ago he had scarlet
fever, and he remembered that when delirium commenced he
was engaged in writing newspaper articles, so he called his
clerk to take down his utterances, and as he dictated he thought
that he had never had such a wonderful flow of words or such
magnificent ideas in his life. His clerk took it all down, and
when he recovered he read through the articles, and found the
contents to be the veriest bosh ever penned. It was a con¬
fused jumble of words. This often led him to think, when
people told him of their wonderful dreams, and what beautiful
speeches they had made in their sleep, that if anybody had
been there to take the words down, the result might have
been a very trumpery matter indeed. Some of Mr. Coffin’s
remarks required careful consideration before they could be
answered. One could hardly suppose that the human soul
was ever insane. The brain acted in a disorderly way in
dreams, whereas in insanity it was probably suffering from
some disease. He thought that in dreams the soul was in the
first stage of severance from the body, and that it was in a
state wherein it could not exercise its will over the body.
The meeting then broke up.
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF LANGUAGE AND OF THE ARTS.
Last Friday night Colonel A. Lane Fox delivered a lecture
at the Royal Institution, under the presidency of Hr. George
Busk, F.R.S., on “ The Evolution of Culture.”
In the course of his remarks, the lecturer said that among
savage and primitive communities the arts were less liable to
change than words, so that more could be learned of the
history of pre-historic times from the study of implements
and relics than from the study of bonds of connection between
the languages of the descendants of extinct nations. New
words, he said, gained currency more readily in small com¬
munities than in large ones, because in the former they have
to fight less persistently for existence. Words change or are
modified in passing from mouth to ear. Especially was this
the case before writing was invented; indeed, before that time
language was in a constant state of change or flux. Conse¬
quently, among savages who did not write, languages were very
numerous. As an example of the changes in language as
compared with those in the arts, the lecturer said that
throughout Australia the weapons used by the savages are
practically the same, yet in nearly every tribe they have given
a different name to the same weapon. For all these reasons
the most accurate knowledge which can be obtained about
pre-historic man is obtainable from his weapons and his tools.
Man is essentially a tool-making animal. The ape uses sticks
and stones, and even applies them to the cracking of nuts,
but the ape has never been known to make a tool. The
creature who first did *so probably found by experience that
the stones he used for breaking things sometimes split in par¬
ticular directions, and that the remaining pieces with sharp
edges would get through certain kinds of work more rapidly
than would a rounded piece of rock. In this way stone knives
and weapons were probably first originated. As the creature
gained this experience he gradually acquired fresh ideas, new
ideas always being evolved from old ones, complex ideas being
built up of others more simple. After the art of writing was
invented, language became more stable than before, especially
in large communities ; it became also more reliable as a guide
to the history of the past. Colonel Fox could not conclude
his lecture without having a shot at Spiritualism. In showing
the changes which had taken place in the designs upon certain
British coins, he showed how in course of time the driver of a
chariot came to be lifted from his first position, “ not after the
manner of a London cab-driver, but after the manner of
Spiritualists. In later coins,” said the lecturer, “ unlike the
Spiritualists, he lost his body, and not his head.”
THE DEVELOPMENT OF MRS. HARDY’S
MEDIUMSHIP.
Mrs. Hardy, the American medium, who is now travelling
in Europe for the benefit of her health, has kindly furnished
us with the following particulars relating to the development
of her mediumship:—
I was born at Raymond, New Hampshire, U.S., in 1847, the
year when the phenomena of modern Spiritualism first ap¬
peared in America through the mediumship of the Fox sisters.
I have been a medium all my life, or at all events from the
time I was five years of age, which is as far back as I can
recollect. While a child, heavy bodies would move and distinct
rapping noises would be heard in my presence. My medium-
ship does not appear to be hereditary, although my mother
was rather intuitive and occasionally had the power of pre¬
vision known to the Scotch as second-sight. When I was
seven years of age I first saw a spirit; it was that of a
departed sister of mine. My view of the apparition was some¬
what indistinct. When I was thirteen years of age, and lying
in bed one moonlight night, I saw the spirit of my sister again
and talked to her ; she appeared to be as solid and as
natural as in life ; she was dressed in white flowing drapery,
dotted with flowers. I was exceedingly nervous, and am quite
sure that ! was wide awake and in full possession of all my
faculties. At last I grew so frightened that I went down stairs
and told my mother and father what I had seen. They were
surprised,"and said that they had heard footsteps in my room.
In the course of our conversation the apparition touched me;
her hand felt warm. Just as she departed she seemed to
divide into two, and I could see the wall between the two
halves as she slowly melted into nothingness.
When at school I could not learn lessons or anything else
from books—I never could learn from a book in my life; yet
from general knowledge gained while at school I could answer
most of the questions put to me by examiners, and I got on
pretty well.
Until I was seventeen years of age no great Change took
place in my mediumship, but then I began to hear voices, and
one day I saw for the first time one of my chief spirit guides,
Dr. Otis, who takes an active part in managing the production
of the manifestations which now take place in my presence.
When these voices first came to me I was in a state of doubt
as to the course I should take, and the advice given to me by
the spirit decided one of the most momentous actions I ever
took in my life. Some time after this I became acquainted
With Mr. Hardy, who had previously investigated Spiritualism,
and knew it to be true. I then knew little or nothing about
Spiritualism or Spiritualists, although all my life I had been
familiar with the phenomena. My husband had been con¬
verted to Spiritualism by Dr. Laroy Sunderland, who was one
of the first to introduce the subject of mesmerism into
America, and who had given experimental lectures upon it in
different parts of the States. Mr. Hardy discovered that I
was a mesmeric subject, and that I went into trances under
spirit influence. In the year 1865 the spirits predicted some
of the most important events in our future lives, and every-
270
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 4, 1875.
thing they told us has come true to the letter up to the pre¬
sent time. About three years ago I first obtained the
materialisation of spirit hands, which at one time come with
more power than they do at another. During the last twelve
years of my life Boston has been my place of residence.
THE BAZAAR LAST WEEK.
The Bazaar of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, held on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday last
week, at the Co-operative Hall, Oxford-street, passed
off smoothly and successfully. The stalls, which were
covered with red cloth, and draped with red and white
hangings, were arranged in the ordinary manner along
each side of the hall. The centre was occupied by a
double stall several feet in length, divided by a raised
screen, on which were exhibited the pictures and photo¬
graphs which the daily papers were pleased to charac¬
terise as the “ most interesting feature’’ and the “ dis¬
tinguishing attraction” of the bazaar. Here were hung
the trance paintings of David Duguid, and those by
Miss Whiffen and other artists; a few originals of the
“ Drawings by a Girl of Twelve Tears of Age,” kindly
lent by their owner, and two drawings of spirit mono¬
grams by Miss Houghton; some beautifully illuminated
spiritual poetry by Miss Hunt, and the curious spirit
drawings of Miss Williamson; also the photographs
of Mr. Crookes and Katie King, and a large number
of copies of the direct and trance paintings of David
Duguid.
Mrs. Everittn and her daughters (Misses Rosa and
Alice Everitt) presided with much energy and skill
over three stalls which they had been helped to
furnish by the aid of Mr. James Mylne, of India, Mr.
W. P. Adshead, and other friends, of Belper, and
Mr. T. Hinde, of Darlington. Their wares con¬
sisted of every variety of ladies’ and children’s cos¬
tume, mixed with ornamental baskets and terra-cotta
vases, of marvellous cheapness and tastefulness; indeed,
the large supply did not meet the demand. Fancy
tables and jardinieres, and a pair of live doves com¬
pleted the heterogeneous collection. Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald was busy dispensing perfumery and other
elegancies of the toilet; while Miss Emily Fitz-Gerald,
the youthful and active assistant honorary secretary of
the Brixton Psychological Society, attracted purchasers
who already had' supplied themselves with muslin
aprons, toilet boxes, - and fancy pinafores; on her
stall were numerous specimens of painted Spa wood.
Mrs. Kislingbury excelled in articles of needlework,
especially in every kind of convenience for the work-
basket, manufactured with perfect finish by her own
hands, and which must have cost her many weeks of
industry. Mrs. Maltby had an excellent show of dolls
and Dolly Yarden caps, most of which sold to advan¬
tage. Mrs. and Miss Sexton and Mrs. Parkes were by
no means behindhand in pushing their fancy Japanese
articles, of which they made a most excellent sale.
Mrs. Elgie Corner presided actively over the refresh¬
ments, and drew crowds around her stall as the tea
hour advanced, when the cakes supplied by Mr. Lamont,
served up in . terra-cotta baskets contributed by Mrs.
Adshead, were a welcome accompaniment to the lemon¬
ade presented by a non-spiritualistic friend, especially
when dispensed by the celebrated medium Florence
Cook. Little Miss Edith Cook gathered in her quota
of sixpences by selling bouquets for gentlemen’s coats.
Mr. and Mrs. Bennett and the Misses Withall were also
active promoters of the sale of photographs and books,
in which they assisted Miss Kislingbury at the Fine Art
stall. Two musical boxes, an occasional song from
Miss Sexton, and pianoforte performances by the
Misses Withall and Mr. F. Tindall, enlivened the pro¬
ceedings from time to time during the afternoon.
A large-sized wedding-cake, supplied by Mrs.
Kislingbury, ornamented in orthodox style with
flowers and white satin bows, was filled with all
manner of good things, in which all were invited
to try their luck by plunging their hand amongst
the mass of tiny packets within. Towards the last,
raffles were of course the order of the day, by which
means some of the more costly articles were successfully
disposed of.
A remarkable instance of the power of individual
character was shown in the sale of two flower pieces
painted by Mrs. Tappan, who brought them herself to
the hall, and which were eagerly bid for as soon as they
left her hand.
In the evening of Wednesday, after the annual
meeting of members had taken place in a side room,
the Royal Osborne Bellringers gave a short entertain¬
ment in their accustomed style. The singing of Mr.
Ganney and Mr. E. Lyster was particularly pleasing.
Mr. C. Reimers also contributed to the evening’s amuse¬
ment by his comic exhibition of shadows and dancing
figures.
On Thursday evening Mrs. A. E. Fay gave a light
seance, which is described in another column.
We have received the following letter from the
Bazaar Committee:—
To the Editor of | The. Spiritualist.”
Sib,—Now that the promoters of the bazaar have completed
their labours, the results of which have, in most respects, fully
answered their most sanguine expectations, the members of the
Committee desire to return public thanks to those friends to
whose liberality and kind co-operation their success is due.
It would be perhaps invidious to single out names where so
many have aided more or less, according to their ability ; but
the Committee feel that they owe a special debt of gratitude
to some who, not being resident in London, showed their
brotherly interest and public spirit by sending contributions
from great distances : from Belper, Liverpool, Hull, Darling¬
ton, and Glasgow in the North ; from Swansea in the West;
and from Switzerland, Austria, and distant Smyrna in the
East. They wish also to acknowledge the kind feeling of
others who, though not members of the Association, gave
their support either by gifts, by making purchases, or by
assisting at the stalls.
Further, the Committee desire to tender their hearty thanks
to Mrs. Annie Eva Fay, who came from Malvern for the ex¬
press purpose of aiding the funds of the bazaar by the attrac¬
tion of her light seance, and which doubtless was the means
of inducing many persons to attend who would not otherwise
have visited the hall.
Notwithstanding that there was an excellent sale, many
articles of various degrees of value still remain on hand. The
unsold paintings by David Duguid, and Jother drawings, will
continue on view at the rooms of the Association, 38, Great
Russell-street, where they can be seen and purchased.
Signed, on behalf of the Bazaar Committee,
M. A. Evekitt,
E. Kislingbury.
The bazaar opened at twelve o’clock each day and
closed at nine. The number of persons who attended
varied at different times from only a few to more than
a hundred. The total receipts were about £140, and
the total expenses about £50, because some of the
goods were sold on commission, so had to be paid for;
but the handsome balance of about £90 remains for the
benefit of the cause.
If all the readers of these pages would join the
National Association, even at the low rate of five
June 4, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
271
shillings each annually, the organisation would then
have a large regular income in excess of its regular
expenses, and great good would be done to the movement
without exceptional support from anybody. The very
best way to strengthen the rapidly growing National
Association is to join it, and to ask friends to do like¬
wise, so that all the benefits of united friendly action may
be gained.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. HARDY.
BY WILLIAM H. HAEBISON.
Last Friday afternoon Mr. and Mrs. Hardy favoured
me with a private seance, at which a friend of theirs, a
healing medium from America, was the fourth person
present. Two small square tables of the same height
were placed about five inches apart. Cloths and blankets
were thrown over them in such a way as to reach to
the floor all round, and were placed over the top of the
tables so as to leave a rectangular opening about a foot
long in the middle of the space between them ; thus,
in the horizontal surface formed by the clothed tops of
the tables, there was an orifice about a foot long and
five inches wide. Underneath the table was the dark
enclosure thus formed by the blankets, and in the
darkness the spirits materialised the hands which they
afterwards thrust up through the opening.
At the beginning of the seance the spirits by raps
ordered the light to be extinguished for two minutes,
but it was put out for rather less than that time as
shown by a watch. The spirits regulated the time,
telling us by raps when to put out the light and when
to relight it. After the candle was relighted (and it was
not again extinguished) it was placed on the floor, some
distance from the sitters, so that a subdued light only
fell upon the orifice between the two tables; still there
was enough light'to see comfortably. Several hands
of different sizes came up one after the other, the hands
of all the sitters being in sight during the whole time.
The size of the hands and the amount of flexibility of
their fingers varied in each manifestation; some of the
hands, including the wrist, came right out over the
side of the table. In every case in which the wrist
was seen, the arm beyond had a tightly-fitting white
sleeve over it. I asked the spirits to let me put my
hand over the orifice, and further requested them to
lay hold of it when I did so. They did this once or
twice, after a little delay. The hands had a velvety
feel, not much like flesh. These hands could take the
hands of Mrs. Hardy and the other sitters more readily
than they could mine, because the spirits were more
accustomed to their influence. The arms belonging to
these hands were more frequently inclined towards the
medium than in any other direction, the average angle
of inclination being towards the knees of Mrs. Hardy.
While the manifestations were going on, the medium
said she felt the spirits drawing power from her, and
chiefly from the ends of her fingers, her hands, and her
arms. She said that the sensation was something like
that of water flowing down her arms. The other sitters
told me that the seance was a pretty good one, but I
saw that if anybody attended a weak one at which
hands might come up which did not give evidence that
they were living, the test might not be considered to be
of a satisfactory nature. So I asked the spirits—quite
unexpectedly to the medium and all the sitters—if
they could tap my knee, which was under quite a
different part of the table to that near the orifice.
Soon a hand came there, and the different fingers of
the hand began tapping “ Auld Lang Syne” upon my
knee, as if they had a piano there, the hands of all the
other sitters being then clearly in sight. When the
sitters rose from the table they asked me to take the
little temporary cabinet to pieces. I separated the
tables, then examined them, removed all the blankets,
until nothing was left but the bare carpet. I next
removed the blankets which had been nailed over the
windows, and sunlight immediately streamed in upon
the spot where our seance had been held.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
ANNUAL GENEEAL MEETING.
On Wednesday evening last week the annual general meeting
of the British National Association of Spiritualists was held at
the Co-operative Hall, Castle-street, Oxford-street, under the
presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The members present
were—Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
Keningale Cook, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. Frederick Collingwood
(Secretary to the Anthropological Institute), Mr.D. H. Wilson,
M.A., Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. Henry Cook, Mr. Thos.
Everitt, Mr. T. E. Stephens, Mr. Herbert Noyes, Miss Georgiana
Houghton, Mrs. Fitzgerald, Miss H. Withall, Mrs. A. F.
Maltby, Mrs. Rosalie Wilson, Mrs. F. Hudson, Mr. S. Ed-
mands, Rev. Thomas Colley, Mr. John K. Dodd, Mr. E. T.
Bennett, Mr. W. F. Adshead, Mr. J. R. Summers, Mr. William
Horne, Mr. Thomas Blyton, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The President read the rule under which the meeting had
been called, and said that the Secretary would read the report
of the Council.
THE ANNUAL BEPOBT.
The Secretary then read the report, which was unanimously
adopted, as follows :—
Ladies and Gentlemen,—A report of the Secretaries, con¬
taining an account of the origin, growth, proceedings, and
actual position of the Association, was read to you by Mr.
Algernon Joy at the soiree preceding the Spiritualist Confer¬
ence held in London in the month of August last. In the
present report of the Council, therefore, the thread of the
narrative will be taken up from that point, and a slight sketch
will be given you of the work effected since that time.
First, however, the Council would direct your attention to
the present very satisfactory position of the Association, as
one which, in the face of no ordinary difficulties, it could hardly
have been expected to attain to in the short space of time that
it has existed. It is but about eighteen months since its
earliest members responded to the invitation of Mr. Everitt,
after the Liverpool Conference, to form a provisional Council;
and since then the Association has steadily continued to in¬
crease in numbers, power, and importance, until it has been
enabled to instal itself in the handsome and commodious
premises which some of you have already visited at Great
Russell-street. The library, which receives large additions of
books every week, through the liberality of various members,
already numbers some three hundred and fifty volumes, in¬
cluding most of the standard works on Spiritualism and
Mesmerism, and some of the best scientific writings of the day,
besides valuable books of reference, so that our Association
may look forward to possessing in time the most complete and
valuable collection of works on studies most important and
interesting to man that has perhaps ever yet been brought
together.
It is hardly necessary to remind you that our present posi¬
tion has only been achieved by considerable watchfulness and
labour on the part of many members of the Council, and by
the sacrifice of much time and money on the part of others,
and it may be as well to warn you that such sacrifices will pro¬
bably be necessary for some little time to come. It will there¬
fore be for each one of you who hopes to see our Association
continue to flourish to make what efforts you can, that the
burden may not be left to rest too exclusively upon the
shoulders of a few.
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
To retrace our steps to the Conference in August last. In
consequence of a question then raised by some persons who
had attended the Liverpool Conference, as to the right of in¬
dependent action on the part of the Council, some important
resolutions were passed to the effect that the Council as then
constituted be considered elected by the Conference, and that
its decisions remain in force until the Annual General Meet¬
ing in 1875. A clause in the “ Principles and Purposes ”
having been a stumbling block to not a few, it was resolved to
send voting papers to all the members, with a recommendation
from the Council to consent to the striking out of the entire
“ Declaration of Principles and Purposes.” Out of ninety-six
voting papers returned before the next meeting of Council,
eighty-six proved to be “for” the proposed alteration, and
ten “ against.” The “ Principles and Purposes ” were con¬
sequently expunged from the constitution of the Association,
and a digest of the principal clauses was inserted in the
Eules under the head of “ objects.” (See Eule XI.)
About this time the Liverpool Psychological Society, the
most important provincial society of Spiritualists in England,
declared its sympathy with the National Association by enter¬
ing into alliance with us—a very natural step, considering
that we have objects and aims in common, and one which has
led to an increased feeling of fellowship between the individual
members of each society.
The departure of our esteemed friend, the eminent trance
medium, Mr. J. J. Morse, on a lecturing tour in the United
States of America, in the month of October, gave the Associa¬
tion an opportunity of evincing their friendship towards him,
and their appreciation of his efforts in promoting the spread
of Spiritualism in general and the success of the Conference
in particular, by organizing a meeting at the Cleveland Hall,
at which to receive Mr. Morse’s farewell address. The meet¬
ing was largely attended, and was pre-eminently a success.
The Newcastle Society being at this time involved in an action
at law for an assault against certain of its members, the
Council voted the sum of two guineas in aid of the Defence
Fund of the Society. The sum of one guinea was also con¬
tributed towards the expense of the Sunday lectures carried
on by the Marylebone Society, and the same sum towards the
expenses of Mr. Cogman’s Spiritual labours in the East-end
of London.
In the month of November the Council passed a resolution,
at the motion of Mr. Glynes and Mr. Strawbridge, for the
better security of the Association—“ That no debt or liability,
to pay any sum of money be incurred by or on behalf of the
Association, or the Council thereof, unless the same shall first
have been submitted to the Council, and sanctioned * by a
resolution of the majority of members present.” This salutary
measure was agreed to unanimously, and the clauses were
inserted after Eule XX., under the head of “ Finance.”
Towards the end of the year various measures were brought
forward. Mr. A. Calder moved that steps should be taken to
make some provision for the education of the children of
Spiritualists, in order that they might not be subjected to
derision and annoyance from their companions on account of
their medial faculties, and that they might be brought up in
accordance with Spiritualistic views. Mr. Martheze had pre- -
viously offered £200 per annum towards carrying out such a
scheme, and a committee was formed for the purpose of dis¬
cussing the best means to be adopted. Though many persons
sympathised with the plan, it was felt to be too extensive to
bo effectually carried out at present, and was therefore post¬
poned for a time. The proposal of granting prize medals for
the best essay on some subject connected with Spiritualism
was first made to the Council by Mr. Martin E. Smith, who
offered to present a gold medal annually for three years. The
option was subsequently given of £20 in money, and a second
prize of £10 was offered by a gentleman in Scotland. A
circular containing full particulars for the competition has
since been issued, and can he had on application to the
secretary.
The Association being at that time without a meeting-place
and a home, it was suggested that a series of soirees be insti¬
tuted, to promote the sociability of members, and to afford
them an opportunity of introducing inquirers into the move¬
ment. This suggestion was acted on, and though, on account
of the heavy expenses hitherto incurred, the soirees can
hardly be said to have been a financial success, there is no
doubt as to their having answered the chief end in view, and
of having been the means of introducing many outsiders to a
better acquaintance with Spiritualism and Spiritualists.
At the beginning of the New Year active steps were taken
by the Offices Committee to procure some sort of domicile for
, June 4, 1875.
the Association. It was desired that a hall for lecturing pur¬
poses should be combined with business premises. After a
lengthened and unsuccessful search, the idea was abandoned
in favour of offices only; but the difficulty of finding appro¬
priate rooms of this kind was equally great, and at last the
house in Great Eussell-street, at present occupied by the
Association, presented itself, and its commodiousness and
appropriateness to our requirements commend it so entirely
to all visitors, that we have every reason to be thankful for the
choice which the members of our Offices Committee were led
to make on our behalf, especially as, since the institution of
the Eeading-Eoom, the resources of Ithe Association have been
considerably increased, both by larger subscriptions, by hand¬
some donations in money, and by valuable gifts in books,
drawings, and scientific apparatus.
The appointment of a resident secretary followed upon this
step, at a salary of £150 per annum.
The heavy expenses of furnishing and house-rent will be
chiefly met by the generosity of those who have contributed
towards the guarantee fund, which was formed expressly to
prevent the Association from falling into debt, in View of the
inevitable strain upon its resources during the first few years
of its existence. Should the Association continue to gain
confidence and to increase its numbers so satisfactorily as it is
doing at the present time, there is every reason to hope that
at the expiration of the three years for which the guarantee
fund was raised, it will be strong enough to stand alone, with¬
out such subsidiary help. Since the month of November last,
nearly one hundred members have been added to our list. Among
these is Mr. Charles Blackburn, who has already shown himself
a most generous supporter, Dr. Wm. Hitchman, of Liverpool,
and others whose names are well known to you. To our
honorary members have been added the names of Dr. Maxi¬
milian Perty, and Dr. Franz Hoffmann, both eminent pro¬
fessors at Geman universities; Dr. Eugene Crowell, the
talented author of ’Primitive Christianity and Modem Spirit¬
ualism; Dr. H. T. Child, Dr. G. L. Ditson, and Mr. and Mrs.
Murray Spear, all of the United States; Mr. W. L. Sammons,
of Cape Town, and M. Clavairoz, the French Consul at
Trieste. We have lately received an application from a
Turkish Pasha, present Governor-General of a province
of Turkey in Asia, for the rank of honorary member; it
is therefore not too much to say that the fame of our Asso¬
ciation is going forth into all lands, and that we are becoming[a
medium of communication between the nations of all the earth.
The literature of Spiritualism in many languages may be
found upon our library tables, and the works of the best
German and French Spiritualist writers upon our shelves.
With regard to our finances, the last report of the Finance
Committee showed a balance in hand of £79 6s. 2d., with out¬
standing liabilities of about £30; but it should be stated that
over seventy members have notlyet paid their subscriptions for
the year, and an average of six new members is being added
at each meeting of Council. Since the opening of the
reading-room sixteen members have paid guinea subscrip¬
tions, by which they are admitted to all the privileges of the
library. The last registered number of subscribers to the
Association is 302 ; from this a deduction of 16 must be made
for those who have resigned membership, and one who has
passed away from earth.
The last important step attempted by the Council was an
application to the Board of Trade for the registration of the
Association as a corporate body, under the 23rd section of the
Companies Act, which provides for the registration of societies
formed for the promotion of science, art, religion, charity, or
any other useful object. The Board replied that they must
decline to entertain our application, as they did not consider
that the objects of our society brought it within the meaning
of the Act. The Council considering that the Board of Trade
might not be sufficiently acquainted with our objects, a second
letter was sent, giving them fuller information thereon. The
final answer of the Board has been, however, no more favour¬
able than the first, and we must remain, for the present at
least, an Unregistered society.
Two other subjects of importance are now occupying the
attention of special committees appointed by the Council.
One is for the formation of a philosophical department for
carrying on scientific experiments in connection with Spirit¬
ualism, as suggested in a letter read by Mr. W. H. Harrison at
the last meeting of the Council. The other is the considera¬
tion of a plan for the employment of mediums and the forma¬
tion of circles to be held on the premises of the Association.
Both these measures are as yet in their infancy, and will, from
their importance, probably require some time to work out.
273
June 4, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.
Such is the history of the work which the retiring Council
has achieved, or attempted to achieve, for the Association.
In resigning their seats, its members desire to thank you for
the confidence which you have placed in them. Above all,
they desire to acknowledge with gratitude the higher guidance
which has directed their efiorts, and led them so far to a suc¬
cessful issue.
NEW MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.
The Secretary then read a list of the names of the new
members of Council, who were elected by virtue of their nomi¬
nation. The following are the new members:—
W. P. Adshead, W. Armfield, E. P. Ashton, J. Beattie, E.
T. Bennett, J. Brown, C. Blackburn, W. E. Bassett, F. A.
Binney, A. Calder, B. Coleman, J. Chapman, K. Cook, B.
Cooper, W. Crosland, S. Chinnery, S. Chadwick, Bev. T.
Colley, N. F. Dawe, G. H. Dawson, J. T. Dodd, T. Everitt,
Mrs. Everitt, B. Fitton, Mr. Fitz-Gerald, D. G. Fitz-Gerald,
Mrs. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, J. Freeman, B. Gale, Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, J. M. Gully, J. H. Gledstanes, A. Glendinning, B.
Harper, T. Hinde, W. Hitchman, Miss Houghton, Mrs. Hony-
wood, H. T. Humphreys, Geo. Hudson, Dr. T. Hayle, C. Hunt,
Sir C. Isham, I. Ivimey, Capt. James, H. D. Jencken, A. Joy;
G. King, J. Lamont, A. E. Lovell, A. Leighton, Mrs. Maltby,
J. J. Morse, W. B. Manson, W. D. Meers, Mrs. Nosworthy, W.
Oxley, B. Pearce, Dr. C. Pearce, Mrs. Eamsay, E. Dawson.
Bogers, Mrs. E. D. Bogers, M. B. Smith, Dr. S. T. Speer, Bev.
W. F. Short, Geo. Sexton, J. Shepperd, Mrs. Showers, G. W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. Strawbridge, A. C. Swinton, G. F. Snelling,
G. B. Tapp, Morell Theobald, Mrs. M. Theobald, Dr. B. M.
Theobald, D. H. Wilson, Mrs. Wiseman, J. Wason, Miss H.
Withall, H. Withall, J. White, H. Wedgwood, Mrs. Wood, and
Mrs. Wicks.
Mr. E. Dawson Bogers said that it had been necessary to
slightly modify the constitution of the Association before
sending in the same to the Board of Trade, when it was in¬
tended to enrol the organisation, but the new constitution
differed very slightly from the old one, which, among other
things, enacted that there should be seventy members of
Council. As there were already pressing.claims to elect new
members, several Spiritualists who could give valuable help to
the Association would probably have been shut out from the
Council had the number been still limited to seventy, so it was
thought good that the list should be extended to one hundred.
After this had been done, the members of the Association
nominated those whom they thought eligible to serve on the
Council, and the said nominations included eighty-nine
members, who consequently were elected. If more instead
of less than one hundred had been nominated, it would have
been necessary to have had a contested election, which he
was rather glad had been avoided. He would move that
Mr. Harrison be requested to publish the list of the new
members in the earliest possible number of The Spiritualist.
Mr. Morell Theobald seconded this, and it was passed
unanimously.
Mr. Harrison said that he should have much pleasure in
publishing it as desired.
THE BAZAAR.
Mr.E. D.Eogers said that in view of the circumstances under
which they had met that evening on the premises in which the
bazaar for the benefit of the Association was then being held,
he thought that the meeting should thank the friends who
had contributed to and done all the work in connection with
the bazaar for their great kindness. Many of them were then
busy at work attending to the stalls. The proposed vote of
thanks perhaps came with all the more force from him,
because when the bazaar was first suggested he thought
that it would be a failure; but he had seen enough of what
had been done in it that day to be tolerably certain that it would
be a success. (Applause,) It was very pleasing to see what
a large quantity of beautiful goods had been sent in by friends,
without any undue pressure or solicitation. For many days
past the articles had been pouring in. He thought, there¬
fore, that it would be only right at that general meeting to
pass a vote of thanks to the friends who had contributed to
the bazaar, and to those who were kindly assisting at the
stalls.
This was seconded by Mr. Tapp, and passed unanimously
with acclamation.
SPECIAL SUPPORTERS OF THE ASSOCIATION.
Mr. H. D. Jencken said that he would move a vote of thanks
to their chairman that evening—Mr. Alexander Galder—and
he desired to include in the vote of thanks two other gentle¬
men who had done a great deal to aid the Association, namely,
Mr. Martin B. Smith and Mr. Charles Blackburn. All three
gentlemen had contributed large sums to establish the organi¬
sation. Further, Mr. Martin Smith and Mr. Calder had done
what Mr. Blackburn was unable to do, because he lived such
a distance from London. They had personally given a very
large amount of time and energy in aid of the transaction of
the ordinary business of the Association. (Applause.)
Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., seconded the vote of thanks, and
remarked that Mr. Calder was one of the last whom he had
converted to Spiritualism.
The vote of thanks was then carried amid loud applause.
Mr. Calder said—I thank you very much, and I hope that
our services will continue to be given in that spirit in which
they are received. (Applause.)
The meeting then broke up.
PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
LETTER FROM M. LEYHA^E TO ENGLISH SPIRITUALISTS.
Great anxiety prevails among Spiritualists in Paris
in relation to the persecution of M. Leymarie, the
editor of the Revue Spirits, and the imprisonment of
the medium, Mr. Firman, chiefly in consequence of the
assertions of the scoundrel Buguet. M. Leymarie is
now at liberty for a time, on bail, and has sent us the
following letter:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Permit me to offer you my cordial thanks for the
friendly interest expressed by The Spiritualist in regard to the
severe annoyances to which I have recently been subjected,
and to make, through its columns, a brief statement of my
present position.
Though now released from prison on bail, I am about to be
tried on a charge of complicity in the frauds of a medium who
has unhappily been unable to resist the temptations to which
professional mediumship is peculiarly exposed.
After having seized and examined the books, papers, and
correspondence of the Soci&e Anonyme, of which I am the
administrator, the authorities here are fully convinced that
this society has always been strictly honourable and straight¬
forward in all its transactions, and that in its notices of
mediums and manifestations in its Revue it has never been
influenced by any other motive than the desire of disseminat¬
ing knowledge upon the great question of our day. But
Buguet, moved by considerations which I will not now enlarge
upon, has stated that I was cognisant of his deception—a
statement which I declare to be an utterly baseless calumny;
and he has further stated, in his declaration to the police, that
he is not, and has never professed to be, a medium, that all
who profess to be mediums are rogues and charlatans, and
that all who profess to believe in the existence of the medial
faculty are liars or fools.
Thus—according to Buguet’s declaration, and according to
those who are using him for their own purposes—to study
Spiritist phenomena in company with tens of thousands of
serious investigators, to admit their importance, and to pub¬
lish the results of such investigation in a periodical, is to
commit a crime and to subject yourself to imprisonment and
prosecution as a wilful deceiver, if it suits the interests of a
self-convicted scoundrel to declare that you were mistaken
in representing him as a medium, even though that scoundrel
himself declares (as Buguet has done) that you had no pecu¬
niary or other interest in aiding his deception !
Believing that our brethren on your side of the Channel
274
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 4, 1875
will recognise the importance to the canse of Spiritism in
general of enabling my counsel, M. Lachaud, to bring for¬
ward ample and weighty testimony to the reality of the spirit
manifestations which is the real object of the attack directed
against my humble personality, I ask the aid of your extensive
publicity in enabling me to appeal to them to aid me by fur¬
nishing me with all the evidence—oral, or by properly-attested
affidavits—which may tend to establish the reality of spirit
photographs, and thus procure my acquittal at the approach¬
ing trial by showing that genuine spirit photographs have
really been obtained by Buguet and other mediums, and that,
consequently, the publication of statements to that effect in
the periodical of which I am the editor is not a fair ground
for assuming deception and collusion on my part.—I am, sir,
yours faithfully, P. Leymabie.
Bureau Spirite, 7, Hue de Lille, Paris, May 30,1875.
M. Gustave de Yeh writes to us :—
There are numbers of persons who have stated that they
have recognised departed friends in the photographs obtained
by Buguet in London. Leymarie asks, prays, implores you
to procure for him the written and signed declarations of those
persons, saying in as few words as they like that they re¬
cognised the portraits obtained photographically through
Buguet’s mediumship. That is all.
It is to be hoped that those who obtained the re¬
cognised portraits will accede to the request now pub¬
lished, and forward their attestations at price to M.
Gustave de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs Elysees, Paris.
We have received the following letter from Mr.
O’Sullivan, who is working most energetically in giving
M. Lachaud, the counsel of Messrs. Leymarie and Eir-
man, information about the facts of Spiritualism :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—All that I have to communicate to you this week is,
that the instruction of the three accused mediums is at last
closed, or about closing. The juge d’instruction then remits
to the Procureur General (who is the head of the parquet or
prosecuting department of the administration of justice) the
dossier or papers in the case, including the records of his own
interrogation of the accused parties and such other testimony
as he has taken, together with his own report and conclusions,
and also all the material objects which have been seized (the
pieces de conviction). The next step follows inevitably, namely,
the papers, etc., going to the chambre des mises ey, accusation,
where what we call the indictment is elaborated, and the parties
are ordered for trial. The judge presiding at the public trial,
and also the public prosecutor, prepare themselves for the trial
by the story of this dossier, to which the counsel of the accused
have also access. It is a small miracle in France when the
trial proper reverses the result of what I may call the trial
improper, or the private ex-parte inquisition already gone
through, during which the accused has had no benefit of
counsel, no cross-examination, and has been kept in prison
without communication with family or friends. The presiding
judge generally brings a mind pretty well made up against the
accused. All presumptions go against him, and in support of
the conclusions of the previous private inquisition he is guilty
before trial. The judge often hunts him down in his interro¬
gations like an animal destined necessarily to be caught
and killed at the close of the chase. The judge is the
chief examiner and cross-examiner on the trial; he must be a
man of rare elevation of the judicial mind and conscienee
who can escape the influence of this system upon himself, and
be a just and true judge in the English and American sense of
that high term. When to this you add antipathy to Spirit¬
ualism, total ignorance of it, absolute disbelief in the pos¬
sibility of its being anything but imposture, you will share
my serious apprehensions as to the issue of the approaching
trial of our two friends Leymarie and Firman, even were their
innocence tenfold more certain than it certainly is. God send
them a safe deliverance!
I am told that the trial will come off in about three weeks.
M. Leymarie has retained the eminent advocate Lachaud;
Firman’s friends have secured for bim a lawyer of high re¬
spectability and standing, M. Carraby, but I fail to see how the
best of counsel can do proper justice to the case of their clients
in reference to a subject about which they probably share
both the ignorance and the prejudices of their community and
of the tribunal they address.
M. Leymarie has at least the advantage of being at liberty
on bail. Poor Firman, unfortunately, cumulates the offence of
being a medium with that of being a foreigner. Neither does
his counsel speak English nor he French. The judge has thus
far refused to admit him to bail, while even the confessed im¬
postor Buguet has been at liberty over a month on that of
£40. The ground he puts it upon is that a foreigner, having
no root in the country, is more likely than a Frenchman to
make off. This would be a fair reason for making a difference
in the amount of bail required, but seems a very poor one for
its refusal altogether, when, after all, the offence charged is
not one of the graver sort—except perhaps to the clerical
mind. This is the harder upon poor Firman, because his case
requires time to prove the possibility and the reality of
materialisation, and the only effectual means of reaching the
minds of those who are to judge him would be to invite them
to a seance under test conditions. To do this in his present
situation is impossible. He looks extremely ill. Several
seances of preliminary attempt and practice would probably be
required. Belief to his mind and improvement in his health
would doubtless be necessary conditions to success. After his
scene at Mdme. Huguet’s he could not at first obtain any
success, though a little later he was able, on four occasions, to
show the Indian spirit distinct and apart from himself, to the
De Yere family (at their own house), and to Mr. Gledstanes
and the Count de Bullet. He had appointed a seance at which
he expected to show the same thing to a number of other
persons, including three journalists, but it was prevented by
his arrest. He had also intended to invite again some of the
signers of the proces verbal. If now at liberty, he would be
able to invite the judges, counsel, and the prosecuting pro¬
cureur, and if they should not choose to see with their own
eyes they would at least have to hear with their ears the testi¬
mony of those who had seen what they had refused the invi¬
tation to see. His means and fair chance of defence are
thus seriously hindered by the judge refusing to admit him
to bail because he is a foreigner. I am making an effort to
convince the judge of the wrongfulness of this refusal, and do
not despair of success, though it may be necessary to invoke
the intervention of the American Minister. It would certainly
be a curious feature in the affair if the judges could be brought
to witness materialisation, and then to bear witness to it—
like the prophet who was sent to curse but whom the spirit of
the Lord compelled to bless.
The trial promises to be a highly interesting one. Buguet’s
stage properties will of course figure dramatically on a table,
namely, his mannikin draped in white (about twelve or fifteen
inches high), and his museum of heads designed to be stuck
on its neck. There are Indian ink drawings of his own on
card-board, he being a f acile and clever artist as well as a first-
rate photographer. If he succeeds in his present cunning
line of policy, that of earning the favour of the enemies of
Spiritualism, he will probably get off with a light penalty for
the mere offence (not to call it the merit) of having hum¬
bugged the Spiritualists, and then dug them a deep blow under
the fifth rib, to be followed by a great vogue as an ordinary
photographer, apart from whatever other reward such service
may be considered to have earned. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, May 30tli.
Miss Anna Blackwell writes :—
In the coming trial it is of the utmost importance to bring
forward really weighty evidence to the reality of the phenomena
especially of materialisations and spirit photographs. If Mr.
Crookes, Mr. Varley, and others of their standing would appear
at the trial, the society here would pay their expenses. But
even the collection of affidavits will be of essential service.
Lachaud says: “ Bring forward such evidence, and I promise
you the trial will do an immense service to Spiritualism.’,’
Buguet’s libel about M. Leymarie is that be stood for
the photographs, knowing them to be false, but at the
same time he adds that M. Leymarie had no pecuniary
interest in the matter.
Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s.—On Thursday last week,
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, W., gave a reception to spiritualistic and other friends,
among whom were the Bev. Cosmo Gordon, D.D., the Bev.
Maurice Davies, the Bev. Mr. Fisher, the Bev. Mr. Shaw, Mrs.
Shaw, Mrs. Gordon, Miss Gordon, Mr. Hamilton, Miss Hope,
Mr. Bennett, Mr. Wedgwood, Mr. Coffin, Mr. Peele, Mrs.
Strong, the Misses Strong, General Brewster, Mrs. Bamsay*
Miss Bamsay, Miss Katharine Poyntz, Miss Inglis, Mrs. Dims-
dale, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
June 4, 1875,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
275
A SEANCE WITH MRS. FAY.
On Thursday evening last week Mrs. Annie Eva Fay kindly
gave a seance in aid of the Bazaar of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, at the Co-operative Hall, Castle-
street, Oxford-street, London, and many well-known Spirit-
nalists were present on the occasion.
Mr. Fay announced that he and Mrs. Fay had recently been
giving public seances in the provinces, and that at those
seances they took the same ground which they had occupied
both at the Crystal Palace and at the Hanover-square Booms,
that is to say, they presented the phenomena to the public,
and asked them to form their own opinions as to the cause.
Personally they had their own belief as to the cause, for they
believed the manifestations to be produced by spirits, and
Mrs. Fay was quite sure they were due to some power outside
herself. (Applause.) An announcement had been made in
the Medium that he (Mr. Fay) had made a public statement
that the facts could not be accounted for except by conjuring.
That statement had no foundation in truth; he never said
anything of the kind. He should be glad if some of the
strongest disbelievers present that evening would come for¬
ward and tie Mrs. Fay inside the cabinet.
Three gentlemen then came forward. One announced him¬
self to be Mr. Walter Miller, solicitor, of London Wall; the
second, Dr. Schneider, of 67, Strand; and the third, Mr.
Walter Charlton, of Maryland Point, Stratford, E.
These three gentlemen examined the cabinet; then they
proceeded to bind Mrs. Fay’s arms firmly behind her back with
strips of calico, and they sewed their knots afterwards with
thread.
Mr. Fay remarked that at the Hanover-square Booms he did
most of the tying himself, because the committees there bungled
over it; but as the spectators objected to his doing the tying,
he now left it to be done by the committees appointed by the
audiences. (Applause.)
Mrs. Fay’s hands having been secured behind her, they were
next tied to an iron ring in the head of a screw fixed right
through the back of the cabinet. A strip of calico was then
tied round her neck and secured to another iron ring. Then
Mr. Fay tied her feet together with a thin rope, and brought
the end of the rope out upon the platform, where it was held
by one of the committee-men. Under these conditions the
manifestations so often described took place. First Mr. Fay
placed a strip of calico over her shoulders; he then allowed
the curtain of the cabinet to drop for an instant, and on raising
it the piece of calico had its ends tied together in a double
knot. The committee then examined the fastenings which
secured Mrs. Fay, and announced that she was tied as tightly
as at first.
Several other manifestations took place each time the cur¬
tain was dropped. At last Mr. Schneider asked for permission
to stand behind the cabinet while the results were being pro¬
duced. This request was readily acceded to.
At one part of the seance Mr. Charlton was asked by Mr.
Fay to take a seat inside the cabinet, and to hold Mrs. Fay, in
order to testify that she did not move while the spirits were
playing upon the instruments. Mr. Fay remarked that when
Mrs. Fay opened her eyes while the manifestations were going
on the instruments sometimes fell to the ground, and expe¬
rienced Spiritualists well knew that the glance of the eyes
had a weakening influence upon the effects. He therefore
asked permission to tie a handkerchief over the eyes of Mr.
Charlton.
This was done. While Mr. Charlton held Mrs. Fay in the
cabinet the musical instruments were heard playing as before.
When Mr. Charlton came out he said that Mrs. Fay had not
moved, that the instruments had played, and that he had
been patted with living hands.
Here a gentleman mounted the platform and asked permis¬
sion to join the committee. He said that his name was
Taylor, and that his address was 83, 84, and 85, Gresham-
house, Broad-street. He was allowed to join the committee
as requested, and the manifestations went on as usual.
A gentleman in the audience wanted to know why the cur¬
tain had to be dropped at all while the manifestations were
going on ?
Mr. Fay replied that physical mediumship depended upon
conditions not well understood; but that will-power, light, and
the gaze of spectators had each a weakening effect upon the
manifestations, as all who had gained experience in private
circles could testify. When the medium was isolated, and cut
off from all these weakening influences, the chances of success
were much greater.
At the close of the seance a man rose, and in a rough and
ungentlemanly manner insisted that the bonds at the wrists
had been cut, and that Mrs. Fay’s hands had been free all
through the seance; he therefore called upon the committee
not to cut her free from her bonds, since the pieces of calico
were already cut, as they would discover if they were to search
properly. He therefore demanded that they should untie and
not cut the bonds at all.
After considerable hubbub from various speakers, Mrs. Fay
agreed to be untied by the committee.
The committee then spent ten minutes in untying her, the
work being very difficult, the more especially because they had
sewn their own knots with thread, and because knotted strips
of soft calico are in themselves not easy things to unravel.
After working for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour they
freed Mrs. Fay’s neck, also her hands to such an extent as to
be able to see that they were not free, and that the calico had
not been cut anywhere. At this stage they cut her free from
her bonds to save time.
Mr. Everitt then mounted the platform, and said that Mr.
and Mrs. Fay had come , all the way from Malvern, without
any payment, to give that seance for the benefit of the Na¬
tional Association of Spiritualists. He therefore thought that
a public apology ought to be given to them for the insult
offered by the man who had intimated that they were impostors.
In the name of the meeting he desired to tender them a public
apology.
These remarks were followed by tremendous applause.
The seance then came to an end.
Ybet large additions of valuable books have been made
to the library of the National Association of Spiritualists.
Particulars will be published next week.
Me. and Mrs. Hardy left for the Continent last Friday,
intending to remain there for a month. They state that they
will afterwards return to London, and for a few weeks Mrs.
Hardy will give seances as an “ unconscious trance medium
they say, also, that she may possibly give a few of her mate¬
rialisation seances.
Last week Mrs. Elgie Corner (Florence Cook), with her
sister-in-law, Miss Caroline Corner, paid a- few days’ visit, by
invitation, to Mr. Blackburn’s family at Parkfield, near Man¬
chester. A seance was tried at a friend’s house, but only
resulted in obtaining several sentences on a slate under the
table, written with a crumb of pencil, one hand of .the medium
being on the table while the other was holding the slate.
Spiritirausm and the Devil.—Last Sunday evening
the Bev. Mr. Moran, Incumbent of St. Stephen’s, Twickenham,
preached at the Licensed Victuallers’ Asylum Chapel, in aid of
the funds for endowing that excellent institution. His subject
was “ The Bich Man and Lazarus,” which he treated in an
extemporaneous discourse of considerable power. With
reference to “ The great gulf fixed,” the purport of his teaching
was this : That the “ gulf” was impassable to angels of light,
ergo, any spirits who come to visit the inhabitants of this
world must be from the other side of the gulf, namely, from
the devil. Q.E.D. Where the spirits came from which, at
least informer times, according to the Scriptures, were servants
of the Most High, sent to do His bidding and fulfil His wishes,
the preacher did not say. What he did allege was, that all
spirits coming now to communicate with us are from the
devil, and not engaged in God’s work or any good work.
Dr. Sexton’s Lectures.—On Sunday evening last Dr.
Sexton delivered a discourse at Goswell Hall, on the subject of
“Christian Morality; its Nature and Value as an Ethical
Code.” A good audience was in attendance, all of whom ap¬
peared pleased with the discourse, which consisted of an
elaborate investigation into the moral condition of ancient
peoples, and a criticism of the ethical theories of Hobbs,
Mandevil, Cudworth, Hume, Dr. Samuel Clarke, Paley, Dr.
Johnson, Bentham, Beid, Dugald Stewart, Dr.Brown, J. Stuart
Mill, and others, and a comparison of these with the moral
principles of Christianity. The object of the lecturer was to
show that Christianity introduced into ethics a “ method” and
a “ power” never met with in heathen systems, and which
could not have been reached by civilisation. Next Sunday a
discourse will be delivered, by Mr. W. H. Aston Peake, on
“ Angels.” The Spiritualists of Yeovil have secured the ser¬
vices of Dr. Sexton for Sunday next, when he will deliver two
discourses in the Town Hall on the following subjects—After¬
noon, “Eternal Punishment;” evening, “Science and the
Bible.”
276
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 4, 1875,
(Emesponuence.
[Qrtat frttdom it given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE CASE OE ME. COLES.
Sib,—Many thanks for yonr kindness in making known to
all oar dear friends, in the caase of trath and righteousness,
the needs of a brother and sister in humanity, Mr. and Mrs.
Coles; and many thanks for the hearty response made by con¬
tributors. May the love of God thus shown permeate every
heart, especially those of Spiritualists, who. are now being
pointed at by the religious world as madmen, fools, and children
of the devil.
For the benefit of Spiritualists generally, I add the following
quotations from the Bible (Luke vi. 35, 36)Love ye your
enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again;
and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be children of the
Highest, for He is kind to the unthankful and evil. Be ye
therefore merciful, as your Father is also merciful.”
I have great pleasure in stating that Miss Kislingbury has
visited Mr. and Mrs. Coles several times. Such visits are of
great value to those who need sympathy.
This letter comes from one who is hopeful of better things
and brighter days. Edwabd Kipps.
63, New Oompton-street, Soho.
Sib,—I am glad to tell you that, through the kind liberality
of a few friends, Mr. and Mrs. Coles have been relieved from
their extreme destitution, and have been enabled to leave
London, after paying all their debts and rescuing their pro¬
perty from pawn.
Since the first prospect of a release from his load of debt
and poverty, Mr. Coles began to improve in health, and I
hope that, under more favourable conditions, he may regain
sufficient strength to earn a livelihood.
A lady, whose life is devoted to good works, has kindly
given the poor strangers a temporary shelter at her home, near
Cardiff, where she will introduce them to as many friends as
possible.
I now write on behalf of Mr. and Mrs. Coles, to thank all
those friends who, by their timely generosity, have saved a
brother and sister from the brink of starvation and despair.
Emil? Kislingbury.
38, Great Eu^sell-street, W.C.
SPIBITTJALISM IN NEWCASTLE.
Sib,—Newcastle is under great obligations to the mediumship
of Miss Wood and Miss Fairlamb for its pre-eminently success¬
ful development of phenomena. Improvising a day’s outing,
Mr. Armstrong, florist and seedsman, kindly invited the mem¬
bers and their friends to spend Whit Monday afternoon in his
extensive and picturesque grounds at Elswick; and the weather
being all that we could desire, over two hundred regaled them¬
selves on the occasion. Such an agreeable opportunity was
embraced to mark not only our obligations to, but our great
regard and esteem for, both Miss Wood and Miss Fairlamb.
For a considerable time their services to the Newcastle society
had been literally entirely voluntary; and though they can no
longer be so described, we can aver that the relationship is
only nominally changed, as their services are still as un¬
remitting as ever they were, and their remuneration just
adequate to justify us to ask them to take that care of them¬
selves which favours the production of the best and highest
phenomena. After tea the company seated themselves beneath
the rich foliage of a miniature forest, when Mr. Armstrong,
the president of the society, rose, and in an appropriate
address, presented Miss Wood with a richly inlaid dressing
case, a handsomely bound album, and a gold guard ; to Miss
Fairlamb he presented a gold watch and chain, not only as a
slight token of personal esteem, but as a mark of satisfaction
at the results obtained through their mediumship, after a
most crucial investigation recently in London. One of the
investigators has written to us: “I must write, if only to tell
you how exceedingly pleased every one has been with Miss
Fairlamb and Miss Wood. There has been but one opinion
about them, and every one who has attended their seances has
joined in our own feeling of real respect and regard for them.
They were always modest, sensible, unaffected, good natured,
complying with our very stringent tests with a most ready
good humour, and falling with natural good manners into the
tone of our circle. Some of our seances have been remarkably
good. There have been, as we expected, several failures, but
the successes have far outweighed them.” Z.
Newcastle.
Next Tuesday evening Captain E. F. Burton will read
two papers before the Anthropological Institute, at ,4, St.
Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-square.
Me. Z. Test, the American gentleman who for some
weeks has been a witness of the manifestations at the house of
the Baron and Baroness Yon Yay in Hungary, is now at
Tubingen, Wiirtemberg, on his way to London, and he may
be expected here shortly.
Mbs. Tappan’s Appointments.—Mrs. Tappan’s series of
inspirational addresses in Cavendish Booms will terminate for
this season next Sunday evening, June 6th. She will leave
for the north during next week, and will speak in Liverpool
on the 12th and 14th inst. Other engagements in the north
will be limited in number as she requires rest. She will
probably visit Scotland before returning. Mrs. Tappan has
been invited to visit Cornwall, and intends to do so in
November.
A Medium; in a Quaxeb’s Meeting.—The London
correspondent of the Scotsman telegraphed to that journal on
the night of the 19th May last—“ A meeting of the ministers
and elders of the Society of Friends was held to-day in
Houndsditch Church, but it was not till this morning that
the annual meeting of the society was formally opened. The
one meeting-house was densely crowded with Friends, and
the other was nearly full. Mr. Bright was present. At the
very outset of the proceedings a most unusual incident occurred.
A stranger, whose accent betrayed that he was an American,
and who by some means was supposed to be a Spiritualist,
arose in the most conspicuous part of the meeting-house, and
informed the congregation that he had come with a message
from the spirit world. The message was that they ought to
reject the divinity of Christ, and the doctrine of atonement.
When the attendants at the yearly meeting had recovered
from their surprise, a female member of the congregation
answered the stranger very effectually, and his remarks were
used as a text by more than one subsequent speaker. He pro¬
bably belongs to a body of American heterodox Quakers, called
Hicksites, many of whom are Spiritualists.”
ANSWEXS TO COEKESPONDENTS.
Many letters, some of which are in type, are kept over for want of
space this week. Complaints have reached us of the tardy supply
of The Spiritualist. London Spiritualists who order it by post from
38, Great Bussell-street, or 11, Ave Maria-lane, get it on Thurs¬
day nights, and provincial Spiritualists get it on Friday morn¬
ings. Any London newsvendor who does not post it on Thurs¬
day nights to subscribers delays it on purpose. Letters have
been received by last American mail from Messrs. B. Dale Owen,
Epes Sargent, and Colonel Olcott.
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURES,
ON SUNDAY EVENINGS AT 7 p.m.,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMER-STREET, W.
THIRD AND FINAL COURSE OF SIX LECTURES.
May 2.—1. “Further Experiences in Spirit Life,” by the late Judge
Edmonds. May 9.-2. “ Spiritual Chemistry,” by the late Professor
Mapes. May 16.—3. “ Moral and Spiritual Healing,” by the late Dr.
Bush. May 23.—4. “ Experiences in Spirit Life, and in Communicating
with Mortals, by the late Adin Augustus Ballon. May 30.—5. “ The
Harmony and Divinity of all Religions,” by the late Theodore Parker.
June 6.—6. “The Spiritual Cosmos,” by the Whole Band of Twelve
Guides.
Bishop Auckland.—a Meeting wm be-held at tbe
Turkish Baths, Clyde-terrace, on Sunday Evening, June 6th, to
take into consideration the propriety of making suitable acknowledgment
to Mr. and Mrs. Fawcett for the service rendered to the cause of Spirit¬
ualism in the town and neighbourhood. All friends are hereby earnestly
requested to attend. J. Gibson, Hon. Sec.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c ,
in London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
June 4, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iu
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seduces at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock, each
evening. Address as above.
"RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, twill give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended,
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MR. W. Gk SCORET, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-busb,
W, Please write.
'ISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
'R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon [as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
BR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefitted. By letters only, under cover,. to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MRS. OLJ.YE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD,. N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative (Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily1, from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and I'emediea. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
FM. PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings it la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sittine. Address, 6, Gay.aes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
WANTED TO PURCHASE.—A complete Set of bound
volumes of the Spiritval Magazine. Please apply, stating price
and condition of volumes, to X, care of E. W. Allen, 11, Ave M&ria-lane,
London, E.C.
WHY RUIN YOUR SYSTEMS by the Continual Use
of Medicinal Narcotics, when you may Secure Health-giving
Sleep by a little Study of Nature’s Laws ?
Dr. Moses Bigg, 17, Pakenham-street, London, W.C., teacher of the
Mesmeric and Biological Sciences.
All should read his pamphlet gratis hy post Id. stamp.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, <fec.,' &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &c., to he obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev; John Paul, Rector of St.
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espo
daily by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th, 1875.
Pnblished by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.
BEYEBJDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, diaries, Farkflelfl, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Oalder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-bill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19,-Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balbam, S.W.
IHonywood, Mrs., 52, Warwiek-square, S.W.,
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. F., 8, Harlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fi+z-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W .
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square,Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park. W.
James, Capt. J , Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Cluh, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40,Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, Londou-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool
Noyes, T. Herbert, Jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M. A, M.D., LL.D., &c.,17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, TJpton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’Srhill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Wallut on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron YonVay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Yon Yay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Rikb, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J.Tyerman,Editor [Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs KJora L. Y. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S.A.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russel
street, Melbourne, Yictoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veil, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. 0. Wittig, Esq., Numherger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
Dr. G .L. Ditson, Albany, New York, tJ.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town Africa.
V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 4, 1875,
EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
SPmiTtJAUSM deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised Countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adain-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., GK Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J-. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Q-. Fenton
Cameron, Esq, M.D.; John Chapman, Esq, M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq, M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte ;James Edmunds, Esq, M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq, F.G.S.;' Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq, C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Eoberts, Esq,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee
“George Cary, Esq, B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq, Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq, Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W.H. Swepston, Esq, Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq, F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at tho time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be ho interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds d^es no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the'table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief Or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood; If three signals be given'in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt-
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Bobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London\ Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Bichardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London .—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI¬
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 am. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, Principals.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. TyermAN,
Price Threepence. To be had of W.H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free, it is a number compiled specially for the information
or enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOE, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVEB PLACE, REGENT’S PABK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
r no THE GUARDIANS OF ORPHAN GENTLEWOMEN,
JL or others deprived of the advantages of a Home Circle. A Lady of
unsectarian and liberal views wishes to receive into her house Three
Young Ladies from the age of sixteen, in order to complete their studies
by means of the classes held at ihe Crystal Palace School of Art,
where thb best masters are engaged. Board and residence, exclusive of
school fees, 120 guineas per annum. Young ladies of good family from the
Continent or the Colonies would be acceptable. Address Y Z, Nicnolls,
Newsagent, Upper Norwood.   
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer,
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Published by E. W.
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published oi>
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly..
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st, of every month. Price,
1 franc. ^ Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie. •
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.0,
