AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGISTERED FOB TBANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 131.——(Vol. VI.—No. 9.) LONDON: FEBRUARY 26? 1875. Pablished Weekly; Price Twopence.
(ftontetus.
Strange Powers of the Spirits of Sleeping Mortals:—Physical Effects
Produced by the Spirit of a Mesmeric Sensitive—Mental Impres¬
sions Produced by one Sleeping Person upon another—Photo¬
graphing the Spirits of Sleeping Persons    ... 97
Spirit Teachings. No. XX.VII. ... ... ...     99
A “Test” from the Delphic Oracle. By St. George W. Stock, B.A.
(Oxori) ... ... ... '     ... ... 101
Beorganisation among South London Spiritualists:—Election of Council
and Officers—Suggested Titles for the Society—Prospectus of the
Society—Subscriptions—The Library—Place of Meeting—Lecture
by Mr. D. H. Wilson     x 102
A Reincarnated Baby     103
Extraordinary Spiritual Manifestations in Manchester. By William
Oxley     103
Poetry:—Who Made You? Two Sonnets ...  104
Correspondence:—Spiritualism and Theological Dogmas — Spiritual
Manifestations in Brighton—Seance with Mrs. Comer (Florence
Cook) — Private Seances in Manchester—Prevision at Oxford—
Christ Healing the Sick—The Entrance to Spirit-Life—The Cure
of Disease by Mesmerism ... ... ...' 104
A Seance with Secularists at Birmingham  108
Paragraphs:—Impediments to Spiritual Communion, 100; Apartments
for Seances Wanted, 101; Spiritualism in Hungary, 104; Spirit¬
ualism in Liverpool, 108; Spiritualism in Dalston  108
Answer to Correspondent 108
X>ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 1870.)
President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.R.I., F.E.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black.
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Comer.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. B Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) .|The coUection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view,to abetter understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations (vide Buie IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is. devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on theyirsf Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to'
the Booms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Booms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamppd addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Buies, Circle Regulations, and directions “ how to form Spirit
“Circles,” with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
PERSONS in Oxford interested m Spiritualism are
invited to call upon Mr. Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigation of phenomena and the discus-^
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects/
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyekman,
Price Threepence. To behad of W, H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’&-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
Research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Buies may be had upon
application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES
On the first Wednesday of each month, until jurther notice.
THE NEXT CONVERSAZIONE WILL .EE HELD ON WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3RD,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS, 71, MORTIMER-STREET, OXFORD-STREET, W.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 6.30 to 10 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub,
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road
Notting-hill, Mr. J- "W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, and at the
doors of the hall, on the evening of each Conversazione.
NOTICE. _~
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Second Course
UPON THE “ SOUL AND SPIRIT OF MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
progress; and destiny.”'
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, -every Sunday evening.
Doors open at .6.30, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Othe^ seats Is.' each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors. % ■
Tickets for a course Of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr. Webster
Glynes, 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till. 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing fall particulars may be obtained gratis,.
or sent cost free on application to '
FRANCIS EAVENSCEOFT, Manager.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Bue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T>EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
Xll fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 26, 1875.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beabebs foe 1874.
President.—James 'Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—US.?. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—T&c. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman,' Messrs. John Priest'
E. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. CL
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social interoourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Eooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., ,etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1806. Offered for a short
time at 3s. fid. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Eecently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: -Longmans,
Green, and Oo„ PaternosterTrow.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PBOGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
BaillieRe & Co., King William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating.library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
PIRITUALISM AND REFORM. ‘ ‘ The Banner of Light ”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Tiiree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-row, E.O. ,
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
mWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
JL and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
IT IS INTENDED TO HOLD A
BAZAAR
Under the auspices of the Association, in the latter part of May, 1875.
The Association concluded at its ;last Council Meeting to take the
premises which have been offered to it at 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.
The object of the proposed Bazaar is to assist in meeting the very con¬
siderable expenses, which will be needful to furnish Library and Reading
Rooms, Seance Rooms, Council Room, &c.. thus providing a Central Estab¬
lishment, which it is hoped will be found of great value to both London
and Country Spiritualists, Members of the Association and others.
The idea has not received the formal sanction of the Association, but
will undoubtedly do so at the next meeting of the Council.
Contributions for the Bazaar are earnestly solicited to include :—
Useful and Ornamental Articles of all kinds,—Books, Photographs, En¬
gravings and Works of Art, Paintings, Drawings, Direct Writings, or any
“Spiritual” Curiosities from the treasures of private Mediums, would be
specially acceptable.
The promoters of the Bazaar are of opinion, that it would greatly con¬
tribute to its success, if it were understood, that the articles would be
marked at reasonable and not at exorbitant prices, at the opening of the
Bazaar,—that they would not be disposed of at ridiculously low prices at
its close;—and also that contributors who are inclined to do so, may send
a minimum price for any articles of value, at which if not sold, they shall
be re reserved for their own disposal.
On behalf of the (future) Bazaar Committee,
M. A. Everitt, ,
Emily Kislingbury.
Further arrangements will be announced as soon as possible.
February, 1875.
GOSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.—IN¬
STRUCTIVE LECTURES to HUMANITY, are delivered every
Sunday evening, by Trance, Inspirational and other Mediums. Doors open
at 6.30, service at 7 o’clock. Admission Free.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL-OUTFIT TER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK. .
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
“NEW CHURCH SCIENCE;”
REMARKS THEREUPON.
BY THOMAS ROBINSON.
TO WHICH IS ADDED
“OBJECTIONS TO A NEW CHURCH MINISTRY CONSIDERED:’*
Being a Reprint from an American Periodical (Herald of Light).
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
PRICE ONE PENNY
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London .—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
FSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2Jd. Published on
the 15th of each month, b"; the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
VOLUME £IX. JHUJVIBER NIN'E.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26th, 1876.
Established in 1869.
HA.RGKE FOR ADYERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as ,one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of '•'•The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always he informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street. .
St. Louis.—“Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needhlun, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswiok-street.j
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street. ,
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. _ The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square. W.
STRANGE POWERS OF THE SPIRITS OF
SLEEPING MORTALS.
A few months ago Prince Wittgenstein published a
remarkable article in these pages, setting forth how the
spirit of his sleeping sister 'manifested at one of his
seances, hut knew nothing of the circumstance in her
normal state. We have a few more facts to give about
the production of results at a distance, involving issues
of the most important nature in their hearing upon the
whole of the present philosophy of Spiritualism. Here
is a letter on the subject from Mr. Fitzgerald:—
PHYSICAL EFFECTS PRODUCED BY THE SPIRIT OF A MESMERIC
SENSITIVE.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—The most powerful mesmerist I have ever known was
H. E. Lewis, a negro, through whom the late Lord Lytton
obtained many of his semi-spiritual experiences. The phe¬
nomena obtained through the agency of Lewis had frequently
an important bearing upon the now more fully developed facts
of Spiritualism. I was introduced to him some twenty years
ago by Mr. Henry Thompson, of Fairfield, himself a very
powerful mesmerist. I was then an ardent investigator of the
phenomena of mesmerism, and was also laying the foundation
of my present assured convictions in relation to Spiritualism.
Determined to sift to the botton the genuineness of certain
phenomena above referred to, I took an apartment in Lewis’s
house in Baker-street, and myself made arrangements for
several lecturing excursions in localities with which Lewis was
unacquainted.
In February, 1856, we went to Blackheath, where an incident
occurred which I think will he of interest to you. We put up
at a tavern, where, in the evening, Lewis mesmerised a number
of persons in the coffee-room, gave some striking illustrations
of electro-biology, and succeeded in greatly interesting some of
the inhabitants of the locality. It was arranged that a hall
should be taken for a lecture to be given on the following day,
an audience being guaranteed by the habituAs of the coffee-
room in question. The lecture took place, and after the more
ordinary experiments in mesmerism and electro-biology had
been very successfully exhibited, Lewis proceeded to illustrate
some of the phenomena of clairvoyance and somnambulism,
in the person of a young woman—a perfect stranger to him—
who, with others, had come upon the platform from amongst
the audience. Whilst she was in the “deep sleep,” he
ordered her to “go home” and to describe what she saw
there. She described a kitchen, in which were two persons,
occupied with some domestic duties. “Do you think you
could touch the person nearest to you ? ” inquired Lewis. The
only answer, I think, was an indistinct murmur. Placing one
hand on her head, and the other over the region of the solar
plexus, he then said, “ I will you to touch her on the shoulder,
you must do so, you shall do so ! ” Presently the girl laughed,
and said, “I have touched her, they are so frightened! ” Turn¬
ing to the audience, Lewis asked whether any one in the hall knew
the young woman, and, on receiving an answer in the affirmative,
requested that a “deputation” should proceed to her abode,
and ascertain the truth or falsity of her statement. The per¬
sons who went on this errand afterwards returned to the hall,
and stated that everything described by the girl had actually
taken place, and that the household in question was in a
state of great perturbation, one of its members declaring that,
whilst occupied in the kitchen, she had been touched on the
shoulder by a ghost.
The young woman who was the “ sensitive ” on this occasioi*
was servant to Mr. Taylor, shoemaker, of Blackheath. In my
note-book I find likewise the name of Mr. Bishop, dentist,
also of Blackheath, who at the time offered to testify to the
truth of the foregoing incident. Desmond G. Fitzgebald.
6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W., Feb. 22nd
98
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 26, 1875.
The circumstances in the following letter are curious,
but may perhaps be explained away as mere coinci¬
dence :—
MENTAL IMPBESSIONS PEODtTCED BY ONE SLEEPING
PEBSON UPON ANOTHEB.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sib,—In conversation about absent persons, especially
around the Christmas fire, the remark is commonly made:
“ I wonder whether they are thinking of us while we are talk¬
ing about them.” In order to begin to test whether such
synchroniety of thought is a reality, a friend and myself re-1
solved that we would try to impress each other by will-power
at different times during a week’s absence, and to enter in our
note-books the exact time at which we thought of each other, or
tried to impress each other.
I never before realised the necessity of passivity on the part
of mediums, as I did during that week, for my entries were
mostly made during the evenings, and I saw clearly that if my
friend could interfere with my thoughts whilst I was busily
engaged in the day, my, freedom as an individual would be
nowhere. I also saw quite clearly a philosophical reason why
a Satan of some kind or other might be able to
“ Find some mischief still
For idle hands to do.”
We compared notes at the end of the week, and found no
similarity between our entries, but my friend narrated the
following remarkable incident:—
“ Last Monday night (Feb. 15th) I had been asleep about
two hours when I suddenly awoke, as if forced to by some
outside power. Ordinarily I do not wake, but sleep all
through the night. I could see nothing, but had a mental
impression that you were in the room, and beset with some
deep trouble, so that you did not know what to do.”
Such was his story. Now it so happens that on that Monday
night the usual smooth career of my life was beset by a great
trouble; I had written and torn up several letters about it
before I finished one which satisfied me, after which I went
to bed in a perturbed state of mind, but with no intention of
conveying information on the point to my friend.
My friend has several times tried to mesmerise me, and
failed; I have tried to mesmerise him, and succeeded. He is,
to a slight extent, a medium. An Expeeimentalist.
Feb. 21st, 1875.
PHOTOGBAPHING THE SPIBITS OF SLEEPING PEBSONS,
In Human Nature for this month, in an interesting
article signed “ M.A. (Oxon,),” the following letter by
the Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Hue Scribe,
Paris, is published;—
I, the undersigned, William Julian, Count de Bullet, certify
to having obtained at M. Buguet’s, Photographer, Boulevard
de Montmartre, by ordinary methods of photography, at
several sittings, the following portraits :—
1. The double of my sister, now living at Baltimore,
U.S.A.
2. My uncle.
3. M. de Layman, an intimate friend.
4. One of my aunts.
In assurance of which, I freely sign the present attestation.
Hotel de 1’Atbenee, Bue Scribe, (J, J, djj BULLET.
Paris, Dec. 10,1874.
The writer of the article says:—
I was so much interested in the fact of the double of a
living person being presented, that I took pains to get some
further information. Mr. Gledstanes has kindly enabled me
to give fprecise facts as to this most remarkable occurrence,
which has been repeated again and again, once notably at a
Bitting on New Year’s Day, at which he. was present. I wrote
to the Comte’de Bullet, asking him to be so kind as to give me
precise information on these points:—1. Whether his sister
was probably asleep at the time when the photograph was
taken ? 2. Whether he had himself seen the double at any
other time or place ? 3. Whether the likeness was one about
which no doubt could exist, and if it were recognised by others
than himself ? 4. Whether he had ever made the experiment
of endeavouring to impress his thoughts on his sister by
exercise of will-power? 5. Whether the phenomenon in
question had occurred more than once ?
To these questions the Count sent the following
reply<
Paris, Jan. 15, 1875.
My dear Sir,---I have received your esteemed letter of the
9th inst„ and shall be happy if what I have observed
in the interesting science of Spiritualism may be of some use
to you.
Answering to the first question in your letter, I can say that
it is probable that my sister was asleep at the time the photo¬
graph was taken, for I calculated the hour—12 noon here
gives 6 o’clock at Baltimore.
Respecting the second question, I have never seen her
double on any occasion, though I have very often felt her im¬
pression by intuition, always at a time when she would be likely
to be asleep.
As to question three, the likeness is so striking that
every one who knows her has instantly recognised it. I have
her likeness now in eight different positions, in large size
(8 in. by 5in.), and there is not the slightest doubt about the
likeness.
In answer to the fourth question, I have never tried to
impress thoughts on the mind of my sister. Between her and
me, since childhood, there has always existed the deepest
affection. We have always corresponded# and her children are
most affectionate and devoted to me.
I go to M. Buguet before noon, and when I pose before the
camera, I simply put mentally the question I wish, or ask her
to come to me if possible. On one plate she appears with a
card in her hands, with her answer, which is written quite dis¬
tinctly. The writing is in French, except when she does not
wish M. Buguet to know its contents; then she writes in
English.
On New Year’s Day I went to Buguet and said , mentally,
“ You read my thoughts, my dear sister, and it would be a
grand New Year’s gift for me if you could come to me with all
your children.” When the operation was done she appeared
on the plate with her three daughters. I sat a second time,
and she came with her two boys, making in all her five
children—all perfect likenesses. The drain on the medium
was severe, for there were seven portraits in all. On the plate
with her daughters she appears holding a card on which is
written, “ Your desire is realised; receive the felicitations of
my children,” signed with her name. Here I would observe
that M. Buguet did not know whether she had any children,
nor how many, nor how they were divided—three girls and
two boys.
On the 10th of this month I sat again, and asked my sister,
if possible, to come with my mother, who lives about 1,200
miles distant from her. She came with a card in her hands
with this written on it, “ Your thoughts to-day are for our
dear mother. I will do all I can to gratify you by helping her
to appear. Come on Tuesday at 10 o’clock.” (10 o’clock here
would give 4 o’clock at the residence of my mother. She is in
the habit of getting up early, and that explains my sister fixing
the early hour of 10 here.) I sat at the time appointed, and
she came with my mother standing by her side.
All these facts I give you are the result of the most rigorous
investigation, and I can avouch all I say.
(Signed) G-. J. de Bullet.
If, then, it be a fact that the spirits of the millions
of persons in the world are actively engaged during
the sleep of their bodies, and have the power to pro¬
duce physical and mental effects under certain condi¬
tions, what a vast amount of invisible intelligent power
exists in th e universe without our necessarily being obliged
to call in the theory of the existence of the spirits of
the departed to produce phenomena. What powers
(as we said a few weeks ago) are possessed by the
spirits of mediums while their bodies are entranced,
and what results may they not possibly produce under
the influence of the wills of the observers, if not by
their own volition, in the other state of consciousness ?
Scores of arguments both for and aaainst the spirit
theory may be founded upon the valuable mass of new
facts which is coming in like a flood upon the students
of psychology.
The Christian Spiritualise a journal which has always
been conducted in a friendly and genial spirit, has improved
of late both in appearance and contents; it is published
monthly by Mr, Arnold of Fleet-street, price twopence.
I^eb. 26, 1875.
THE SPIBITTTALIST.
99
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXVII.
[“ Impemtor’s ” argument leing concluded, I pondered
it carefully, and two days after (July \Uh, 1873) made
a rejoinder on the points which still seemed difficult to me.
These referred to—\, Identity; 2, The nature and work
of Jesus Christ; 3, External evidence confirmatory of the
claims made.—-I reguested that independent communica¬
tions should be made through another medium, and ex¬
pressed my intention of seeking out some medium with a
view to getting such authentication. I also traversed the
views put forward respecting the teachings in many ways
which it is not now important to particularise. My answer
expressed fairly my convictions at that time; but I see,now
that my rejoinders were based upon insufficient knowledge,
and they have since been met in many ways; sufficiently,
at any rate, to assu/re me that what remains unanswered
will in due time receive its reply. But, at the time, I was
very far from being satisfied, and expressed my dissent
emphatically: In reply it was written as follows:—]
Friend, your statement has the merit of candour and
perspicuity, which you allege that ours lacks: We have
no difficulty in seeing your difficulty, though we find
it impossible to supply it; and undesirable even if it
were possible. If we fail at once to comply with all
the conditions which you prescribe, we say again that
it is from no lack of desire to afford you every
satisfaction. "We desire earnestly to bear conviction
in upon your mind; but in so doing we must use our
own means at our own time. It would be to us
most sad, most deplorable, that our work should be
marred or delayed by the failure of part of our plans.
If it were so we should regret it both on your account
and on our own; but we are unable to change the
result. We are not omnipotent; and we cannot in¬
fluence you save by the ordinary processes of argument
and evidence which do not now reach your mind. That
being so, we recognise the fact that you are not yet
prepared to receive our words, and we wait in patience
for the time when they shall find an entrance into your
mind.
Into most of the questions which you have raised
we do not follow you. They have been answered
before, so far as it is now desirable to answer them.
Nothing that we could now say would add any force to
the replies which have been already given. Into matters
of opinion it is idle for us to enter. Whether what we say
seems to you consistent with what we do or have previously
done, is a very small matter. You are not now in the
best condition to judge dispassionately on such a matter.
Whether the eventual outcome of what you call Spirit¬
ualism is what we say, or what you think, is equally
beside the point. We view the question from a more
extended standpoint, one to which you are not yet able
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
Borne remarkable seances held;at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John's-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to he
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ’’ printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
•have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
to mount. Your vision is circumscribed, and we see
with clearer eye than yours. Whether you consider
our teaching to be a legitimate development of Chris¬
tianity is also of small moment. You admit its moral
grandeur, and we need not discuss the meaning of de¬
velopment. Whether you believe it or not, it is teaching
of which the world stands in sore need; teaching which
it will sooner or later receive with thankfulness, whether
you accept it or not; whether or not you receive us,
and are prepared to aid us in disseminating it. We
had hoped that we had found an instrument suited to
our wants. We hope so still; for we know that the
phase through which you are now passing is but a tran¬
sient one, soon to give place to that assured conviction
which is born of doubt. But even if it were not so,
we must bow to the Almighty fiat, and seek anew for
means of carrying on the work which we have in charge.
No instrument is necessary to our end; though a good
one is desirable. We should deplore greatly that you
should put aside what is to you a means of enlighten¬
ment and progress. But over the issue we have no
power. Should you, in the freedom of your will,
decide to do so, we shall bow to the decision, and
regret that your mind is not sufficiently developed to
accept what we have presented to it.
Any attempt to prove identity by such imposed tests
as you have put upon us would be worse than useless.
It would probably end in failure; and would cer¬
tainly fail to ensure conviction. It may be possible for
us to give collateral proofs from time to time. If it be
so, we shall gladly avail ourselves of the opportunity;
and if your connection with us is prolonged, you will
find hereafter that many such proofs are accumulated.
But the validity of bur claims must rest on some more
solid foundation than that. The evidence is not to be
built on so shadowy a foundation. It would not stand
the test of time. It is on moral grounds that we must
appeal to you; and you yourself, we-trust, will one day
see that the physical is transient and unsatisfactory.
For the present your mind is not sufficiently calm to
weigh judicially the moral evidence. We are either of
God or of the devil. If of God, as our words argue,
then we shall not be likely to fabricate a story which,
as you say, the world would receive with derision. But
if we are, as you incline to think, of evil, then it rests
with you to account for a story which bears on its face
the marks of a Divine origin coming from an evil
source. We do not trouble ourselves much on this
score. We have no fear that what we have said will,
in the end when fairly weighed, be held to be attribu¬
table to an evil source. It is to the matter of the mes¬
sage rather than to the character of the messenger that
we direct attention.
For ourselves it is a small matter. For God’s work
and God’s truth it is serious. For you and for your
future it is of most vital moment. It may be well that
you should have time for thought and reflection. The
growth of the revelation which has centred round you.
has been rapid and dazzling. It may be well that you
should have time for serious and sober thought before
we say more. We think that we may well withdraw
for a time, and allow you to be at peace with your
thoughts. We do not leave you alone; but rather with
guardians more vigilant, and with guides more experi¬
enced. It is better too for us; for time may decide
whether it be possible for us to continue the work
begun; or whether precious time has been wasted, and
the work must be begun anew. It must in any case
100
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 26, 1875.
be a grievous disappointment that tbe fruit of so many
labours, of so many prayers, should drop untimely to the
ground. But we and you must act according to that
light which is in us as the guide of our actions. "We
are responsible in the sight of God for so much as that;
and we must see <tto it that we weigh the issues aright.
Our prayers shall be not less frequent nor less earnest
than heretofore. We trust that they may be more
effectual
Farewell: and may the Great God guide and direct
you. + Impekatob.
After this I made several attempts at communication.
I also went, as I had intimated, to a medium to whom
I was not Tcnown. I tried to the best of my power to
elicit some information as to my guides, and especially
as to the identity of Imperator. The effort was vain.
All I got was that the spirit with me was Zoud, a Russian
historian. I inquired as soon as I got home by writing,
and was told that the statement was false. It was
said:
We are not able to advise you to place reliance on
the statements made. They are not trustworthy. If,
contrary to our advice, you place yourself in communi¬
cation with strange spirits who do not know you, and
who are not in harmony with us, you will receive com¬
munications which are perplexing and unreliable.
I remonstrated energetically, and said that it would
have been so easy to satisfy my reasonable desire.
No. We wish to give you every satisfaction; but
the chief ordered us not to attend, and we were unable
to prevent you from going. You get more harm than
you can know from such experiments in your present
state. We urge you very earnestly to refrain from
such sittings in your present state, lest evil ensue.
You require only patience. Impatient attempts to
force matters on do but cause annoyance and distress to
all of us. Far better that you rest in peace, and
await the issue. The chief will do what is right, and
any premature steps are mistaken.
But, I remonstrated, you all seem leagued to bewilder
me. Gan you do nothing that I aslc ?
Friend, you cannot have the mathematical proof that
you crave. Nor can we give you proof exactly when
you wish for it. Nor would it be good for you if we
were able. All is arranged wisely and well.
The spirit who communicated thus is the same who
gave the earlier messages printed in “ The Spiritualist ” a
year ago. I was fain to stop, for I could get no satis¬
faction. On July 25 we had a sitting at which Im-
•perator controlled, and some information was given j but
nothing that touched my mental condition. The other
members of the circle were nqt in sympathy with my
difficulties, and during the control their questions were
answered, and their difficulties solved. My spirit being
in abeyance did not affect the conditions. Then a friend
of mine, lately passed from earth, was brought, and full
proof of identity, by means of ref erence to events Tcnoivn
only to me and him, was given. Though impressed, I
was not satisfied. Then came the vacation, and I left
London for Ireland. Then I had curious communica¬
tions respecting a friend who lay sick in London, but
nothing that bore upon the question now at issue. I then
went on to Wales, and received on Aug. 24 another
message from Imperator, which it is necessary to tran¬
scribe. I had endeavoured to elicit answers, and -was
teamed that it was not ivellfor me to do so. My bodily
condition was below par, and my mental state was dis¬
turbed. I teas advised to review the past rather than to
attempt to look further into the future.
Employ yourself in meditating on the past. Think
carefully over that which we have been permitted to do
for you. Weigh again and again the total outcome of
what is before you. Estimate its value, and watch the
moral tendency of our words. We do not blame you
for doubts which have been the natural outcome of
your peculiar frame of mind. It is inevitable that you
should weigh and test everything, and your impetuous
nature hurries you along too fast, while a mind natu¬
rally inclined to doubt conflicts with the too eager im¬
petuosity. Hence your distracted state of mind.
Hence the difficulties in your way. We do not blame;
we do but point dut that such a frame of mind is not
that which is best fitted for impartial judgment. It
needs that you should curb your impetuous mind, and
resist the tendency to form hasty conclusions on the
one hand, while you put aside carping criticism, and
allow weight to that which we may call the constructive
side of our teaching. At present you dwell too exclu¬
sively on the destructive.
And remember, friend, that your doubts and diffi¬
culties must, until they are removed, operate as a
barrier to our further progress. They have already
hindered us much, and caused us to withhold much.
This is unavoidable. We urge you then to clear your
mind once and for ever by stern exercise of will of all
the mists which now becloud your judgment. This is
what we hope for as the result of rest and isolation.
It is all important that the circle to whom we com¬
municate should be in perfect harmony. Bising doubts
are to us as the fogs of earth which bewilder the
traveller, and hinder him on his way. We cannot work
in the midst of them. They must be removed. And
we do not doubt that an honest and unprejudiced survey
of the past will clear them away : us the sun of truth
rises on your horizon, they will disperse, and you will
be astonished at the prospect that shall dawn upon you.
Be not tpo eager. If anything seems new and
strange to you, do not therefore reject it. Estimate it
according to your light, and, if need be, put it aside to
wait for further enlightenment. To the honest and
true heart all else will come in God’s time. In the end
you will arrive at a plane of knowledge, when much
that now seems so new and strange will be revealed and
explained. Only keep before you the fact that there
is much that is new and true of which you now know
nothing; many fresh truths to be learned; many old
errors to be dissipated. Wait and pray.
,    -f Impeeatob.
Impediments to Spibitual Communion.—A lady has
sent us the following spirit 'message, given through her own
mediumship 2—“ You cannot have any conception of the
difficulties which we have to encounter in attempting to speak
with you. We have to fight our way through the mist and
maziness of matter, and not only that, hut through the mist
caused by material lusts and ambitions. We take vitality
from every sitter, therefore we take their physical characteris¬
tics, and as these follow from their spiritual state we have to
partake of that. Consequently the messages which we start
to you like doves which we have nourished incur bosoms, and
let loose from us to fly to you with pure wings of angelic
colour, reach you stained, marred, and unable to sing, because
of the terrible atmosphere through which they pass. This is
not a mere fancy, but a true image, and if you bear this in
mind it will help you much. It is needed that you should
purify this atmosphere, so that the white-winged messengers
might arrive with less soot upon their wings. Bear this
in mind and you will be far more forbearing at your spiritual
meetings.”—Through the mediumship of Mrs. K. C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
Eeb. 26, 1875.
A “TEST” FROM THE DELPHIC ORACLE.
BY ST. GEOB.GKE W. STOCK, B.A. (OXON).
Oijr modern methods of thought are, perhaps, not
quite so perfect as we are inclined to think them; and
if there is one direction in which we are more hoplessly
on a false track than another, it is in the region of
what is called “ historical criticism.” The historical
critic is a self-complacent personage, with a sovereign
contempt for the understanding of all who came into
the world before himself. He takes his own limited
experience as the universal type of world-order; and if
ever history, in the wake of nature, departs from the
humdrum course of daily life, the critic accounts for
the aberration by a patronising allusion to “;the ideas
current at the time.” If nature was only discovered
yesterday, history, it seems, is the.invention of to-day.
It is only of late that intuitive perception of historical
truth has been acquired, which enables the critic to
decide at a glance that one statement of an author is to
be accepted as genuine, while another, perhaps on the
very same page, and resting on equally valid evidence,
is to be explained away as mere mythology, or the
product of the religious sentiment working upon the
peculiar beliefs and ideas of the day. Historical criti¬
cism has achieved many triumphs, but none more bril¬
liant than the total extirpation of the miraculous element
from Christianity. It is interesting to observe the
change that has come over the spirit of religious
thought in the present century as compared with pre¬
ceding ones, in the delight with which the removal of
this incubus upon faith is hailed by Rationalists and
Theists and advanced theologians generally. They can
respect a Deity who behaves with decorum—
A par le Roi, defense a DiCu,
De faire miracle, dans ce lieu.
And yet the so-called “ miracles” are not such terrible
bugbears after all, and will ultimately be recognised in
their true light, as intrinsically of equal credibility with
other parts of the gospel narrative, and as constituting
no greater claim to an authority calculated to ride
rough-shod over advanced moral sensibilities. For
what is it that has given, as is commonly supposed, the
death-blow to belief in the Christian miracles ? Evi¬
dently the comparative study of history. It has been
found that the accounts in question do not stand iso¬
lated, but have their parallels in the history of every
nation under the sun. And so what is commonly ad¬
mitted to lend credibility to a narrative is in this in¬
stance assumed to abolish it! So confident is Matthew
Arnold in the strength of this strange inversion of
reason that he considers all discussion as to the evi¬
dence of Christian miracles superfluous, when he has
the pages of Herodotus to which to refer his orthodox
opponents. How it is a well-known fact, and one
which no sane Spiritualist will be anxious to deny,
that the love of the marvellous is one of the most pro¬
lific faculties of the human mind, and that miracles
breed like rabbits in a warren: but after all deductions
have been made, we need not doubt but that much in
Herodotus and other ancient authors, which has hitherto
been regarded' as grotesque fable, will regain its place
as sober history. The records of the past will, in fact,
have to be studied afresh in the light thrown upon
them by the phenomena of modern Spiritualism. No¬
where is this more evident than with regard to the
oracles which played so important a part in the political
and social life of the Greeks. The prestige which these
institutions had acquired in the earliest dawn of history
they maintained amid the full blaze of Hellenic civili¬
sation. They were believed in by Plato, heterodox in
all else; and by Socrates, with a plenitude of con¬
viction for which he accounts by an appeal to the daily
experience of himself and others, of their veracity.
That real powers of clairvoyance were possessed by the
Pythia, or priestess of the Delphic god, might be made
abundantly evident by quotations from trustworthy his¬
torians. We need not, therefore, throw ourselves into
the usual attitude of incredulity in reading the follow¬
ing account given us by Herodotus of the test imposed
by Croesus, King of Lydia, upon the oracle at Delphi,
previous to consulting it as to the success of his pro¬
posed attack upon the rising power of Persia. I trans¬
late quite literally from the pages of the father of
history
Having formed this design, he at once proceeded to test the
oracles, those in Greece and the one in Libya, despatching
messengers in different directions, some to go to Delphi, some
to Abol in Phocis, and some to Dodina; while others were sent
off to the temples of Amphiaraus and Trophonius, and others
to the Branchidol in the Milesian territory. These were the
Grecian oracles which Croesus sent to consult. And in Libya
he sent other persons to inquire of the oracle of Hammon.
Now, he sent thus to sound the oracles, in order that, if he
found them truthful, he might afterwards ask them if he should
undertake an expedition against the Persians. So he despatched
his Lydians to test the oracles, instructing them to take count
of the time from the day they left Sardis, and on the hundredth
day consult the oracles, asking what the King of the Lydians,
Croesus, son of Halyattes, was doing at that moment: the
answers they were to take down .in writing, and bring back to
himself. Now, it is nowhere recorded what declarations were
made by the rest of the oracles ; but at Delphi the moment the
Lydians entered the sanctuary and proceeded to put the desired
question, the Pythia gave the following reply in hexameters:—
The number of the sands I know, and the measure of the sea,
The dumb have voice and language, and the speechless speech to me.
A steaming odour strikes my sense, from scaly tortoise sent,
With seethM lambkin’s tender flesh in blazing cauldron blent,
’Mid brass above and brass below, the twain together pent.
This declaration of the Pythia the Lydians took down in
writing, and then went off to Sardis. And when the other
messengers who had been despatched abroad arrived with
their oracles, Croesus unfolded each in turn, and looked over
their contents. With the rest he was not struck, but as soon
as he heard the one from Delphi, he broke into prayer, and
hailed it, thinking there was no oracle but that at Delphi,
since it had discovered what he was doing. For after he had
despatched his messengers to the seats of divination, he
watched for the appointed day, and set himself to do what he
considered on reflection was the most unlikely thing to be
discovered or conjectured. He chopped up a tortoise and a
lamb, and began to boil them together with his own hands in
a brass cauldron, on which he had put a brass lid.
That the oracle, having thus established its reputa¬
tion with Croesus, afterwards misled him to his ruin,
may be borne in mind with advantage by consulters of
spirits at the present day.
Apartments eob. Seances Wanted. — Constant com¬
plaints reach us from good mediums who come to London,
about the difficulty of obtaining apartments in which public
seances may be held. This arises partly because of the preju¬
dice against Spiritualism, and partly because of the publicity
into which the premises are brought. Consequently, although
high rates are paid for rooms for such purposes, there is
difficulty in obtaining them. Booms are usually desired some¬
where in the district between Bussell-square and Edg ware-
road, or Paddington, the neighbourhood of the Marble-arch
or Regent-street being most in favour. We are not sure that
good mediums would not do well at Notting-hill, since there
are many Spiritualists in that locality; consequently, any
readers who have suitable apartments to let should make
the circumstance known. At the present time the Brixton
Psychological Society has a difficulty in obtaining rooms in
Brixton for its meetings.
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 26, 1875
REORGANISATION AMONG SOUTH LONDON
SPIRITUALISTS.
On Wednesday night, last week, a meeting was held at the
house of Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, London, convened by Mr. Eendle for the pur¬
pose of reorganising the local spiritual society for the benefit
of residents in Brixton and the surrounding neighbourhood.
Among the ladies and gentlemen present were Mr. and Miss
Fitzgerald, the Misses Withall, Miss E. D. Ponder, Mrs. Eudd,
Mr. and Mrs. James Kerry, Mr. and Mrs. Peddle, Mr. E. P.
Ashton, Mr. H. Withall, Mr. G. E. Tapp, Mr. A. Parker,
Mr. S. Redford, Mr. S. Peddle, Mr. A. Yeates, Mr. Eve, Mr.
Arthur E. Rendle, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
ELECTION OE COUNCIL AND OFFICERS.
Mr. Eendle said that thirty persons in Brixton had promised
to join the proposed Society, so the present meeting had been
called to decide upon a definite line of action; also to elect a
Council and officers; the Misses Ponder, also Mr. and Mrs.
Bird, and Mr. Ashton, had helped him with their advice as to
what was best to be done. He would therefore move that in
the opinion of those present the Brixton Society of Spiritualists
should be then and there reorganised.
This was seconded by Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton, and passed
unanimously.
Mr. Eendle then proposed as members of the Council of the
new society Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, Mrs. Eudd, Mr. E. P.
Ashton, Miss E. D. Ponder, and Miss Withall, with power to
add to their number. Three to form a quorum.
This was seconded, and passed unanimously.
Mr. Eendle moved that Mr. James Deane should be ap¬
pointed treasurer.
Mr. Fitzgerald said that he knew him, and thought him
very suitable for the post.
This also was passed unanimously.
Mr. Withall proposed Mr. Eendle as secretary ; Mr. Ashton
seconded this; and it was passed unanimously.
Mr. G. E. Tapp, at the request of Mr. Ashton, gave some
details relating to the early history of the Brixton Society,
which was founded in 1870, and he explained why, after a
tolerably successful career of about twelve months, the attend¬
ances at the meetings gradually fell off. He said that the
meetings were first held at Branksome-terrace, Acre Lane, and
afterwards in the Lothian-road at Brixton.
Mr. Harrison remarked that the life of every young organi¬
sation of the kind depended entirely upon a good working
secretary, who would always be present in good time when
meetings were to be held, who would not be discouraged by
occasional thin attendances, and who would work actively to
get the members to perform their duties. So long as Mr. E.
Pearce worked as secretary to the St. John’s Association of
Spiritualists it lived, but directly he ceased to do so it died.
Mr. Tapp said that he could corroborate this; for instance,
Mr. T. Blyton had been the life and soul of the Dalston
Society, and when he gave up the secretaryship for a time
it began to languish, but now that he had returned, the
members all knew that the society had begun a fresh lease
of life.
Mr. Eendle proposed that Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., should be
invited to become president of the society; Mr. Harrison
seconded this, and it was passed unanimously.
Mr. Eendle then proposed that Mr. Alexander Calder should
be invited to take the position of vice-president; this was
seconded by Mr. Withall, and passed unanimously.
SUGGESTED TITLES FOR THE SOCIETY.
Mr. Eendle then asked what the name of the resuscitated
society should be ? Among the names suggested to him had
been the Brixton Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,
the Brixton Psychological Society, the Brixton Association for
the Study and Advancement of Spiritual Science, the Brix¬
ton Spiritual Evidence Society, and the Brixton Society of
Spiritualists.
Mr. Ashton thought that the Brixton Society of Spiritists
would be best.
Mr. Fitzgerald said that the term “spiritists” was not
used in England.
Miss Withall remarked that the term “spiritists” was
usually taken to imply a belief in reincarnation.
Mr. Tapp said that if it were stated in the title that it was a
society of Spiritualists, it would keep away many would-be
members, who wished to inquire into the subject.
Mr. Parker said that if it was a society of Spiritualists, why
he ashamed of the name ?
- Mr. Tapp said that nobody would be ashamed of the name,
but the name would prevent inquirers from joining who were
not Spiritualists, yet who would become such if they were
allowed to enroll themselves and to investigate.
Mr. Ashton and several others said that they quite agreed
with Mr. Tapp.
Mr. Tapp proposed that the name of the reorganised
Association be “ The Brixton Psychological Society.”
Miss Ponder seconded this, and it was passed unanimously.
PROSPECTUS OF THE SOCIETY.
Mr. Eendle then moved that the following prospectus be
adopted:—“ This Society is formed for the purpose of pro¬
moting the study of Spiritualism and kindred subjects, as
well by experimental investigation as by collecting and classi¬
fying well-attested phenomena and" facts relating thereto. It
is intended to include Spiritualists and inquirers into the
spiritual sciences of every class, without regard to theological
or other tenets.”
Mr. Harrison moved an amendment that the words “ with¬
out regard to theological or other tenets” be omitted; they
might be unjustly construed into a term of offence; besides, it
was impossible to make any reference of any kind to theo¬
logical subjects, without giving rise to angry criticism.
Mr. Parker seconded this, and the amendment was passed
unanimously.
Mr. Ashton did not like the word “ science ” in the proposed
prospectus. It conveyed an idea of secularism.
Mr. Harrison said that Mr. Ashton’s remark was a very true
one, but the error arose from the vulgar mistake on the part
of the public of considering the words “science ” and “ physics ”
to be synonymous terms. “Science” meant merely “exact
knowledge,” so those who objected to science, objected to
exact knowledge and to clear thought; in other words they
announced to the world that they liked to have muddled
ideas.
Mr. Tapp said that the meaning of the word “ science ” was
“ to know.”
Mr. Ashton said that all this was very true, still, many per¬
sons would not understand it without explanation, conse¬
quently the use of the word would unnecessarily offend some
orthodox people. He would, therefore, move that the words
“ inquirers into Spiritualism ” be substituted.
Mr. Fitzgerald seconded this.
Mr. Withall proposed that the prospectus be allowed to
stand as at present, until it had been considered by the
Council, and brought forward again at the next general
meeting.
Mr. Eendle seconded the amendment.
There was then a division upon the point. Fourteen voted
for Mr. Withall’s amendment and six against it. The amend¬
ment was consequently carried;
SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Mr. Eendle asked what should be the amount of the sub¬
scriptions of the members.
Mr. Tapp said that the subscriptions to the Dalston
Society were not very high, but they were found to work well;
the annual subscription was ten shillings, or three shillings a
quarter; those who wished to subscribe more could do so by
becoming life members.
Mr. Eendle said that Brixton was rather a richer neighbour¬
hood than Dalston, and that rooms were cheaper at the latter
place.. He would, therefore, propose that the annual sub¬
scription to the Brixton Society should be twelve shillings, or
seven shillings for the half year, or four shillings the quarter;
also that a subscription of three guineas should entitle any¬
body to life membership.
This was seconded by Mr. Withall.
Mr. Peddle suggested that the annual subscription should
be ten shillings, in order not to shut out poor people; when
the society wanted more funds, there were means of raising
money by lectures and soirees.
Mr. Tapp said that when lectures had been given in
Dalston, they had a good effect upon 'Spiritualism, secured
publicity, and were noticed in local papers, but they had a
bad effect Upon the funds. Private seances, with good mediums,
or little parties now and then, Usually covered all their
expenses, and left a small balance in favour of the society.
The resolution was then passed unanimously.
THE LIBRARY.
Mr. Eendle asked what was to be done about a library.
He suggested that they should get books from Mr. Burns’s shop,
at two guineas a year, for which amount they could have occa¬
sional packages for lending purposes.
l6i
Fed. 26, 1875.  '  THE SPTtUTUAI.IST.
Mr. Tapp said that the society would have to choose between
this and establishing a permanent library. A permanent
library was a great inducement to local residents to become
members. The Dalston Society put aside a moderate amount
of money every year to purchase books, and by these means
had established a good library containing nearly all the
standard works on Spiritualism. Several friends had assisted
by giving books to the library; for instance Mr. Oxley,
of Manchester, had given many of Swedenborg’s works;
thus at Dalston they had a valuable library; they also took in
and hied for binding all the English spiritual periodicals.
Several speakers said that the subject had better be con¬
sidered at a future time, so the conversation on the point
dropped.
PLACE OF MEETING.
Mr. Eendle said that he,/and Mrs. Eudd, and Miss E. D.
Ponder, had been making inquiries for some time in Erixton
for rooms in which seances and spiritual meetings could
be held. Some who had rooms to let, objected to Spiritualism
altogether, others] did not, but objected to publicity being
given to such meetings, if held upon their premises; he
therefore was not sure he could get any rooms for the
purposes of the society at present.
Mr. Fitzgerald said that while rooms were being sought for,
the nominal address of the society might be his house, to
which letters could be addressed pro tem. The society also
might meet there once a week for a short time, until it had
obtained rooms of its own. (Applause.)
Mr. Tapp moved that this generous offer be accepted with
thanks.
Mr. Ashton seconded the motion, which was carried with
acclamation.
LECTUEE BV MB. D. H. WILSON.
Mr. Eendle announced that Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.
(Cantab.), was about to deliver a lecture in Brixton, entitled
“ Criticisms Hostile to Spiritualism Eefuted and Discussed.”
He would suggest that this lecture should be given early in
March, under the auspices of the Brixton Psychological
Society. This offer was accepted with thanks.
Mr. Ashton suggested that Dr. Kenealy be invited to
preside.
Mr. Tapp thought that the Parliamentary duties of Dr.
Kenealy would absorb all his energies for the present—
(Laughter); he therefore did not think it advisable that the
learned doctor should be asked. (Applause.)
Mr. Eendle moved, and Mrs. Eudd seconded, that the first
meeting of the Council should be held that day week. This
was passed unanimously, and the proceedings closed.
A REINCARNATED BABY.
{Translated from the “ Revue-Spirite " for February, 1876.)
Vevey, Dec. 18, 1874.
Hebe is a curious experience which has occurred through
the mediumship of my second little son, aged three years.
Some time before his birth, spirits announced to me that the
child would be gifted with powerful medial faculties; and
many very singular physical manifestations which have oc¬
curred in his presence, at different times, have confirmed me
in the faith that I had in their word. I was given to under¬
stand that, several ages ago, this child was incarnated in
England, where he gave himself up to the practice of necro¬
mancy, alchemy, and astrology, by means of which much evil
accrued, and which at length brought upon him a miserable
death. His present incarnation, 1 am assured, is accorded
in order to give him an opportunity of repairing the evil
which he committed long ago, by contributing to the
building up of the Spiritist temple at which we are
working, by means of the medial powers which he has
brought with him as a legacy from his last incarnation.
All this is logical, and entirely in agreement with our
notions respecting the object of reincarnation. Well, then,
some weeks back, the child was playing and prattling in my
study, when I suddenly heard him talking about England,
concerning which country nobody, to my knowledge, had ever
spoken to him. This roused my attention, and I asked him
if he knew what England meant ? He answered me: “ Oh
yes; it is a country where I was a very, very long time ago.”
Q. Were you a little boy then as you are now ?—A. Oh no ;
I was tall, taller than you are, and I had a long heard !
Q. Were mamma and I with you then?—A. No; I had
another papa and another mamma.
Q. And what were you doing ?—A. I played a good deal with
fire, and once I burnt myself so, that I died.
I think you must acknowledge that if even all this is no
other than a child’s reverie, yet that the coincidence is suf¬
ficiently strange to make one believe that reminiscences may
come even to a child in his play.
Some weeks back, the same little boy went to his mother in
the morning, telling her that his grandmother (whom he had
only seen when a baby of some months old, therefore of whom
he could have had no recollection) had come to her and had
passed the night talking to her; and that he had seen her
well and had heard her. Now it so happened, that my wife
had been dreaming much about her mother, who had died
some months previously. What think you of this ?
Emile de W * * *.
EXTRAORDINARY SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS
IN MANCHESTER.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
I was impressed a few days ago to write to Dr. Monck,
requesting him to pay me a visit, little thinking at the time of
the importance of the issues involved, but which the sequel
will show. My own family being somewhat dubious about the
phenomenal part of Spiritualism, I thought it would give
them an opportunity of witnessing in their own home things
which would remove their doubts; but, more than all, I was
wishful to see the effects of the presence of such a gifted
medium in our own private circle, where loving hearts, with
scientific intelligence and intuitive perception of spiritual
truth are combined. The results proved eminently satisfac¬
tory to my own family, where Dr. Monck was guest during
his sojourn, and who gained their confidence and friendship
by his [suavity and homeliness, and what transpired at the
circle assumed an importance which cannot be overrated.
As time was limited, the .doctor only arriving on Thursday
evening at six, we had tea, and sat as soon as the table was
cleared. After sitting about ten minutes the raps were heard,
and several messages spelt out, relating to one present and
from one lately deceased. This was remarkable, as it was a
clear impossibility for Dr. Monck to have known anything of our
private domestic history. After he went behind the curtains
in the window recess, lights were visible, one of which formed
into a beautiful hand. Yesterday evening we had a sitting in
another room, and after a while the message was given—
“Darken the room.” The gas was turned off, and the medium
was entranced. A deceased parent came, andgave unmistakable
proofs of identity by giving me several messages to her chil¬
dren, mentioning their names. The medium was then floated
up to the ceiling, where we heard him clap the ceiling with
his hands. “ Samuel,” the controlling spirit, then called me
to rise and stand against the door; when 1 was about six
inches in front of it, the medium came down and sat on my
shoulders. 1 held both his feet in front of me, and walked
about a yard with him on my shoulders, when he was taken
off in an instant and deposited in his chair. Strange to say,
I felt him no heavier than a child, and could have carried him
for miles at the same weight. My son was then called out,
and we stood side by side, when the medium was placed on
both our shoulders, and it was all we could do this time to
sustain him, the weight being oppressive.
It was now nearly eight o’clock: I and the Doctor took a
cab to visit a private circle in another part of the city. Arriving
there, I simply introduced him as Dr. Monck, not mentioning
any names. We sat immediately round an oval table, when
Samuel, the chief speaker of his attendant spirits, accosted
two or three by name, and referred to circumstances connected
with their respective families. Samuel next announced the
presence of two of our own attendant angels, giving their
names, well known to us ; and then took place a scene of sur¬
passing interest. The medium presented a majestic appear¬
ance, his countenance beaming with radiancy; he slowly rose
from his chair, clasped his hands, and raised them gently
above his head, ejaculating words which we did not under¬
stand. He next slowly walked round the table to one who
sat opposite to him: placing his right hand on the head of
this one, and raising his left hand, looking upwards (though
his eyes were closed, except the white lower parts), he spoke
as follows:—“ Brother Osiris, in the name of the High One,
and of those assembled with you, I consecrate you; I con¬
secrate you to your holy office, with the holy anointing oil;
let it run down your garments, even to the fringes; do your
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 26, 1875.
work, and we will be with you at the hour of what you call
death; faint notafter which he returned to his seat.
This scene may possibly be imagined, but the intense
interest, unction, and gravity of the moment will never pass
away from the minds of those who witnessed this ceremony;
a revelation was made, and the consequences of this important
meeting may possibly shortly be made apparent.
Again resuming our seats, the order was given to turn off
the light, when immediately hands were felt by several or most
of the sitters. We heard a sound as if a heavy earth-sod were
thrown on the floor, and it made the room shake. A water-
bottle, nearly full, was carried round, and rubbed against
several of the faces of those near the table ; we also heard the
sound of many things being put on the table, and some as
being thrown under it, the medium all the while sitting between
myself and another, each holding one of his hands the whole
time. I then felt the medium rise up suddenly, and a weight
hanging from my arm; thelight being turned on, the chair upon
which the medium had been sitting was seen suspended from
my left arm, my hand still grasping his; the table was literally
covered with articles from the chimney-piece and other parts
of the room; an album was picked up from the feet of a
lady present, still closed, and one of the cards had been taken
out and deposited near her right foot. On looking at the
floor, we found, instead of the sod we expected to see,
some grains of hard white spar, ranging in size from that of
a pea to small grains, about as much as would form the bulk
of a small walnut; on looking further, we found that a piece
of this size had been broken off a lump of hard white spar
rock on the mantel-piece, with which the pieces quite cor¬
responded.
What appeared white transparent lights now' presented
themselves, when one formed into a face at once recognised by
two of the party as that of the deceased father of one of the
sitters.
Thus ended one of the most remarkable seances that it has
been my privilege to witness. If those whose ignorance or
folly, or something worse, only knew what they missed by de¬
manding tests of their own making, they would do far better
to leave it to the controlling spirits, who in sue h cases them¬
selves propose and furnish tests far more conclusive than any
that suspicious people can devise; such do not think that by
questioning the veracity and integrity of their neighbours
they are revealing their own characters.
Just one word as to circles, and I have done. My observa¬
tion and experience prove that seven should form a circle of
thoroughly harmonious minds in their desire to obtain the
higher knowledge of spirit life; when this is determined,
appoint a secretary to record the communications given, and
it will be found that there are seven attendant spirits, whose
names will be given; these names will reveal the character
and quality of the controlling spirits, who are representatives
of some human quality of intelligence and affection. I am
persuaded if those who are seeking interior truths relating to
the human spirit will adopt this course, they will be richly
rewarded. William Oxley.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, Feh. 20th, 1875.
Mb.. Chables Beackbuen has accepted office as a Yioe-
President of the National Association of Spiritualists.
Spibitualism in Htjngaey.—A letter from the Baroness
Von Vay, dated Gonobitz, Feb. 15th, informs us that she and
Baron Vay took their medium, Mrs. Pucher, to Pesth for a
fortnight, where the latter gave twelve consecutive materiali¬
sation seances, some of them under bad conditions, several
persons unacquainted with the phenomena being present. The.
controlling spirit did not show much more than his hands,
which were larger than those of the medium; he exhibited some
large spirit lights, one of which had the form of a “ staff.” Mrs.
Pucher also obtained loud raps through her mediumship, in
the light. On Sunday, Feb. 14th, the Baron and Baroness
Vay gave a seance io upwards of sixty persons in their great
hall; Mrs. Pucher was the medium, and she sat in a cabinet
composed of screens covered with a plaid. She was nervous
at having to appear before so many observers, some of whom
were not Spiritualists, so her spirits gave a message through
her writing mediumship, asking M. Nicholas Vay to mesmerise
her inside the cabinet; the manifestations were not strong.
Our correspondent thinks the visit to Pesth to have resulted
in good to the Spiritual movement there. Her letter breaks
off abruptly with the statement that “ her patients were waiting
for their medicines,” for Baroness Vay spends much of her
time in doing good to the sick and afflicted.
WHO MADE YOU ? TWO SONNETS.
I.
“ My child, who made you? ” “ Made me!” I reply.'
“ The gases generating seas and land—
The waves that lisp along the thirsty sand—-
Primeval fossils, heron, moose and fly—
Fires in the crater and snn-flres on high—
Boreas the biting—Zephyrus the bland—
The fleece of Jason—wares of Samarcand—
My mother’s prayer—my nurse’s lullaby—
School slates and palimpsests—ships—harbour bars—
Things far and near, minute, great, old and new—
Calumets, capstans, mines, and falling stars—
Siva—skald—fetich—systems false and true—
Blacks in the canes and Csesar’s in their cars,
And all that is, and has been.—Who made you ? ”
II.
“ I am the outcome of all things that went
Before me, and that, even to this hour,
Exist on earth or in the firmament;
For nothing is unsubject to the power
And influence of all besides. The dower
Of each man is with Nature to be blent,
To be the mind-and-body woven bower
By countless architects upreared, and meant
To stand for ever. And this mortal frame
Can no more perish than th’ immortal mind.
It will but change its hues and form, the same
Bemaining, consort of the soul, behind;
And each impression that upon me came
In life will with my future be combined.”
J. C. E.
GTorresponxiettce. *.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIEITUAIiISM AND THEOLOGICAL DOGMAS.
Sib,—An essential element at the commencement of a
discussion is that the premises be clearly stated, and that
the subject to be discussed be defined in the plainest possible
words.
Before entering upon such a discussion as that which Mr.
Pearce invites you to open in your columns, it is, I think,
necessary that he should be asked to explain himself more
clearly.
He says, “ The two major issues raised are
(а) The Divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ.
(б) The plenary inspiration of the Scriptures.”
With reference to (a)—Does Mr. Pearce mean that:—The
Lord Jesus Christ was God? If so, would he object to the
substitution of that form of expression ? If he does not mean
so, will he explain what he does mean in words which half-a-
dozen readers will not understand in as many different ways ?
With reference to (6)—What does Mr. Pearce mean by “ the
Scriptures?” Does he mean “ the Holy Bible” as published
by authority in this country ? And by “ plenary ” does he
mean the literal sense of the word to be accepted ? If other¬
wise, will he kindly explain himself ?
Mr. Pearce’s own letter shows the necessity of the precau¬
tions I am urging; for in the following paragraph he uses the
phrase “ inspiration of the Scriptures,” $s if he considered a
belief in them to be incompatible with their being also “un¬
reliable.” Mr. Pearce apparently employs the phrases
“plenary inspiration” and “inspiration” as identical, and
also implies a confusion in his own mind between the ideas
of “inspiration” and “infallibility.”
It seems to me absolutely necessary that definitions should
to be as clear and explicit as possible for a discussion to be of
any real benefit,
' It is true, as Mr. Pearce beautifully says, that a man’s life
does gradually conform to the ideal he inmostly worships.
Hence the infinite importance of the highest possible ideal.
Edwabd T. Bennett.
Betchwortli, Feb. 21st, 1876.
[Without clear definitions such as Mr. Bennett requests, it is obviously
impossible to proceed further without confusion in this discussion. We
do not see what good can arise from considering these theological dogmas,
for in the end the controversialists are sure to adhere, as at first, to those
ideas which they like best, and which are, to a great extent, hereditary
and ineradicable. The questions at issue ought rather to be fought out in
the columns of The Christian World; but unfortunately orthodox journals
are usually afraid to let both sides of such problems be heard, and warn
their readers against perusing “infidel books;” this line of action is of
itself an open confession of consciousness of weakness. No good came of
bringing theological matters into the deliberations of the Council of the
National Association of Spiritualists some months ago, except to cause
wearisome delay and expense, and to introduce the risk of breaking up
the first successful attempt in this country at united friendly action among
Feb. 26, 1875. THE SPIBITUALIST. 105
Spiritualists, the great bulk of whom, fortunately, have proved too Christ-
like in practice to care to separate from each other over such questions.
All the letters sent us on these subjects ought to be of a kindly and conci¬
liatory tone.—Ed.]
Sir,—The questions which your correspondents, Mr. Geo. M.
Sutherland and Mr. C. W. Pearce, discuss in your paper of
February 19 th, are doubtless looked upon by many Spirit¬
ualists as of very grave importance. Your correspondent,
Mr. Pearce, raises questions of the most sweeping kind, and
settles them off-hand by laying down what he calls fixed laws,
that, to his mind, completely dispose of the matter. I am
sorry to say I cannot agree with his premises, and am, there¬
fore, not likely to arrive at the same conclusions as
himself. He first asks “Is it of consequence that the
truth or falsity of the divinity of Christ and the
inspiration of the Scriptures should be established?”
and answers it immediately by “ Yes, every way; because
it is a fixed law, perceived by every intelligent person,
that a man’s life gradually conforms to the quality of the
ideal he inmostly worships.”
In reply to this I defy your correspondent to prove that it
is of any consequence either to a man’s present or his future
happiness to believe anything of the kind. No such belief
ever could or ever did per se make a man happier in the next
life as far as I have ever discovered from the revelations of
spirits. The communicating spirit through whom the Spirit
Teachings have been given in your paper, neither believes in
one nor the other. Neither do the spirits who speak so beauti¬
fully through Mrs. Tappan, nor does our old friend Tien-sien-tie
through Mr. Morse ; yet the man who denies that their teach¬
ings have for their object “ the honour and glory of God, the
elevation or progression of man’s spirit heavenwards, love to
the neighbour, and abnegation of self,” must either be inca¬
pable of understanding the English language, or be too
bigoted to admit that it can have any such meaning. Now,
sir, these last words I have quoted from the letter of your cor¬
respondent Mr. Sutherland, who writes to praise his own
spirit-communications, which he tells us are all of the above
quality of teaching. Yet, in the same letter, he is careful to
tell your readers that he will have nothing to do with spirits
who do not “ bow down to and worship our Lord Jesus Christ
as God.” If, therefore, the teaching of those I have enumerated
—and I could also add the names of A. J. Davis, Peebles, and
Hardinge—are to the same effect as those your correspondent
Mr. Sutherland swears by (merely because they endorse his
own creed), and of this your readers are all able to judge, then
I consider Mr. Pearce’s assertion that it is of consequence
that “ the truth or falsity of their denials be established” is
entirely disproved. If we get similar teachings from non¬
believers in Christ’s divinity to what we had from Christ
Himself, how can it be of consequence to believe it or to dis¬
believe it?
According to Mr. Pearce, every one who disbelieves the
divinity of Christ sinks into pantheism or polytheism. “ He
has no divine image to which his life can conform if God be
not manifest in the flesh.” This last is an assertion that I
can quite agree with, but the only difference between me and
Mr. Pearce is that he thinks, for some reason or other for
which neither he nor any one else can give the slightest proof,
that God manifested Himself in the person of one man only,
whereas I think He manifests Himself in all men, and the
best men of all ages afford us ideals enough to which to con¬
form our lives. Mr. Pearce says that if we reject Christ as
our ideal, “ every one fashions his own god, but he can only do
so after an ideal, and nature only remains,” according to which
one would conclude that he ignores the existence of all other
evidences of God’s creative powers but Christ and nature.
Does Mr. Pearce require to be reminded that the laws of
nature are the laws of God, and that man is ever living
under those laws, and can only attain happiness by conform¬
ing to them, and that moral laws are just as much the laws of
nature and of God as physical laws ? Christ was a discoverer
in the region of moral law, as Galileo, Franklin, and Newton
have been in the region of physical law. He is therefore no
more entitled to be made a God of than Franklin or Newton.
All men in the scientific world do not bow down and worship
these discoverers, but we judge of their own knowledge from
the extent to which they conform to the opinions of previous
discoverers, and it makes no difference whether they ever
heard of those discoverers or not. When, however, a man
denies that the earth is round, and seeks to prove that it is
flat, we estimate the value of his teachings accordingly.
Seeing, therefore, that the spirits whom I have alluded to as
denying the divinity of Christ, nevertheless endorse the great
moral laws which He taught (if He did not discover them), I
consider that they recognise the divinity of Christ in the only
sense of the word in which it deserves to be recognised, and
they prove, as He said Himself, that “ he that is not
against us is on our part.”
As to the conclusion which Mr. Pearce and “ Ex-Spirit-
nalist” alike come 'to, namely, that “ the consequences of
abandoning faith in Christ for the false teachings of mediums
are miserable,” of course its value depends entirely on what
he calls “ false teachings.” First prove that the spirit which
dwelt in the body of Christ emanated from a more divine
source than the spirit which dwells in the body of every child
born into the world to-day, and it will be time enough to cha¬
racterise as “ false teachings ” whatever, emanates from a man
who does not believe in Christ’s divine origin, simply because
he sees no sufficient proof of it. I could say much more on
this subject, but I know your space is too limited. I can only
say, in conclusion, that I am amazed at the narrowness which
seems to characterise those who think that we Christians are
the only favoured mortals on the face of the earth, and that
millions upon millions of human beings in America, China,
India, and elsewhere, who have all their own “Bibles” and
their own “ Christs,” and have never heard of our Bible and
our Christ, are necessarily miserable self-deluded wretches,
whom we can afford to look down upon with pity. Fritz.
Manchester, Feb. 21st, 1875.
[So far as we know, Mr. Pearce held the same views as “ Fritz ” a few
years ago, for he sent a circular letter to all the members of Parliament,
exhorting them to prohibit the reading of the Bible in schools, in order not
to encourage what he called a “ degrading superstition.”—Ed.]
Sir,—My seven reasons for renouncing [Renounce, v., to
disown, to abnegate.—Johnson's Dictionary'] Modern Spirit¬
ualism, having called forth a long criticism, allow me to make
seven remarks in reply.
1. It may be desirable for some readers of The Spiritualist,.
kindly to reconsider the “ Theological Objections ” published
last week. I believe these are my last words in any publication
of the kind.
2. Christianity is surely not an hereditary religion, but a
gift. “ The gift of God is eternal life, through Jesus Christ
our Lord.”
3. The word “Antichrist” is no “vague expression” to
those who study intelligently the Epistles of St. John.
4. The writings of Swedenborg and T. L. Harris, accepted
as truth, must lead out from the practice of sitting for spirits;
even the healing power referred to, attracts people to them, not
Christ.
5. To meet the idea of a retraction of former convictions
requiring the name to make it a full one, it will now be given.
6. It is a “ reason ” for renouncing the whole system, that
one who thoroughly investigated, after all, saw the injurious
effects, in the long run, on its adherents.
7. The three little words, “ as a rule,” [are omitted in the
criticism, which makes the seventh reason look like a
“ sweeping statement.” This was never meant to be conveyed
by the “ Ex-Spiritualist-” Mart Hat.
Brighton.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN BRIGHTON.
Sir,—I feel bound, at the request of “ Samuel,” the con¬
trolling spirit of Dr. Monck, to give a brief account of some of
the manifestations which were produced at my house. During
the seance we numbered in all fourteen or fifteen, too great a
number, it appears, for Dr. Monck’s manifestations ; after
sitting in the light and having only raps, a few were touched.
I then proposed to try the dark. We soon had the accordion
playing over our heads, and Dr. Monck being entranced,
Samuel spoke to everybody, answering all kinds of questions,
but we had the best manifestations after midnight, when
all our guests had left. My son having proposed to try
direct writing, we returned to the dining-room, and were
favoured in a few moments with direct writing in a very pecu¬
liar way. After this, several objects, as a watch-box, my
son’s watch, and a tumbler containing water, were seen to move
without any contact with anybody. The accordion was then
tied up with a cord, and put into a pillow-case, and again tied
up with cord, and, While held by Dr. Monck in full sight,
sounds were produced. After this, the room being darkened,
“ Sarah ” and “ W Z ” were given in luminous letters, “ W Z ”
being the initials of a lady friend of my daughter, who passed
away some years ago. A large light in the shape of a moon
was next produced; and, finally, Dr. Monck was lifted about
twenty inches from the floor, my children feeling both his feet
when he was suspended. This is the first time I have seen
106
TtfU SPitlITtfALIST.
Feb. 26,1875
Dr. Monck. I may add, that though the number of sitters
must be limited to six or seven to have powerful manifesta¬
tions, I consider him one of the best test mediums in England.
T. N. Tiedeman Martheze.
Brighton, 20 Feb. 1875.
SEANCE WITH MRS. CORNER (FLORENCE COOK).
Sib,—I was at Mrs. Edward Corner’s last night; Mr. and
Miss Cook, and Mr. Crookes, also Mrs. and Miss Corner, were
there. We had no materialisations, but a very powerful dark
amice occurred. Six of us joined hands; one of the guitar
strings soon bound my wrist to Florrie’s, the string being
managed by a powerful brawny pair of hands, thus fastening
us both to the guitar. Whilst this was being done, other
hands were busy playing on the piano ; others had the tam¬
bourine, also the accordion in the air near the ceiling, whilst
books and papers were in profusion tumbled into my lap.
Shortly the instruments fell, one hitting Mr. Crookes on the
skull; the table also leaped much about. We then, on my
side of the table, were pushed from our seats on to the floor,
thus the chain of hands became broken; a light was struck,
showing Mr. Crookes and myself on our beam ends ; in this
position Mr. Crookes pulled out his knife, and cut the guitar
strings which bound me and the medium together at the
wrists. We gathered ourselves up and sat again in the dark,
something similar being done, hands feeling our faces, and
the tambourine battering my head more than I liked. I then
asked for an iron ring which lay on the table to come on my
arm whilst I had hold of the medium’s hand, and it did so;
it had previously done so on Mr. Crookes’s arm. We then
closed the seance, which was the first dark seance Mr. Crookes
ever had with the medium ; he studying more the materialisa¬
tion phenomena where light is used. Chas. Blackburn.
ParkTeld, Didsbury, near Manchester, Feb. 17th.
PRIVATE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—It may be interesting to your readers who remember
my previous statements of the striking proof given of identity,
by the same spirit through five different mediums, to have
another instance added, which seems to confirm the conclusion
that not always unconsoieus cerebration, but absolute inde¬
pendent intelligence may account for certain facts. On
Thursday last, when I returned home to dinner, I found to my
surprise and delight Dr. Monck in my room; he had just
arrived on a visit to Manchester. After exchanging a few
words, we found ourselves in perfect harmony, which extended
even to an equal amount of appetite for our dinner, and so we
sat down to discuss material matters with knife and fork in
hand; but a volley of raps, increasing in strength and rapidity,
surprised us, and, on inquiry, the name of our invisible guest
proved to be the name of my constant spirit-guides. This
would not appear remarkable but for the positive assertion of
Dr. Monck that he did not know the name before, and, more¬
over, when I asked for the peculiar signal (a certain rythmical
succession of raps), it was, after some time, correctly given,
and in so loud and joyous a manner as to express pleasure in
being able to manifest through so powerful a medium. After
this successful introduction, I anticipate good results from
Dr. Monck’s expected next visit, which may prove of immense
influence in this town, where the want of good professional
mediums accounts for the slow progress. C. Beimebs,
Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester, Feb. 21, 1875.
PREVISION AT OXFORD.
Silt,—I came across a curious case of clairvoyance in dreams
the other day, which I think may prove as interesting to
others as it wrs to me. I have not the least doubt of the
genuineness of the circumstances. The clairvoyant from whose
lips I heard the story is a quarryman working in one of the
stone-pits in the neighbourhood, and I know enough of him
to feel sure that he is perfectly honest and truthful.
Some years ago, whilst working in another quarry near here,
he had a dream three nights in succession, in which he saw a
large block of stone fall down and crush another man, whilst
he himself escaped uninjured. Exactly three weeks after the
last dream he was unexpectedly called away from his work at
the quarry one afternoon, and heard on his return that the
fellow-workman whom he had seen in his dream had actually
been killed by a fall of stone a few yards from the spot there
represented.
A short time after this occurrence he dreamed on Thursday
night that a fall of stone had taken place whilst the workmen
were out of the quarry, and had buried all the wheelbarrows
and such tools as were left behind. This dream he told to his
employer on the Friday morning, and on the ensuing Sunday
the occurrence took place as foreseen; there was a heavy fall
of stone on all sides of the quarry, and the wheelbarrows and
other implements were buried beneath it and smashed to
pieces.
I may mention that our conversation was led on to the sub¬
ject of dreams by the man telling me that he was in some
distress from a dream which he had had a few nights ago, in
which he saw his mother, wife, and some other friends in a
coffin. He was naturally afraid that this vision also might
shortly come true. If I can gather any further particulars
from this man himself, or his family, I will send them to you.
Frank Podmobe.
Pembroke College, Oxon.
CHRIST HEALING THE SICK.
Sib,—It must seem very strange to those Spiritualists who
retain the Christian faith, and to others, that in the Bible
there is but one instance of the spirit of a dead person
appearing, and that one the result of witchcraft. I think but
one instance, though spirits there were in plenty, but not the
spirits of the dead; nay, St. Paul declares, that those who
say that the resurrection is past already, make shipwreck of
the faith, and that their words eat like a canker. (1 Tim.
i. 19 ; comp. 2 Tim. ii. 18.) It is clear, then, that Christ was
not a medium or Spiritualist in the modem sense; but that
He had a remarkable gift of healing is certain, still it is not
true, as many Christians have asserted, that all His cures
were instantaneous, and therefore miraculous. As I have
shown in my letters to Miss Martineau (Letter XVIII., in
reply to the Bev. George Sandby) in these words, “ There are
many most distressing cases of purely nervous condition
which I have cured almost instantaneously.” Nor is touch¬
ing always requisite, as Mr. Sandby supposes. In the case of
the man who was dumb, and had an impediment in his
speech, it is described that Christ took him aside from the
multitude, and put His fingers into his ears; and He spat,
and touched his tongue, &c. This is clearly a mesmeric pro¬
cess ; and we know not how long the process occupied; the
patient was taken aside for the purpose. In another case,
Christ spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle; and
He anointed the eyes 6f the blind man with the clay, and
then bade him go and wash in the Pool of Siloam. Again, in
the case of the man with the dumb spirit, after his fit, he
becomes “ as one dead,” or in a mesmeric sleep; and Christ
took him by the hand, and he arose. Again, in the case of
blindness, the influence is clearly not instantaneous; for, first,
there is a partial recovery, the seeing persons like moving trees.
The operation is renewed before the complete sight is restored.
But I need not continue these instances, which nothing but
professional blindness in one aware of the nature of mes¬
merism could overlook. Compassion for the sufferings of the
people seems to have been the ruling impulse of most of the
great founders of religion, as so pre-eminently exemplified in
Christ and Buddah, and the desire to invest with a divine
sanction their wise laws and benevolent precepts, and deeds of
charity seem ever to have been the noble basis of true spirit¬
uality. Thus religion seems rather to spring from morality
than morality to be derived from religion, and Christ, the
great physician and philanthropist, will ever remain a glorious
example to be followed, even though we may not believe Him
to have been the God that has been supposed, and we may be
sure that His compassion and sympathy would have been
excited in respect to that poor sleeping girl at Turville.
No doubt Mr. Ashman is a good healing medium, but a
lady would be more fit in the present case, for reasons I need
not explain, but which may be easily supposed. It was by the
aid of a lady that I cured Miss Martineau, when she was given
up by the physicians after five years’ confinement to the sick
room in the most distressing condition; and a year after the
cure she was standing on the top of the great pyramid of
Egypt, and there was no relapse. Henbt G. Atkinson.
Hotel de la Glare, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
THE ENTRANCE TO SPIRIT-LIFE.
Sib,—You have inserted many kinds of spirit messages in
your journal, but I do not remember to have seen one pur¬
porting to be descriptive of the first entrance to spirit-
Feb. 26, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
107
life. I therefore send you the following, given to me by the
spirit of my loved grandfather, the Bev. Stephen Morell. The
account of the “ spirit visitations” referred to in this message,
was given to your readers some months ago :—
‘“I have no distinct recollection of the exact time of the
freeing of my spirit from its earth-body. It was so gradually
drawn away during the sleep of nature; no pain; not even
that of separation from loved ones on earth. S— had told me
my time was over, and had been with me whilst I was
preaching to my beloved people, that last Sunday I spent
on your earth. But, whilst unconscious of the passing
away, my child ! would that I could describe to you, in
the faintest degree, the joyful surprise, the intense delight,
that awaited me in my spirit-home, my home of rest!
“ I was first conscious only of wonderful peace and happi¬
ness ; sense of rest, repose, and calm, loving assurance of the
immediate presence of love. I did not see anything, but I
thought I was just arousing from a long refreshing sleep, and
was about to awake, as usual.
“ I was bathed, as it were, in floods of melody and joy. The
sweet voices of my * lost ones’ were near me, uttering words of
welcome. Thus was my spirit sense of hearing the first
opened to me. Then were my eyes opened, and I found
myself, no longer the weak aged pilgrim of earth, but, freed
from the enshacklement of the body, my spirit had arisen
young, joyous, glad.
“ My spirit vision first opened to see around me the atmo¬
spheres, and then the beloved forms of my children. They
were standing by me, ministering to my spirit’s wants, as I
was lying on my couch of rest, which was in a most beautiful
garden. The couch was formed by living flowers and fruits,
and was canopied over by a graceful vine-tree.
(<I stretched forth my hand to gather these fruits and
flowers, and as my touch came to them, I received nourish¬
ment and strength by the aromal essence that was at once
infused into my spirit-life in all its senses of tasting, hearing,
seeing, and smelling; for there came forth tones of music,
and the air was all responsive to the joyous songs of welcome
from my loved ones by my side.
“ It was some time before I could realise that this was no
beautiful dream from which I should awake, finding myself on
my bed of weakness in the old home at the manse.
“ My joy was all too great, when the consciousness dawned
upon me that I was in the presence of divinity, and that I had
reached the home of the blessed.
“Much did my loved qnes tell me as I held converse with
them in their spirit language; and intense was my wonder
now that the reality of all that dear S had taught me in
his spirit visitations, was proved to me by actual presence and
sight.
“ Each of our dear ones have a home, and one was
prepared for me. A house built of precious stones, glowing
beneath the wondrous atmospheric hue surrounding it, radiant
also with living verdure. Carpets, where needed, were formed
of growing grass, sparkling and beautiful, as has been de¬
scribed to you, my child; and as all the houses described to
you have been wondrously beautiful, spiritually ethereal in all
the various appointments, so was mine, unworthy as I was.
“ As my vision opened, I read God’s word upon the walls of
my rooms; there also 1 beheld a review of my earthly career,
with the interpretation, all clear, of God’s mercy, even shown
in the darkest hour.
“ I found how greatly I had cause to rejoice, inasmuch as
that He had afflicted me—most especially and deeply in the
removal of my children from my hearth. Ah! my child, the
lightest as well as the heaviest sorrow is sent for a specific
purpose, and is truly a blessing.”
I asked, “ Did you at once know your children in the spirit
home ? ”
“Yes, I knew them. When necessary for recognition, a
spirit can always assume the once familiar appearance. This
is not always necessary, as spirit communion alone can reveal
the knowledge, independent of external appearance. It is a
mesmeric drawing of spirit to spirit. But I beheld my chil¬
dren first as they had been to me, so dear, so beautiful, in their
youth and health, ere their bodies were so reduced by the
consumption that took them from me. Gradually their full
spiritual beauty was opened to my sight, in which was lost the
earthly beauty. Thus, my fatherly yearnings were doubly
granted,—by seeing them first, as of old; and then seeing all
the wondrous power of the spirit-life expansion that had
gone on since we parted. My child, grieve not, but rejoice,
when a loved one is transplanted to the gardens of our
Father God.
“ My great and ever-increasing delight in studying God’s
word, as given forth in every path, in every leaf and flower, in
the ever-conscious presence of Divinity, without a veil be¬
tween, is beyond power of expression.
“ The Infinite Love is displayed in all things—the beauty
which lives around, and gives expansion to all the innate
love of the spirit-life. This is truly living ! Such life as the
germ-like life on earth can give no conception of—God in
Christ walks in our midst, and converses with us, setting His
mark upon us all. As we attain the sphere of spirit-life, freed
from the last taint of earthliness, then we are clothed upon
and receive the mark of Christ’s life and love upon our bodies,
our spiritual bodies.
“All spirits have great responsibilities and duties allotted
to them, according to their tastes and acquirements, which
vary here as on your earth ; as it was always my delight to
expound, to the extent of my power, the love of God and the
gospel of Christ on earth, so do I now have classes of spirits,
and am taught to teach. Yes. I mean that Christ, having
received me as a member of His society, teaches me what to.
teach others. It is ‘always thus here. Our lives blend with
the God and Christ life through the pervading spirit-life
around, which imparts to us all knowledge, high, holy, pure,
so different to the mingled knowledge of good and evil on
your earth.
“ My child, shrink not from the passing on at the death of
the earth body to birth into spirit-life. Abide patiently God’s
time ; bear cheerfully His will; live in prayer, and work out
your own salvation with fear and trembling. Then shall
your peace on earth be great, and your everlasting joy here
beyond expression, beautiful.
“It is not in the nature of spirit intercourse—if carried on
in the spirit of prayer—to undervalue or depreciate the high
and holy Spirit of God, the One Ruler over all. Were such
to be the tendency in any especial mind, be sure the influence
is from a low, evil, or undeveloped source.
“We, the God-spirits, are embodied mediums, employed by
God, and allowed thus to draw aside the veil of dark
humanity. But we, of ourselves, could no more teach of good
and God, without the direct workings ofi the high Spirit
of God than your earth could shine in thejbeautiful light of
heaven without the sun of the firmament.
“ It is an inseparable condition, and always must and will
be.” F. J. T.
St. Leonard’s-on-Sea. ■
THE CURE OF DISEASE BY MESMERISM.
Sib,—I think of sending a little of my past experience, of
twenty years, as a lecturer on mesmerism; I have given more
than 3,000 demonstrations on the subject, so I flatter myself
that I have had much experience in every form. You will see
by the circular accompanying this that some good and wise
men have attended my lectures at different times, both in and
out of London.
On some occasions, I have operated on sensitives, some¬
times by the touch, at other times when quite unconscious of
doing anything. In the case of a young lady in Manchester,
who was quite blind, I have merely entered the room in which
she was sitting, sometimes going to its opposite side without
speaking, and without her knowing I was present; in a short
time she would begin to move on her seat, then get up and
come across the room towards me, and would express her
surprise when she found me there.
Another time when at Preston, in Lancashire, Mr. J. J.
Myers, coroner, denied the doctrine of mesmeric attraction.
One day each of us was in a room, in which a subject of mine
was also present; she was putting on her bonnet, at the other
side, with her back to us; she came back until she was close
to Mr. Myers; he then gave in and said it was wonderful;
this looks like something like an electric current passing
between us.* I have known Dr. Hitchman for many years; I
am not acquainted with Mr. Yarley, but I am glad he
has taken up the cause: I am happy to say whatever the
power is, I have been enabled to cure three cases, by its
benign influence. One lady who had been in a lunatic asylum
for five years, is now quite well and attending to her husiness;
and a lady, afflicted with extreme weakness, internally, quite
recovered; the last case was that of a boy who was very bad
with St. Vitus’s Dance. He is now well.
H. Hudson.
Swansea.
* It is evidence of mesmeric rapport, but no evidence of the presence of
electricity. If electricity were present it would not be competent to
produce suck effects.
108
Feb. 26, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A SEANCE WITH SECULARISTS AT BIRMINGHAM.
Stbangb things are now taking place in Secularist circles in
Birmingham. Towards the end of last year Mr. Gr. H. Red-
dalls, Mr. John Bussell, and other leading local sceptics,
anxious to investigate Spiritualism, applied for permission to
attend seances at the Spiritual Institute, Suffolk-street. It
seems, however, that their presence was not desired. They
were informed, at all events, that their reguest could not be
complied with. But Mr. Reddalls and his friends were not the
men to be easily turned aside. About the beginning of De¬
cember they commenced to hold seances for investigation in
St. George’s-hall, Dean-street, which, as our readers are aware,
is the head-quarters of Secularism in the Midland Counties.
According to their own account, remarkable things were
witnessed almost from the first. Night after night the mani¬
festations increased in power, variety, and marvellousness.
Latterly, therefore, a public character has been given to these
Secularist seances, which are now two in number weekly,
namely, on Thursday and Sunday evenings, at half-past eight;
and, for convenience, the place of meeting has been changed
from St. George’s-hall to the house of Mr. Reddalls, 136, Dig-
beth, who, it should be stated, is generally regarded as the
leading Secularist in these parts. Mr. Reddalls, indeed, is
pretty well known as editor of the Secular Chronicle, a weekly
journal, established to promote free inquiry into social, poli¬
tical and theological questions, and as a record of free-thought
progress. He carries on an extensive business as a printer
and newsagent at 136, Digbeth, and is generally a leader in
all local movements connected with free-thought and questions
specially affecting the working classes.
Having received an invitation to attend the seance held last
night, our reporter, who was present, thus describes what
occurred:—
“ The company numbered fifteen, including myself, and the
meeting took place in a room behind Mr. Reddalls’ shop. The
two mediums were Mr. Reddalls and Mr. Russell. I was told,
upon inquiry, that four of the gentlemen present were Spirit¬
ualists, the others being unbelievers. The only lady in the
room was a young niece of Mr. Reddalls. The mediums
stated, in answer to a question, that they would cheerfully
submit to any test which might be imposed. The doors,
which open outwards, were securely fastened, the handles
being tied with ropes to the legs of tables in the room. Every
person present was searched, and I, like the others, had to
turn out the varied contents of my pockets. The sitters,
forming themselves into a circle round a plain deal table, were
next tied to one another. The right wrist of one person and
the left wrist of the sitter next him were tightly joined
together by means of a string, and so on all round the room,
until it was impossible for Mr. Reddalls, Mr. Russell, or any
one else to do anything with his hands without the person
next him being painfully aware of the fact. Each sitter was
further required to let his legs and feet touch those of the
person next him, so that any movement on their part might
also be detected. All this having been done, a unanimous
opinion was expressed that no other precaution could be
adopted against the practice of fraud. A general movement
among the sitters was necessary—so closely were they bound
together—before one of the company could reach the gas to
turn it out. That difficult operation having been performed,
however, Mr. Russell asked us to sing something as a means
of bringing those present into a state of harmony. Such
songs as ‘ Home, Sweet Home,’ ‘ Annie Lisle,’ * John Brown,’
‘Rule Britannia,’ and ‘Beautiful Star’ were sung at intervals.
“Hardlyhad the singing commenced when a small hand-bell,
previously lying on the table, began to jingle as it seemed to
be floating through the air, high over our heads. Several of
us—myself amongst the number—were struck about the shoul¬
ders, hands, and face, apparently by paper speaking-tubes,
which also occupied a place on the table at the time the light
was extinguished. Immediately afterwards, what felt—and
eventually was seen—to be an egg, was gently pressed into my
left hand. Another gentleman was equally fortunate. A
triangle was lifted from the table, and went floating about,
beating time to our singing, which, I must confess, was far
from first-class. The table seemed to be upset, falling heavily
on the floor; but when the gas was relighted, a few minutes
later, it was found that the table had in the meantime been
got on to its legs again. Having examined and explained
what had taken place as best we could, the circle was re-formed,
and once more we went to work, as before, in the dark. The
phenomena which followed turned out to be more wonderful
still.”—Birmingham Morning News,
The Marylebone Society of Spiritualists gave a pleasing
concert last Monday, in aid of its funds.
At the next soiree of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, Mr. Algernon Joy will preside, and Mrs. F. A. Nos-
worthy will give a reading.
Fatheb Ignatius is not a Spiritualist in the sense de¬
scribed in the Christian Spiritualist; he believes all Spiritual¬
ism to be a delusion wrought by evil spirits.
. On the last Thursday evening in March next, a paper
will be read before the members and friends of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, by the president,
Mr. Henry D. Jencken, M.R.I., F.R.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Mbs. Evebitt writes that she has received £1 Is. from
Mr. A. Calder, and £1 Is. from Mr. A. Thorn, contributions to
the fund to aid Mr. Wallace, the medium, which is all the
information on the subject which has been sent us for a fort¬
night or more by anybody.
Last Friday a private seance, through the mediumship
of Mr. Williams, was attended by Mr. Charles Blackburn and
friends. At another interesting private seance last Saturday
with Miss Showers, the same gentlemen were present, also
Mrs. Showdrs, Captain J. James, and Mr. James, junr.
A bazaae will shortly take place in. connection with the
British National Association of Spiritualists; full particulars
will be found in our advertising columns. As the value of ad¬
vertising in The Spiritualist, in order that the attention of a
superior body of readers may be gained is now more generally
recognised, interesting news in relation to Spiritualism may
often be found on examining the advertising pages carefully
every week.
Spibituaiism in Liveepool.—On Sunday last Mr.
George Farmer, late editor of the Pioneer of Progress, de¬
livered two lectures in the Islington Hall, afternoon and even¬
ing. The audiences were good, and the lecturer was listened
to with attention. His subject in the afternoon was “ Rela¬
tions between Ancient and Modern Spiritualism,” and in the
evening “ The Old Faith and the New: a Parallel and a Con¬
trast.” At the close a vote of thanks was given to the lecturer
by Mr. John Lament, on behalf of the audience. On the fol¬
lowing evening Mr. Farmer delivered an address at the Farn-
' worth-street Hall on “ Glimpses at the World’s Spiritualism,”
which was also well received.
Spibithalisii in Daiston.—There was a strong muster
of members at the ordinary weekly seance of the ‘‘Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,” on Thursday
evening last week. The circle was formed by the members
seating themselves round the front room, and Mr. R. Pomeroy
Tredwen was elected circle president, in the absence of the
president elect. It was arranged to first have a light test
seance, in accordance with directions obtained through the
mediumship of Mr. James Webster, at the previous week’s
sitting. When he was entranced, the medium gave short ad¬
dresses to the following persons in the order named:—Mrs.
Wood, Mr. Standen, Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thos. Blyton,
Mr. Tredwen, Miss Carrie Corner, Mr. Black, Miss Graham,
and Mr. Playfair; the remaining sitters were not dealt with in
consequence of the late hour. An exceptionally large propor¬
tion of the statements made through Mr. Webster by an Indian
spirit named “ Zoud,” were confirmed by those persons brought
in contact with the medium ; while the descriptions of various
spirits, known or related to several of the members, were so
accurate as to enable them readily to be recognised. In some
cases the controlling spirit gave evidence of his ability to
obtain information of a private nature affecting several
members, which afforded additional proof of the operating in¬
telligence, being other than that of the medium. To those
who recollect the earlier stages in the development of Mr.
Webster’s mediumship, it is very pleasing to note the great
improvement made by his several spirit guides in their present
mode of controlling his organism.
ANSWEE TO COBEESFONDENT.
E. M., Edinburgh.—The publication of your letter would stir up
personal dissensions of no interest to the public; the principles
at issue should be courteously stated, so as to cause no annoyance
to individuals.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Alien, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
Feb. 26, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRV0YANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Yernon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O..
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
6s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
ANNIE EYA FAY has the honour to announce that
she will resume her LIGHT and DARK SEANCES on Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday Evenings, at 8 o’clock, at her Residence, 21,
Princes-street, Hanover-square, W. She is also prepared to give seances at
the private residences of the nobility and gentry.
Annie eya fay’s extraordinary light
and DARK SEANCES. Tickets, 10s. each, may be had of Mrs. Fay,
21, Princes-street, Hanover-square; also at Mitchell’s, 33. Old Bond-street;
Ollivier, 38, Old Bond-street; Bubb, 167, New Bond-street; Lacon and
Olliver, 168, New Bond-street; and all agents.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. .Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
'ISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational speaker,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due courseWar wick-cottage, Old Ford-
ad, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By litters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each; hour
8 o'clock. For private seances, address as above.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK a»d SADLER, TRANCE and PHYSI¬
CAL MEDIUMS, are OPEN to ENGAGEMENTS in any part of
the Country, for Private or Public Seances. Terms, as per arrangements.
Seances (when at home), Wednesday, 2s. 6d.; Saturday, 5s. Address, No.
1a, Nelson-terrace, Cardiff.
Trance mediumshtp for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at | p.m.
J7\ parkes, spiritualist photographer.
JD o Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting, Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
"OHOTOGRAPHIC copies of the illuminated
JsL ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.'
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond. G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W,
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W«
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nos worthy, Mrs.F. a., Birmingham.
Noyes, T. Herbert, Jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A., M.D., LL.D., &e., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N- Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H.,'MA., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America. .
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U,S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epos Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veb, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsio
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.)
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST,
Ebb. 26, 1875,
• EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because ■withinthe last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., Gt. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Eev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D.' D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry JeHery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq..
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace,Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a- frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let kim tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
fo the letter you want, and spell us out a message 2 ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body. •
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms Of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER;
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED • IN 1869. -
HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Eobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St,
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Eev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. 0. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.E.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy -; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. 0.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Bichardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
IMPORTANT TO INVALIDS!!!
MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS BY LOOK OF HAIR!!!
R. AND MRS. E. H. GREEN, TRANCE SPEAKERS
AND CLAIEVOYANT PHYSICIANS.
For Medical Diagnosis send lock of Hair, well enclosed in oiled paper,
stating sex and age of patient. Prescriptions carefully compounded, under
spirit-controrof “Professor Hare" and the (Indian Chief “Blackhawk.”
Fee to accompany the Hair, 10s. 6d., by post office order on Brotherton
—Address, Marsh House, Brotherton. Ferry Bridge, Yorkshire.
NOBTHEEN DEPOT FOE THE SALE OF SPIEITUAL LITEEATUBE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Eeport at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BABKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
OATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year’s Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived, and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8Jd. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITBD BT GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian\Academy of Science, &c.
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Eeports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Beviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.O.
MISS ANNA BLACKWELL’S TRANSLATIONS OF THE
W'ORKS OF
ALLAN KARDEC.
In the Press, and will be shortly published;
1.—THE 8PIEITS’ BOOK. From the 120th thousand.
2.—THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK. From the 80th thousand.
Other Volumes in preparation.
London: Trubper and Co., 67 and 69, Ludgate-hill.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.C.
