AND- JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 161.—(Yol. VII.—No. 13.) LONDON: SEPTEMBER 24, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
(Contents*
M. Aksakof’s Approaching Visit to London  146
A Seance with a New Trance Medium:—The Mertiumship of Mr. Wal-
H4—Spirit Identity—How Spirits Control Mediums—Free-will—
A Prayer by a Spirit—Allegations of a Spirit relating to his own
Identity—The Spirits of Savages  146
El.Jah, a. Vision          149
Mrs. Tappan’s Departure for America  160
The Farewell to Mrs. Tappan at Liverpool  161
The Noncovforlnist on Spiiitualism    161
Correspondence Spiritualism in Germany and Switzerland—Novel
Recreations of the Learned—Allan (Hardee's Spirits' Book—Mrs.
Tappan’s Work in Liverpool—The Influence of Spectators upon
Mediums at Seances—Reichenbacli’s Magnetic Flames—‘Full and
. Faithful Reporting of Proceedings at Seances—The Alleged Ghost
at Hackney Wick  ... 161
Provincial News:—Newcastle Spiritual Society—Leicester, A Trance
Lecture on the Witch of Endor—Southport, The Resurrection,
and Life after Death  155
Witches’ Charm-Jugs... - ; ...   *.  156
Paragraphs:—Sunday Services at the Cavendish Rooms. 148; Spiiit-
ualism in Dalston, 149 ; Entertainment at the Cavendish Rooms,
149; A Jumping Spirit Baby, 149; A Seeing Medium, 150; Spiritist
Congress at Brussels  151
E”' AST LONDON^SPIRITLAL MEETINGS. — LECL
TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman's Lecture Rooms, 16, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end., Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
MR. COGMAN’S QUARTERLY TEA-MEETING will
take place at 15, St, Peter's-road, Mile-end-road, E., on Sunday,
Sept. 26th. Tea at five. Admission One chilling.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Foub ver Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to .
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY, .
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to L0 30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will be held in London, at 38, Great Russell-street, W.C., from the Zrd
to the bth of November.
General Pro&ramme.
Wednesday, November 3.—Opening Soiree—at the Cavendish Rooms, for
the benefit of Mr. Morse. Hours from 6.30 to 10.30.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Second
Session, 7.30.
Friday, November 5!—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects for Papers.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism as a Religious
'Influence.
3. Healing Med iumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
6. The unreliability of Spirit-eommunlcalions, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—its objects and
interests.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to be sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-slreet, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED;, 1883.
Has a very large stoch of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas,
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 3G, Rue de la Cathddrale, Liege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’6tudes psychologiques,
fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille. Pai is. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
PARTS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist m&y obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to be had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect .of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society,
Second Prize, £lo.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 88, Great Rusaell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
PIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and ojber observers in London, By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is,; post free Is. Id.—88, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackicell.
Price 7s. Od. Postage G£d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sepi?. 54, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS, (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S."W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilia,n-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-stre.et. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.G.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool. ■
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry 0.. M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-stract, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Ohinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road Blackheath, S.E. ,
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T.. 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W,
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isha.m, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey. Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-stteet, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool. '
Lovell, Alfred E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Mhaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Brvham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, O. T., M.R.O.S., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’g-pk. N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., Lp.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent. Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanaton-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Rtrawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. K., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood. Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-Square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A, LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H.. 1, The Elms, at. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Oarlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
• Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wircdjledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary'.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.CL
Resident Secretary.
Mias Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. •
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Cant>p
General de S.M.I. PEmpereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha, h Bahdje' Capoussou, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vsy, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma. Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris-
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammontou, Atlamic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A. *
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
Btreet, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clin ton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chauss&e St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUnion, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby. 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich. Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honord, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Griinhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57. Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Oowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square, W.O.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and curer patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient's residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational trance
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States^ on a lecturing tour.
He will return to England by the 20th October next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course.
"Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative [Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daifyj from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
Mrs. oliye, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays, at
7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m,, at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Previous
1 appointments should be made for private seances.
VOLUJVIE £EVEJ<. J^UJVIBEE THII^TEE^f,
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24th, 1878
Cfre Spntolxsf Jltlcrspapr.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whorh advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the flrstpost on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
" The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub¬
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lano, London, E.C.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. , .
" The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., which may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post-
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling.
BRITISH HATIOHAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS. '
The Brmish National Association of Spimtcalists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi¬
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C;, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN I860.
f"PHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
A Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
' The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, ahd
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F. R. S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science ” (Who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinioi) as to their causel; Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the N aturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.;
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxonj”: Mr.
James Wason ; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “ Life of Swedenborg ’’); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. 8. 0. Hall. F.S.A.; Mi1. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant [Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
M. AKSAKOF’S APPROACHING VISIT TO LONDON.
About the end of this month the arrival maybe ex¬
pected in London of one whom all British Spiritualists
will delight to honour—M. Alexandre Aksakof, Coun¬
cillor of State in the Chancellory of the Russian Em¬
pire, the intimate friend of the chief men of science in
Russia, and, what concerns us more nearly, the chief
patron and promoter of spiritual research and of
spiritual literature over the greater part of the European
continent. M. Aksakof sprang from a family which
has gained considerable distinction in the field of
literature, and from his earliest years he was imbued
with the love of study. He soon showed a predilection
for subjects of a religious and philosophical character.
The Science of Man—in which, unlike the anthropolo¬
gists, he included the study of the spirit as well as of
the body—appeared to him to he the science par excel¬
lence, and he resolved to devote himself to its*pursuit.
In order that he might go to work on true scientific
methods, he matriculated, in his twenty-third year, as
a student in the faculty of medicine at the University
of Moscow, where he attended the lectures on anatomy
and physiology, and also those on chemistry and
physics.
Previously to this, the works of Swedenborg had
attracted M. Aksakofs attention, and from these he
w’as led to the study of mesmerism, and subsequently
of Spiritualism. In 1860 he published a translation
in the Russian language of the Magneto-theurapie, by
the Comte de Szapary. He also translated Sweden¬
borg’s Heaven and Hell, a most laborious work, present¬
ing unusual difficulties to the Russian translator. On
account of the strictures of the state literary censor¬
ship, the hook could not appear at St. Petersburg, and
was published in 1863 at Leipzig, under the title.
Heaven, the World of Spirits, and Hell, as Seen and
Heard by Swedenborg. The preface contains a review
of modern Spiritualism from the pen of M. Aksakof,
in which he shows its relations to the revelations of
the great seer. The theology of Swedenborg, however,
did not satisfy the practical mind of the young student,
and believing that Spiritualism would furnish a basis
for a pure and simple religion, he set to work to trans¬
late the work of Dr. Hare, which he found himself
likewise obliged to issue in Leipzig, its publication in
Russia being forbidden.
Having laboured for several years single-handed in
the face of great difficulties, M. Aksakof at length
rejoiced to learn that another pioneer had been
toiling for years in Germany over the translation
of the writings of Andrew Jackson Davis, and
patiently awaiting the time when the material means
should be provided for giving them to the world. But
even after hearing of M. "Wittig, about three years
elapsed, in consequence of had postal arrangements,
before M. Aksakof was able to find him. M. Wittig
had, ten years before, commenced the translation of
The Or eat Harmonia, at the instigation of the cele-*
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
brated naturalist and philosopher, Nees von Esenheck,
president of the Royal Academy of Science at Breslau,
and had, at the time or his meeting with M. Aksakof,
completed the translation of ten of Davis’s works. With
all the ardour of newly-awakened hope, these noble
workers applied themselves conjointly to the fulfilment
of their unselfish task. M. Aksakof consented to
become the publisher of the works M. Wittig had
already translated, and M. Wittig at once took in hand
the translation of others which M. Aksakof thought it
desirable to publish. In this way was founded the
Bibliothelc des Spiritualismus fiir Deutschland (German
Spiritualist Library), which now comprises A. J. Davis’s
Nature's Divim lievelations, Magic Staff, Reformer
and Physician ; Dr. Hare’s Experimental Investigations ;
W. Crookes’s Spiritualism and Science, and Phenomena
of Spiritualism; Judge Edmond’s American SpiriU
Holism ; A. R. Wallace’s Scientific Aspect of the Super¬
natural, and Miracles and Modern Spiritualism ; the
Dialectical Society’s Report; and lastly, the works of
Robert Dale Owen. In addition to these important
steps, M. Aksakof has established in Germany a first-
class monthly journal, Psychische Studien (Psychic
Studies), which deals strictly with the phenomenal and
scientific side of Spiritualism, and which numbers
among its contributors many able and learned German1
writers, such as Professor Perty, Dr. Eranz Hoffmann,
Dr. Julius Erauenstadt, and others. The chief articles
in The Spiritualist newspaper are also regularly trans¬
lated and published in its pages. The attitude assumed
by Psychic Studies is exactly that best calculated to
arrest the attention of the hard-headed thinkers of the
new German materialistic school, whom its learned
editors are thoroughly capable of meeting on their own
ground ; and considering how deeply the thought of the
present day in England is influenced by that of Ger¬
many, it is not unlikely that Spiritualism as viewed by
the Germans may be reflected back on the mind of
England, and that the Germans will furnish us with a
philosophy for which we are now supplying them
with facts, unless we anticipate them.
By means of the German translations of Spiritualistic
works, M. Aksakof has had the satisfaction of seeing
them introduced into his native country, where they
have had a large circulation, the Russians being the
great linguists of Europe. Besides this, by his private
circles, M. Aksakof brought the subject before many
distinguished men. Dr. Vladimir Dahl, member of the
Academy of Science, and P. Yourkevitsch, Professor of
Philosophy at the University of St. Petersburg, were
among his earliest and most zealous converts. By
their instrumentality Spiritualistic writings were intro¬
duced into the University Library, and a lively interest
was awakened in the subject. In 1870 H. Aksakof
proposed to M. Butlerof, Professor of Chemistry at the
University, whose sister-in-law (M. Aksakof’s cousin) has
since become the second wife of Mr. Home, to form an expe¬
rimental circle. This was done, and twenty privateseajices
wrere held, the result of which was, that Professor But¬
lerof became convinced of the reality of the phenomena.
These were -succeeded by a course of seances with Mr.
D. D. Home, who visited St. Petersburg in 1871, and
in 1874, on the arrival of the medium Camille Bredif
from Paris, further experiments resulted in the adhesion
of M. Wagner, Professor of Zoology at the University,
who published a letter on Spiritualism in the Revue de
VEurope, which raised a storm in the intellectual world
of Russia, and was the cause of the appointment by
9
Sept. 24, 1875.
the St. Petersburg University> of the present Scientific
Committee for the investigation of the subject.
M. Aksakof comes to England in a few days’ time,
as the delegate of this Committee, with full powers to
negotiate on the most favourable terms with mediums
who may be willing to place their services for six
months at the disposal of the Scientific Committee.' He
will be accompanied by Professor Butlerof, who is like¬
wise entitled to our highest regard for the fearless
manner in which he has proclaimed and advocated, after
the example of our own Crookes and Wallace, truths so
unpalatable to the orthodox in science and religion.
The indomitable energy and perseverance of M.
Aksakof have thus resulted in the establishing of a
nucleus in Europe of a standard literature in connection
with Spiritualism. That a student residing in the far
North, unsupported by sympathetic fellow-workers, and
residing in a country where Spiritualism is a dead
letter, should have done so much for the cause in
Europe, is indeed a marvel. Occasionally the march of
civilisation and of scientific truth receives unexpected
support from Russian sources. We were present when
the international testimonial was given to Maury for
his researches on oceanic currents; at that time he was
obliged to quit the United States for political reasons,
but the Grand Duke Constantine was the first to
recognise his merits and to offer him a home and a
welcome at St. Petersburg. To the English mind the
very name of Russia conveys ideas of semi-barbarism
and of military despotism, wherefore it is all the more
pleasing to see keen appreciation of religious and
scientific truth coming from such an unexpected
quarter.
A SEANCE WITH A NEW TRANCE MEDIUM.
THE MEDICMSHIP 03T MR. WALLIS.
Last Thursday night a private seance took place at the house
of Mr. James Regan, SO^Finborough-road, West Brompton. The
medium was Mr. E. Walter Wallis, of 1, Adelaide-place’,
Twickenham, and the listeners present were Mr. and Mrs.
Regan; Mr. J. Cottrell, of Addison-place, Melbourne-square,
North Brixton; Mrs. Maltby, of 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftes-
bury-road, Hammersmith; and Mr. W. H. Harrison, of 38,
Great Russell-street, W.C. The last named attended in order to
record the proceedings on behalf of this journal.
In reply to questions, Mr. Wallis stated that he had been a
medium for three years. Ho first became acquainted with
Spiritualism on seeing Mrs. Bullock under control at Kingston as
a trance medium, soon after which the same power developed
in himself. He continued to sit at her seances with tolerable
regularity for two years. Since August last he had been hold¬
ing sittings once a week with Mr. and Mrs. Regan; he had never
yet spoken in public in the trance state, except upon one occar
sion in the Unitarian Chapel at Yeovil, which he was enabled tp
do in consequence of some of the authorities of that place of
worship being Spiritualists.
Last Tuesday night, as soon as Mr. Wallis passed into the trance
state, the communicating intelligence caused the medium to
make passes over his forehead with his hands; he also made a
few jocular remarks, informing the listeners at the same time
that ho was making preparations for the leader of the band of
spirits to come forward to control the medium and to address
tho company. It is often the case with trance mediums that a
jocular spirit controls them at tho beginning and at the end of
their seances, the reason usually given being, that after the brain
of the medium has been powerfully stimulated in consequence
of an outside power giving addresses through it full of close
reasoning, much of the strain upon the brain is removed by a
lighter spirit controlling at the close, so that the medium after
he wakes up is in a less worn-out state than would otherwise
have been the cage.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
The leader of the band of spirits then asked upon what sub¬
ject he should speak.
Mr. Harrison asked whether he would explain why so few
Sept. 24, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
147
spirits gave their names and addresses correctly, and so often
failed to establish conviction of their identity.
The Spirit then said—In our address to you last week we
considered this as well as other anomalies in Spiritualism, which
are more apparent than real, consequently all inquirers should
examine the facts most carefully ere they condemn. A great
stumbling-block to many is that they cannot obtain evidence of
the identity of the communicating spirits. With some inquirers
this is really the case, but with others it is not so. When we
first return to earth it is a question with us how we shall mani¬
fest, and what we shall do. Considering the great number of
spirits daily entering the spiritual world, considering also the
few channels open for their return, and that the applicants for
admission to the control of mediums are far more numerous
than can possibly be accommodated, one of the primary diffi- ■
culties of the case becomes clear. Again, the anxiety of
persons to receive tests from their own relations—an anxiety
amounting almost to a demand—places them in such a mentally
positive condition that it is almost impossible for the spirit to
give the tost. Among all the numerous mediums now being
developed, how many are there through whom communications
can be given independently of their own individuality ? Very
few indeed. They are not sufficiently lucid to enable spirits to
give tests of identity. These are among the impediments; but
perhaps the greatest of all are the conditions which have to be
complied with at seances both by spirits and mortals. These
conditions necessitate a degree of materiality in the communi¬
cating intelligence. It is not those spirits who have cast aside
nearly all that is of earth who can give the tests which you
Require. It is more often those who are in the lower states, and
have some strong link which holds them back, and keeps them
in your earth sphere. Many impostors are constantly passing
into the spirit-world, and when they arrive here they try to
deceive and to disgust you from our side. On earth the oppo¬
nents of Spiritualism are 'in the majority; consequently the
opponents of Spiritualism on this side of the grave are in a
great majority also, and they try to stop uS in our work, so it is
only through those mediums who are protected by strong
spirits, and who themselves have pure motives and desires, that
we can give you these tests. Then again, there is the unfitness
to return of some of those you wkffi to recall. It is not every spirit
who has the power to come back at your desire. You may
call, but they will not answer. Many spirits believe that there
is an impassable gulf between them and you, and that they
cannot return. Even when you think you are in communica¬
tion with your own relations, it may be only some tricky spirit
reading from your own mind, and giving what you desire to
receive; in such cases they can tell you nothing more than
you already know, and if they venture beyond that, you at once
detect them in untruths. Mediums like this one cannot readily
give you the names, dates, and facts necessary to prove the
identity of the controlling spirits. Many mediums have a fear
of being misled and of misleading others, and that very timidity
prevents the giving of the desired test. Again, it is easier to
impress the mind with general ideas than with numbers and
names. These are some of the difficulties which you will have
to solve, and which we on our side are striving to overcome.
Remember we have as miich opposition to contend with on our
side as you have on yours. We have never been able to make
this medium unconscious; he is not unconscious at the present
time, but is like a person in a dream listening to what we say.
When he first wakes up after the seance he will remember a
little we have said, and a few hours afterwards all that we have
said will return to his memory.*
HOW SPIRITS CONTROL MEDIUMS.
Mr. Harrison said—Will you please tell us how spirits control
trance mediums ?
The Spirit replied: “ Dear friend, I will give place to one
who can tell you better than I can, for I myself have only just
come to this medium. The number of the band of spirits about
him is fourteen, but the guide or familiar spirit is the one whom
you heard first, and he will return to answer your question.
The Spirit who had first spoken returned and said—Dear
friends, it is a long time now since you have heard mo speak
except at the close of your meetings, but the question which has
been put is so naturally related to myself that I gladly take this
opportunity of assuming my once familiar duty of answering
questions, which has since been chiefly done by one higher than
myself. It is a comprehensive question. When I passed from
earth life I did so with the inward determination to return to
* It is the same with Mrs. Earl Bird, of Brlxton, whose trance addresses
have often been reported in these pages. She remembers very little when
she first wakes up, but all the utterances come back to her a few hours
afterwards.—Ed.
communicate if I could, in order to complete the work I had
endeavoured to carry out on this earth. After I had been in the
spirit-world a great number of years I met one of those spirits
who had helped to begin this modern movement; the possibility
of communicating with mortals was debated by many of us, and
I said that I would raturn to earth and try to find a medium, in
order to give mortals the benefit of my experience on this 'side
of the grave. I met by chance—or at least apparently by chance,
for I do not believe in anything accidental—the grandmother of
this medium, who had had previous experience in controlling
the medium’s brothers and sisters. She, hearing that I was
searching for a medium, brought me to him and said, “ Hero is
my boy, whom I have watched and guarded up to the present
time ; I have other work in the spheres to do, and if you will
take care of him, and do your best to develope his powers
as a medium, I shall know that I have left him in good
hands, and shall enter upon my other work with satisfaction.”
She further said, “ Be gentle with him ; always act upon the
coronal organs of his head.” I had been a preacher in earth
life, and she knew that it was these organs I should most likely
try to manipulate. She continued: “You will have the aid of
Light-heart, and he will keep back from you the adverse
influences of those who are around; he will form a barrier
around you and the medium while you concentrate your atten¬
tion on his organism.” He is protecting the medium now while
I am speaking to you. If deceiving spirits come to a medium,
there must first be a bond of sympathy between the medium
and those who try to mislead: the desires of the medium may
not be pure; he may not aspire after religious or intellectual
truth; he may desire to make money. When this is the case,
there are no protectors powerful enough to save him from the
influence of spirits of a low order. As there is a strong bond
of love between Light-heart and the medium, he can by the
'exercisq of his will surround him with an aura which no
opposing influence can break through. We have known the
time when, by the laxity of the medium’s own mind, the link
has become so feeble that lower influences have been enabled
to gain some control. Light-heart does not fight opposing
spirits. He raises in a spiritual sense a wall of fire around the
medium. If you on earth raise a wall, it is a slow process ;
but we, by an effort of the will, can surround .the medium
with this wall of fire, which entirely repels all who would
enter the sacred area—it is a two-edged flaming sword, like
that which is said to have kept Adam and Eve from the Garden
of Eden, or like the enchanted circle of the ancient magi¬
cians, which none but the initiated could overstep. Having
surrounded the medium in this way, Light-heart has done
his work. Then it is my turn to step forward. When the
medium desires me to control him, I feel the need. It is some¬
what like a message transmitted along a wire, and the communi¬
cating agent is the spiritual influence of the mutual desire that
we shall work together for the one cause. I do not enter the
organism of the medium, but by exercising my will-power I
produce the state he is now in. This is done more especially by
the shutting of the eyes, which prevents observation, and tends
to induce a dreamy condition like that experienced by
those who sleep lightly. He has long wished us to make him
entirely unconscious, but there are certain peculiarities of con¬
stitution, such as the activity of his brain and nerves, and the
tendency of the blood to flow to the head, which prevents us
from doing so. I hope that at the end of a few years, when he
has done growing, that we may be able to throw him into an
unconscious state; then perhaps I may be able to give you some
of those tests of identity which he and you so much desire.
FREE-WILL.
The question of free-will enters largely into this matter. A
man may say: “ If I am under the control of a will-power
stronger than my own, does moral responsibility rest with
me any longer, or with tbe person who has made me subject to
his will ? ” There is in all nature a tendency to keep a balance,
and in an entirely balanced state man is in what is called
a rational condition; when the condition is set aside, man
becomes less responsible. Although he may he subjected to in¬
fluences, it depends very much upon the man himself of what
nature those influences shall be; if his desires are good, the
influences acting upon him will be good; but they will be
vicious if his own desires lead him downwards. How is it that
some persons are born with a predisposing tendency to vice ?
They are not well balanced when born. This brings us to the
root of the matter, and shows that man is, more than he thinks
for, a creature of circumstances. Let us take, for example,
the parable of the ten talents. The man well born and well
trained is the one with five talents, and the man physically
well born in addition has the ten talents. Those born in vice
148 ' THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 24, 1875.
have one talent, for there are germs of good in the most
degraded. A large portion of responsibility rests, then, with
parents; but not with them only, for some of those who went before
them exerted their influence in the matter. All these errors
may have been made in ignorance, through the progenitors not
knowing the injustice they were doing to those they were
bringing into the world. These truths show that the time must
come when all this ignorance shall be swept away from the
face of tho earth. Knowledge must be universal before man
can be raised from the animal position he is in at present, and
before you can have a good system of communication with the
spirit-world. It is our intention to explain these things to
men, and to open their eyes to spiritual truth, so that
they may perceive their errors and act accordingly ; then
better classes of spirits will enter the spirit-world, and
better spirits will return to you ; then you may also expect pure
communications. Such communications you will not have until
both men and spirits become more unfolded.
A PRAYER BY A SPIRIT.
The Spirit then uttered the following prayer : “ 0 Thou
spiritual Father, Thou whom we delight to approach and recog¬
nise as our Friend and Guide; Thou Infinite Spirit, who art in¬
comprehensible, help us to raise these Thy children above the
pains and trials of this material life, and to lead them to think
of the higher destiny of their souls, to aspire after the pure, the
good, and the holy. May we inspire them to have higher ideas
of Thoe. Man can but worship the highest ideal which he is
able to raise for himself, yet we all feel that there is a Great
Creator, a Great First Cause, that there must be a Father who
sustains and protects His children, and that in Him we live and
move and have our being. To Thee, 0 Thou Unknowable, we
bow in admiration and praise ! We thank Thoe for the light
of truth which has shone upon our minds, and We ask that we
may receive knowledge from the higher intelligences, that our
hearts may be fed as the flowers are fed, by the falling dews of
heaven. May we see that Thy hand governs all things. Wo
beseech Thee to send Thy high and holy messengers, that words-
of peace may be given, and all men know that they are Thy
children indeed. Good night.”
ALLEGATIONS OP A SPIRIT RELATING TO HIS OWN IDENTITY.
'The medium was here controlled by another spirit, who
made a few jocular remarks, greeted Mr. Regan as “ Old
fellow,” and said that he was the same who had communicated
on previous occasions, but had given no name except that he
called himself “ a gentleman.” He said:—I once told you a tale
about a boat excursion and how I was suddenly extinguished.
Those two young men who were with me that day are not here,
but they have left off some of their old pranks, because I told
them of what I had heard and seen. We had a sink when we
tipped the boat over. Let me see if I cannot locate the event.
I have while controlling the medium but a hazy recollection. It
was just about a mile or two from Shepperton, along the river.
There were with me two companions. I have all along told you
I was a gentleman; now I wall try to tell you my name. I lived
at Walton-on-Thames. My father—or “the guv’nor ” as I used
to term him—then went to London every day and returned at
night. The name of the house I lived in was—wait a minute.
I cannot get to impress it upon the mind of the medium yet,
He has got hold of a name he knows, and I cannot beat it out of
his head. “ Hollyburn Lodge ” he has got in his head, and I
want to stick another name there instead, but I cannot; so I will
see if I can write it.
Here slowly, with a trembling hand and with his eyes averted
from the paper, the name 11J. Travers, Branksome Lodge, Hill-
street, Walton,” was written.*
Mr. Harrison said: Will you please tell us something private-
which his parents do know, and other people do not know, to
prove his identity to them ?
The Spirit said that his parents would remember that he was
drowned as stated.
Mr. Harrison replied: Yes, and strangers may also know
that; but can you tell us something known to nobody besides
your parents ?
The Spirit: About a week or fortnight before I was drowned
I applied to the “guv’nor” for £100. That was a matter en¬
tirely between him and me. You may tell my friends I have
altered a great deal since I have been here. I am as happy as
* Some years ago, as recorded in the first volume of The Spiritualist,
when the spirits through Mr. Morse once specially desired to give a name
with accuracy, they wrote it in the same way as on the present occasion,
rather than run the ristc of error by passing-it through hisuips. They then
said that in so doing they had inflicted a great strain upon the nervous
system of the medium.—Ed.
I could expect to be after what I have done. I am sorry I did
not do better in earth-life, and more than all am I sorry for tho
trouble I caused my parents. I often pay them a visit, but
they are not aware of it.
Another spirit then took control of the medium with diffi¬
culty, and sighed painfully. The medium placed his loft hand
on his cbest, and exclaimed “ Oh!” as if in deep agony, and
seemed likely to fall; he fell back into his chair, then ex¬
claimed, “Lydia! Gome! come! come! Edward, dome tome,!
0 mother, mother, good-bye! I am going, I am going 1 Look !
look ! there is mother coming. Good-bye, mother! 0 Lydia,
come! ”
Next the medium was controlled by another spirit, who said
that the last one was the medium’s aunt, who had died lately,
but that the medium did not know the above particulars of the
death-scene, which the spirits desired should be written out and
taken home to his father to see if they were right; it was
Betsy Barber saying good-bye to her husband. Edward was the
medium’s father.
THE SPIRITS OF SAVAGES.
Next the medium was controlled by those who professed to
be the spirits of well-intentioned savages, who made him speak
in what appeared to be a real language with considerable fluency.
One of them, who had adopted the English name of Lightheart,
then gave some extemporaneous poetry through his lips ; tho
lines were faulty both in metre and in rhyme, although at
places the versification was good, and the style forcibly dramatic.
The poetical narrative set forth how Lightheart, while bending
his bow to shoot some game, was instantaneously killed by a wild
beast which leaped upon him from the branch of a tree. It
further narrated how his squaw afterwards found his bones, and
with reverent awe placed them with his weapons of the
chase, on poles high above the ground. He then chanted a
prayer in what he said was his native language, and afterwards
gave the following translation to the,listeners:—
O Thou Great Spirit listen to the black man’s cry.
0 Thou who sendest thine arrows,
And makest the clouds to thunder when Thou art angry,
O accept my offering.
. I bring Thee the flrst-fraits of the chase,
O be kind to me.
Look down upon me and give me good success.
I want to be more successful than Merassie,
' For Thou knowest that he is mine enemy.
I bring all these to Thee ;
If Thou art kind I will give Thee more.
Great Spirit, do not be angry.
There are those in our tribe who are sick—
Give Menassie strength to heal them.
The spirit added: That’s how I used to pray, but I will show
you how I pray now.
O Thou Great Spirit,
Pour down the blessings of Thy strength and life;
Let them be as seeds planted in the hearts of Thy children,
And may they refresh them.
O may the seeds grow up to fine trees ;
May they burst into blossoms of life
And bring forth the fruits of good deeds.
This ended the seance.
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—On Sunday
last Dr. Sexton delivered two discourses in the Cavendish
Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, the one in the morning
on “ Christian Ethics,” and that in the evening on the “ Rela¬
tion of Man to the Lower Animals.” The latter was the third
of the series of four discourses on the “ Origin of Man.” In the
morning there was a good attendance, and in the evening the
room was so well filled that a number of extra seats had to bo
brought in ; in fact, the number of persons attending these ser¬
vices has gone on increasing week by week. The evening dis¬
course consisted of a somewhat lengthy and elaborate statement
of the differences and points of resemblance between man and
the anthropoid apes, so far as their physical structure is con¬
cerned, and an analysis of the mental and moral powers of both.
Dr. Sexton, while admitting the full force of the facts quoted
by Mr. Darwin and his followers in support of the theory of
natural selection, maintained that neither it nor any other
system of evolution would account for tho origin of man. When
the speaker sat down there was a spontaneous burst of applause,
which was immediately checked. On Sunday next Dr. Sexton
will deliver the last of the present series of discourses, taking
for his subject in the evening “Primeval Man—Was he a
Savage or a Civilised Being?” In the morning the subject
will be “ The Influence of Christ’s Teaching on the World.”
The services commence at eleven in the morning, and at seven
in the eyening.
Sept. 24, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. • 149
EL-JAH, A VISION.
The following is another quotation from the’ curious commu¬
nication, given with great velocity through the writing medium-
ship of a gentleman during a thunderstorm. The whole message
is of a symbolical nature
Cecilia—This weary night has passed; my troublous dream
is over. I’ll put on my mantle and away to the mouth of the
cave, and watch for the Aurora, peradventure Jehovah will
cause His face to shine, and I may hear His voice.
How sweet this peace ! the Tempest’s roar is silenced.
How balmy this atmosphere ! the Fire has purified it.
How firm the Rock! the earthquake has not displaced it.
But why am I here ? What am I here for ? And whither shall
I go ?
How dreadful has been this place! and now all, all is changed.
How calm, how placid, how serenely beautiful! and yet Jehovah
is not here; I heard not His voice in the roar of the Tempest, I felt
Him not in the quake of the Earth, I witnessed not His Form in
the Fire. I will arise and go to my Father; the scenes of Beth-'
abara will never pass from my memory; but I will tune my
harp, and will sing and make melody, for the darkness is
passing, and I just see the first dart of the Aurora which lightens
up this majestic scene. But what is that I see in the distance.?
It comes on the wings of the wind, and swifter than the light¬
ning’s fork which rent the rocks around my dwelling-place.
I hear the still small voice; ’tis music in my ears : a new life
runs coursing through my veins.
But lo ! I see a Form. How changed! but still ’tis He! As
a horseman he comes, for I see Him in a glorious chariot.
Faithful—Hail, Cecilia! my beautiful steeds were prancing,
for they heard the roar and saw the blaze, and at the appear¬
ance of the first streak of dawn they darted off, and I am here.
But what doest thou here, Cecilia ?
Cecilia—Do I still dream ? it cannot be !
Did not you, Cecil—but you are changed, and thou art the
Faithful who put me in this cleft. ’Twas thy hand which
guided me up this steep from yonder valleys below, and thy'
arm it sustained me up the mountain side, and did you not
promise to come at the dawn of the morning ?
Faithful—Ah, I see ! the mantle has dropped from your face,
and you see, Faithful is He that promised, and faithfully will
He perform. Call to remembrance the promise that Cecil made
that a chariot awaited thee at the seventh stage ; join thyself
now to the chariot, for a journey is before us. This is Beth-
abara, the house of passage ; we now take our course to Bethel,
the house of God. Without this chariot, and without the horses
thereof, we could not go; but the toil is over, thy warfare is
accomplished, and in the region where we shall go the valleys
are made low, the mountains are brought low, the crooked is
made straight, and the rough places smooth.- Come, we must
away, for these horses and this chariot go with the sun! In
this thou shalt rest from thy labours.
Cecilia—How delightful, Faithful! This motion invigorates
my frame. How glorious the air ! how beautiful the prospect!
and the-chariot and the horses, what beautiful creatures ! To
your voice they give instant heed; how docile they are! But
will you speak the word, and let us tarry a moment while we
view the scene below ? How strange I the creatures heard
my voice, and, lo, they have anticipated my very wish and
desire!
Faithful—The power of will is strong, and they have the
hearing ear and the seeing eye, for Thunder and Lightning are
their names; and when the affection speaks they know the
voice and are obedient. While we tarry, look down, and say,
what seest thou ?
Cecilia—I see the Children of Israel in the valleys. Are
they spread forth as gardens by the river sides as the almond
trees and the cedar trees which Jehovah hath planted? How
goodly are thy tents, 0 Jacob, and thy tabernacles, 0 Israel!
0 beautiful star ! coming out of Jacob—0 glorious sceptre
rising out of Israel. All shall live, for God doeth this. But,
Faithful, I am speaking with other tongues. Whence came the
change ?
Faithful—Did I not say thou should see the King in his
beauty, and-behold the land that is afar off. The star of Jacob
will unfold into a glorious sun, and that is the rising of the
sceptre of the King, for He shall reign from the rivers to the
ends of the earth. Speed your flight, my trusty steeds, and
bear us away.
Cecilia—-But where will they take us, Faithful ? and what
when we arrive there ?
Faithful—Have you forgotten so soon, Cecilia ? Said I not
that we were to go to the city of the Sun, for there is Bethel;
it is the House of God, and is built on Mount Zion; the city
lieth four square ; its length and breadth and height are equal
to each other. You have been initiated into the sacred order of
Melchizedek, and in that city you must receive a name which
none know but to whom it is given. I know not as yet what
that name shall be ; but when the name is given, then your eyes
will be opened, and my ears will bo unstopped, and the mystery
of life unsealed.
Cecilia—When in the cleft of the rock, Faithful, I saw in the
night there visions, and, behold, one, like a Son of Man, came
to me, and the Ancient of Days appeared, and I stood before
Him, and to Him was given dominion and glory and kingdom,
but my spirit was grieved in my body, and the vision troubled
me sore.
Faithful—I will tell thee the vision and the interpretation
thereof, for wisdom is given me to unfold the truth. The
Ancient of Days is the angel of the earth, and the forms that
appeared before you are his dynasties, and in each dynasty life
appears in different forms. The four forms which you saw
are His four kingdoms, and this is. the fourth. But a new
dynasty is coming, and this shall continue and never be de¬
stroyed or pass away ; for the fifth dynasty is the culmination,
and life shall be ultimated in new forms all glorious and all
beautiful. Remember the kingdoms are but one, for the ancient
Angel is King over all the earth; His name is one, and the
Logos is His appearing, and he who sees Him sees the King in
His beauty. •
But look, I see the cloud is falling, and the glory of the
Highest overshadows thee. We have now entered within the
gates into the city, and I leave thee at the citadel. I go my
way, but will come again, and at the call of the Master, ‘‘Follow
thou me,” obey the voice, for once more we must descend to
the earth before the final summons is given—“ Come up higher.”
Here is the token. I give thee a white stone ; when the cloud
rises it will reflect the light of the sun ; then know that
“ Wisdom ” waiteth for thee. Adieu!
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Mr. F. M. Parkes will read a
paper upon “ Spirit Photography and Experiments Relating
Thereto,” at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, on Tuesday evening
next; the proceedings will commence at eight o’clock.
Entertainment at the Cavendish Rooms.—The friends and
supporters of Dr. Sexton’s Sunday services have arranged a
musical and elocutionary entertainment on behalf of the “ Organ
Fund,” which will take place on Wednesday next, at eight
o’clock. ■ An attractive programme has been drawn up, in which
are the names of a number of artistes well known to Spirit¬
ualists ; there are also others, who, although less known in the
Spiritual ranks, are well known to the general public. The
evening will be devoted to singing, reciting, etc., the only de¬
parture from this being the “ plate spinning ” of Mr. George
Sexton, jun., a la Maskelyne.
A Jumping- Spirit Baby.—The inhabitants of Reading,
Pennsylvania, have lately been much awed by a mysterious
occurrence. It was noised abroad that people had heard the
cries of a child for the past eight or ten days near the public
road, and a party crossing- the mountain saw a child near the
top of a large tree in a basket. The cries were described as
heartrending, and were heard by all passers by. At last a
party stopped to explore, and the locality of. the baby was
distinctly made out, a lady having, been the first to notice it
seated in a small basket that swung back and forth uttering faint
cries. The distance to the first limb of the tree was some
twenty feet, and nobody in the party was able to climb it.
While discussing how the child could be reached it gave a scream,
and simultaneously the basket fell half-way down the tree.
This caused the ladies to scream in turn, and made every one
in the party tremble,, when lo and behold ! back went the
basket to its original position. This completed the terror of'the
party, but they stood watching, and saw the baby aloft for five
minutes afterwards, when all at once basket and baby both
vanished. One gentleman ventured to remark that this was
child’s play, but the rest did not see it in that light, and great
efforts have been made to unravel the mystery, hitherto, so far
as we have heard, without success. Can it be that we have
here signalled a new departure for Spiritualism ? What if the
baby be the earthly offspring of some mysterious visitant from
upper air, and compelled by the necessities of its existence to
hover thus, ’twixt earth and sky. The American necromancing
fraternity should lo'se no time in getting at the bottom of the
affair. Mr. Jacob S. Peters and many others vouch for the
existence of *the phenomenon. They should set the mediums to
work to find out what it means.—Examiner,
150
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MRS. TAPPAN'S DEPARTURE FOR AMERICA. ' -
Mas. Tappan’s early departure for the United States
made it impossible for Mr. Coleman to complete in time
for presentation to her the beautiful illuminated address,
but at a meeting which took place at the Queen’s
Hotel, Southport, when a small but faithful band of
representative Spiritualists assembled to hear her parting
words, a copy of her address, accompanied by some
useful souvenirs, was presented to her. These little
marks of remembrance consisted of an exceedingly
handsome travelling cloak, a gold chain, a locket
ornamented with a forget-me-not, a handsome silver
sandwich-case, and a photographic album. The words,
“ Presented to Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, by her friends
in England, 1875,” were engraved on the locket, sand¬
wich-case, and album'.
The delay in preparing the illuminated address, which
in itself will be a work of art, will give time to make
the testimonial a more substantial one than was at first
contemplated, and in the hope that everybody will aid
in this work we desire that -contributions to the pre¬
sentation fund may be sent to Mr. B. Coleman, 1,
Bernard Villas, Upper Norwood, London, S.E. The
illuminated address will be on public view at the offices
of the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great
Bussell-street, before it is forwarded to the United
States, whither it will follow Mrs. Tappan. It is ex¬
pected to be thus on view by Monday next.
Mr. Coleman has received the following letter from
Mr. Calder on the subject:—
1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
20th Sept., 1875.
Dear Mr. Coleman,—I rejoice to see that you have joined a
committee for raising contributions, in order to present Mrs.
Tappan with a testimonial. I feel convinced you will let me say
that I think it should take a more substantial shape than
appears to be contemplated.
A man recently swam across the channel, and speedily the
sum of £1,000 was raised for him ; and yet he did but the work
of a fish. Search the world through, where is the woman who
has done so much as Mrs. Tappanfor our spiritual nature? She
has wrought like an angel amongst us ; and shall we not have
some regard for her physical necessities ? Let us not, then, let
her return home empty handed.
I enclose a cheque for £10, and sincerely hope some will give
a great deal more. Spiritualists of all others should not hesitate,
but learn to bestow on suitable occasions, for they are aided in
a marvellous manner by the invisible world.—Yours truly,
Benjamin Coleman, Esq. Alex. Calder.
Last Tuesday afternoon at three o’clock, a deputation
waited upon Mrs. Tappan at the Queen’s Hotel, South-
port, to present her with the articles already mentioned.
Mr. Martheae was among the friends present. In the
, afternoon Mrs. Tappan delivered an address in the
public room of the same hotel, and last Wednesday
morning she set sail for New York, accompanied by
Mr. and Mrs. G. B. Hinde, late of Darlington, who
are about to settle permanently in California.
From a telegram sent to us from Southpprt on Wed¬
nesday, by Mr. Marthcze, we learn that about twenty
friends were in attendance when the farewell address
was presented to Mrs. Tappan at the Queen’s Hotel.
Dr. Hitchman presided; Mr. G. Thompson, formerly
Member of Parliament for the Tower Hamlets, the great
anti-slavery advocate and anti-corn-law agitator of
bygone political times, was present, and spoke on the
occasion. During occasional visits to America he in¬
vestigated the phenomena of Spiritualism, and he spoke
on the subject when the address was presented to Mrs.
Tappan. A lette from his daughter, Mrs. Nosworthy,
Sept. 24, 1875.
on the work. performed by Mrs. Tappan in Liverpool,
appears in another column of this number of The
Spiritualist.
THE FAREWELL TO MRS. TAPPAN AT LIVERPOOL.
(By Electric Telegraph.)
From our own Correspondent.
Liverpool, Wednesday Night.
At three p.m. the steamship England steamed slowly down
the river Mersey amidst fog and rain, outward bound for New
York. Amongst the passengers wore Mr. and Mrs. G. R,
Hinde, of Darlington, who accompany Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan
to her destination.
I called upon her this morning at Mrs. Nosworthy’s, in Liver¬
pool, and regret to state that I found Mrs. Tappan thoroughly
prostrated after her exertions.at Queen’s Hotel, Southport,
yesterday, when the address to her was read by Mr. J. Lamont,
and the gifts presented by Mr. Geo_. Thompson, who said he
was sad because they would see her no more in the
body for a long time to'come. In her they had an extraordinary
teacher and philanthropist, and he was surprised at the strange
want of interest that scientific men took in a spectacle like that
presented by her orations, as well as in the sublime philosophy
and beautiful discourses the public had been privileged to hear.
He joined in good wishes regarding her.
At night a crowded and fashionable audience listened with
marked attention to an address “ On the Origin and Destiny of
the Human Soul,” delivered by the spirit-guides of the medium.
To-day a concourse of friends met Mrs. Tappan at the landing
stage,. and amongst those who accompanied her to the ship were
Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Webster Glynes, Mr. Geo. Thompson, Mr.
John Lamont, Mr. John Priest, and Mr. J. Coates, who parted
from her with waving handkerchiefs and dimmed eyes.
Mr. Olive writes : “ Mrs. Olive’s seances will be resumed on
Monday next.”
Mr. D. D. Home is expected to arrive in London in a day
or two.
A reception will be given to M. Aksakof and Professor
Butlerof by the National Association of Spiritualists, at 38,
Great Russell-street, as soon as possible after their arrival.
Friends will be informed of the date, when fixed, by advertise¬
ment in The Spiritualist, and by letter.
It is pleasing to see that healing mediumship is becoming
more and more cultivated, for nothing is better calculated to do
good to the world and to advance, the cause of Spiritualism.
Mrs. Bullock has opened a Psychopathic Institute for the cure
of disease at 19, Church-street, Upper-street, Islington, not far
from Islington Church.
A Seeing Medium.—A few evenings ago, Mrs. Prichard,.of
10, Devonshiro-street, Queen’s-square, W.C., gave a private
seance at the offices of the National Association of Spiritualists.
She stated that a year or two ago Miss Hudson, a clairvoyant,
told her she would be a seeing medium, but she did not believe
it. Afterwards she began to see spirits, some of them having
neai’ly the ordinary size and appearance of human beings, others
of a smaller size, only an inch or two high. She once inquired
the meaning of this phenomenon at a public meeting at which a
trance speaker had invited questions from the audience, but
could get no satisfactory information. She also went to a
private trance medium, who told her that it was not medium-
ship at all, but some mental disorder. The most satisfactory
information she could get about it was that the spirits were
trying to develope two kinds of clairvoyance in her at the same
time, but as yet were unable to separate the two descriptions of
spiritual vision. They told her that the small figures she saw
were the spirits of persons who had departed this life ages ago,
whilst those of natural size had departed quite recently. She
had further been informed that as her mediumship became more
developed these two kinds of sight would be separated and made
useful, and all the present confusion abolished. On some few
occasions she had given information to sitters at seances which
had convinced them that she was able to see their departed
relatives, but such tests as these had not been frequent.
Sept. 24, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
THE «NONCONFORMIST ” ON SPIRITUALISM.
The Nonconformist last week published a long and
fair article about Spiritualism and its phenomena,
giving long extracts from the books of Messrs. Wal¬
lace and Crookes. The writer remarks :—
It is just because the general attitude of the scientific mind
towards Spiritualism has been that of a clown, rather than that
of a philosopher, that we know so little of the meaning of these
mysterious and capricious phenomena. Nay more, those few
brave men who, combining an unsullied reputation with the
resources of scientific knowledge and. the vigilance of trained
observers, have ventured to grapple with Spiritualism in the
true spirit of the scientific explorer, unbiassed by the prej udices
of theory and unhindered by the contumely of the vulgar—
these men have had their patient unpaid toil requited them by
the ridicule of the public press, and by the contempt of their
fellow-labourers in the field of nature.
The following is the conclusion of the article :—
Imperfectly, but honestly, we have now placed some of the
phenomena of Spiritualism before our readers. The subject
demands fuller and abler treatment than we have given it, but
already we must apologise for having transgressed the proper
limits of a newspaper article. * Summing up the evidence, we
find that Spiritualism undoubtedly presents new and wonderful
facts, which must sooner or later compel the attention of
thoughtful men. Viewed in the “dry and pure light of science,”
we see in these strange phenomena the counterpart of the
mystery of our conscious life. 'For metaphysicians and
physiologists alike admit that there is that within us which
baffles inquiry, and will ever baffle it. The realm of conscious¬
ness is the region of the unknowable ; and this region consti¬
tutes a real existence distinct from our material body. Mr.
Herbert Spencer, for' example, remarks :—“ The thoughts, and
feelings which constitute a consciousness form an existence
that has no place among the existences with which the
rest of the sciences deal.” Inasmuch, then, as we know of
matter plus a closely associated consciousness, and of matter
minus this consciousness, is it altogether unreasonable to
suppose that the phenomena of Spiritualism may present the
other antithesis—of consciousness minus closely associated
matter? It is true we cannot comprehend this, but we
cannot comprehend the existing nexus between our con¬
sciousness and the world outside ourselves. An eminent
authority, the late Dr. Mayo, professor of physiology and
anatomy in King’s College and in the Royal College of
Surgeons, has remarked, “ It is conceivable, on the assumption
of mind being a separate principle from matter, that the
human soul may be capable of retaining its union with the body
in a new, unusual, and abnormal relation.” If, on the other
hand, Spiritualism be only a phase of ordinary mental action,
“my.marvel is,” as Judge Edmonds remarks, “that men of
science, instead of acting as they do like scared children, do not
look into the matter like men of sense, and find out what it is
that thus strangely affects all classes.” The apathy of scientific
men towards these phenomena may partly arise from the fact
that Spiritualism presents a region of such disorderly mystery
that every attempt to find a clue seems hopeless, for the phe¬
nomena cannot at pleasure bo submitted to cross-examination.
We venture to think natural science will never probe the mys¬
tery with the aid of its present resources. Speaking for our¬
selves, we are grateful for the objective proof Spiritualism offers
of facts of transcendent importance ; for, upon any hypothesis,
the facts, if admitted—and every patient inquirer has more or
less admitted them—must inevitably destroy the hard-and-fast
lines of materialism, stirring the potent conviction that “ there
is a spiritual body.”,
Spikitist Congress at Brussels.—The meeting of delegates
from the various Belgian Spiritual societies convened by the
Union Spirits of Brussels, with a view to forming a large
national confederation on the model of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, will open at ten o’clock to-morrow
at the rooms of the Union, 4, Place du Palais .de Justice, and
the sessions will extend over two days. The principal subjects
for discussion are the effects and modes of action of mesmerism
and somnambulism, and their curative influence; the various
manifestations of Spiritualism, and its social importance; the
means of co-operation and propagandi§m.
* Those who wish to pursue the matter further may be glad to know
that there is a Spiritualistic Association at 33, Great Bussell-street, W.C.,
where information is most courteously given to inquirers.
(Korressponnencc.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY AND SWITZERLAND.
Sir,—If I extend, quite against my original intention, my
usual annual account to another letter, it may be excused, and
taken as a proof that I somewhat underrated this time the real
state of progress here. I find the evidences of advance in¬
creasing in number the more I inquire. One remarkable sign
of increasing activity I overlooked in my first letter. I came
here with the firm resolution to avoid the topic of Spiritualism,
and to devote myself solely to bodily recreation in this grand,
beautiful part of Switzerland. The subject, however, came up
from quite a different quarter, and the presence of friends from
Manchester prevented me from preserving my incognito. Like
lightning the whole of the overfilled hotel seemed to be in some
degree infected with the discussion, whereas a few years ago
the subject of Spiritualism would have dropped after a short
conversation in the corner, if it dared to raise its voice at all.
The excitement resulted, in spite of my opposition, in the hold¬
ing of a seance, and some indications of power surprised even
me, under the unfavourable circumstances. A second sitting,
however, spoiled all, for no private room could be had, and con¬
stant disturbances frustrated every attempt until some very
faint movements of the table terminated a tiresome sitting.
There are many people, I am sorry to say, who believe that
when anything is shot at it must be hit too, so the other day a
gentleman with most serious emphasis said, “ Did you read the
frightful attack on Wallace in the newspaper ? ”—Augsburger, I
believe. I shall be frightened next if a boy shoots with a pop¬
gun at the moon.
After thus having seen encouraging signs of increased
activity, I feel an irresistible impulse to glance at the past, and
try to show that the present antagonism may be viewed in the
light of the natural reaction from lively interest and even
enthusiasm. I feel ashamed to confess that I once did much
mischief by ridiculing the phenomena in the most dangerous
form—that of caricature. If I may be allowed to reveal my
former experiences, I trust that, if they fail to interest and
instruct, they may nevertheless amuse your readers—a little
change of emotion not at all out of place in our serious work.
It was about 1852 when I first witnessed table-turning at a
house in Bonn, and the exceptional success convinced me at
once that there was truth in it. The idea flashed through my
head that the former so-called miracles, crushed down under
the feet of advancing science, sent their thread again, lifted by
a breeze, into the air, flying about until watchful hands should
take it up again and protect it against further interference.
My enthusiasm was soon seconded by the publication of a small
pamphlet—Table-moving and Spirit-rapping a Fact—by Dr.
Schauenburg, then also residing at Bonn.
At the same time the comical aspect began to tell on my
imagination, and being a very active contributor to the Dussel-
dorf Monthly—for fun and caricatures—I willingly accepted the
order to help in filling up a whole number with this subject.
One of my chief illustrations represented an excited investigator
who, coming home at midnight from a seance, tried his power on
a boot-jack in his bedroom. The noise produced caused an old
tenant who slept beneath to knock with his cane on the ceiling
to give warning, and these very audible “ spirit raps ” terrified
our investigator! Curiously enough the pamphlet and my
caricatures went on the same day to the press and appeared
together ; they created no small sensation. A friend of mine,
Dr. Schmidt, the astronomer (now the celebrated Director of the
Observatory at Athens), also took a lively interest in these
experiments, and, to avoid the increasing pressure of annoying
inquiries, wrote humorously over the door of his study—“ On
the subject of table-turning to be consulted only between 12 and
1 o’clock.” Dr. Schauenburg, the now much attacked author
(for rumours about A. v. Humboldt’s scepticism got afloat), in¬
vited me to a sitting under very severe test conditions. On this
occasion I proposed to put a layer of olive oil on the surface of
the table to prevent the sticking of the warm fingers to the
polish. It would not move. We wore sadly surprised indeed.
I now find I had hit upon a similar test to that of Faraday to
break the movement caused by muscular action. It was a
damper on our minds, and we looked at the little bottle of oil
with painful feelings. Dr. Schmidt, who was in correspondence
with Humboldt, sent him my caricatures. When my friend read
to me Humboldt’s answer, “ I had a hearty laugh at these
pictures,” I felt proud to excess, and stood erect in my glory like
a stick; but when he continued—“ and they are the best prac¬
tical explanations of the nonsense,” alas, I snapped back like a
152
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 24, 1875.
pocket-knife ! Humboldt, the Pope of science, soon thundered
his verdict against the farce with the additional sarcastic remark,
“ I cannot believe in the f spiritualisation ’ of a piece of wood ! ”
Faraday’s condemnation completed the defeat, and for a long
time silence followed, • the minor giants in the scientific world
first putting in their share of abuse. I tried hard to reconvert
myself, but could succeed only temporarily, but eagerly read any
book on the subject which appeared. I remember being attracted
by a pamphlet where the author explained tho automatic writing,
etc., by the secret action of the very essence of what ho termed
“ life force or vitalism,” and he would therefore name it vitalistic
writing. If we suppose that the author was struggling between
the acceptance of an intelligent force from without or from within
the human organism, and replace his adopted term by “ psychic
force,” the theory of Serjeant Cox may lose its claim to novelty.
Some years later I came across a most remarkable psycho¬
logical essay by a medical student (I hope to find tho names of
both authors some day)' who devoted his researches to the
somnambulistic phenomena. His chief point was the proposition,
that all impressions received in the normal state are stored up
in the memory, which fixes them as upon a photographic plate,
and these are brought to light again occasionally, particularly
in the somnambulistic sleep, hence the startling utterances which
seem entirely disconnected with the person thus influenced. By
untiring perseverance in tracing back the past life of such
individuals he pretends to have succeeded in finding the origin
of the same fact or sentence, even when many years intervened.
In one case, however, he nearly gave up in despair all attempts
to solve the riddle. An old servant girl spoke something in
Hebrew, while in the abnormal sleep, and all his inquiries as to
where she might have picked it up proved fruitless. At last,
however, came a letter from her old schoolmaster at home,
who stated that soon after she left school she served as hand¬
maid at a Jewish family, but left after three days. His resumed
inquiries resulted in the statement that this girl was present at
dinner where the prayer consisted of exactly the same words as
those taken down by the investigator—a remarkable instance
indeed, considering the lapse of twenty years and the perfect
ignorance, of course, of the language. Here it seems the theory
of unconscious cerebration is distinctly indicated, so Carpenter
has baptised only a full-grown child, which has visited other
silently working philosophers in their cells.
Experiments with the original planchette, the psycho-graph,
were frequently recorded, especially from Berlin, where a Mr.
Hornung studied the thing practically for many years. Total
want of experience, however, in developing medial power re¬
tarded progress. Thus, dependent only on chance and the con¬
stant abuse of newspapers, the growing plant was trampled
♦upon ; they failed, however, to strike the root. Perceiving the
slow but sure progress, they furiously seized every report
of open imposture, and recently a largely-circulated popular
weekly, the Gartenlaube, dashed hungrily upon the Paris
scandal, to secure the applause of the ignorant, because of its
own ignorance. The little ship, under the flag of Psychische
Studien, with Aksakof as captain, steers gallantly through the
tempest, and if it succeeds in getting some more hard facts of
its own as so many guns, the attacks of pirates will not interfere
with its voyage.
To return to my own path as a temporary sceptic. As such,
settling in England, I went to a seance at the Marshalls’, after
reading in All the Year Round Charles Dickens’s rather sar¬
castic report. I fancied my prejudice confirmed, but resolved
to join & private circle there the next day.
I found a lady already engaged in going over the alphabet on
paper to pick up the “ raps,” the husband sitting behind with an
expression of face not at all showing confidence in the proceed¬
ings. . I fancied that tho medium cunningly watched the eyes
of the excited lady, to “ let off ” the raps at the proper point, and
I suggested the “ kind spirits ” should allow the pencil to glide
over the letters to my beat of time. The raps stopped altogether!
The gentleman now stepped forward, and after a few words in
German, we agreed that it might be humbug. He paid the fee,
took his lady, and off we went, I to the next coffee-house, where
I crossed my legs and had a whiff of my Havana, and felt quite
overcome under the weight- of my awful cleverness. I carried
off and enjoyed my triumph fora considerable time, until at last
at Herne and Williams’s it was smashed to pieces. Since then
I had to give in, and what followed is known sufficiently to let
me close my confession here. But reviewing once more the
progress of Spiritualism in Germany, there seemed as much life
and interest formerly as now exists in England; and here I may
introduce my impression of the whole position. When a new
revelation or light dawns upon mankind, which finds response
by instinct in every individual, all authorities are set at nought—
no master-mind is powerful enough t6 stop its course—for a
time. Then they look up to the giants of science, who, like
high mountains, should receive tho light first. So they would
but for the clouds which generally surround their tops, and so
it comes to pass, that the first ray kisses gently the chimney of a
poor labourer's cottage before it sets in a glare the proud mountain!
Although I made up my mind to break my rather too great
activity in our cause for. a while by perfect rest, I must at least
have my weekly papers, and one fine morning when I started to
ascend the splendid Piz of Languard, 10,000 feet high, of which
lovely Potresina marks the bettor half, my reflections occasion¬
ally dwelt on the questions of vegetarianism and teetotalism, again
brought to view in a recent number. I delighted in the idea of
dispensing altogether with.artificial stimulants, and to keep body
and soul “ a-going ” by the most simple means from without and
healthy philosophy from within. Getting higher and higher
under the burning sun, the beauty of the next spring of pure
water with a piece of bread began to fascinate my imagination
and thirsty tongue, but oddly enough, I unconsciously protected
most carefully the half-bottle of claret from the chance of
getting in contact with sharp corners in the rocks, the solid
piece of cold roast beef being safe enough in its paper. Oh,
how delightful, after several thousand feet of climbing was the
pure, crystal lake water, with a dry piece of bread ! But now
came the last part, the cone, a Severe test for strength, feet, and
even brain. Now and then a stone would roll off from under
the feet, and its dying sound as it dashed towards the deep filled
the heart with gratitude that it politely gave way to me on the
narrow road, as being more fit for such a journey than a human
being. After more and more struggling, interrupted frequently
by a pause for collecting breath, or a doubt whether the end
•would be reached at all, I found myself at the top, and such a
glorious view ! all fatigue completely forgotten ! a very ocean
of mighty peaks. I imagined that I saw the foaming monster
waves, after having done their work of destruction in the
deluge, furiously dashing against tho sky itself, when the voice
of the Lord thundered “ Silence!” and, petrified, they remained
giant witnesses of the ruling power of the Almighty. Looking
round and round to discover a straight line as a rest for the eye,
and at last exhausted under the shocks of grandeur, I sat down,
and without blushing I confess I never enjoyed a half-bottle of
claret and a piece of beef as much as on this occasion ; my only
regret was not to have the other half as well. A few days ago,
when I tried for the first time the Oorwach, a real snow moun¬
tain where we had to wade through snow, sometimes knee deep,
and to balance the body on slippery ice for hours, the principles
of vegetarianism and teetotalism would not be practical in appli¬
cation. It is only natural that Spiritualism should tend to study
more closely the laws of health and well-being; but it easily
leads to over-enthusiasm; a sudden change in the mode of living
might not be in accordance with every constitution. If we
purify gradually the doubtless adulterated code of health from its
imaginary necessities, forced on it by gross materialism and its
helpmaid, luxury, this would be the proper course; it would
prevent the appearance of eccentricity, be more in harmony
with the general tone of society and progress, and produde more
sympathy among all classes. C, Reimeks.
Potresina, Switzerland.
NOVEL RECREATIONS OS’ THE LEARNED.
Sir,—I was present recently at a seance given by two gentle¬
men, whom I shall call A. and B., and intended as an “ exposure
of Spiritualism.”
Now, though I am much interested in Spiritualism, I never
had the opportunity of being present at a seance before. I
therefore take tho liberty of stating what occun-ed in this case,
and should be glad to know what material difference there is
between this sleight-of-hand performance and those which profess
to be genuine spirit manifestations.
The seance was held in a large room in presence of about fifty
persons. Professor A. was seated beside a small table on which
were placed two bells, a banjo, and a tambourine; and before
commencing we were told by Professor B. that we were to keep
our seats, and that no one was to strike a light until called for
by Professor A.
We were then left in darkness for about one minute, after
which the gas was relighted, and Professor A. was found to be
(apparently) securely bound to his chair, his hands being tied
behind him. Having been lifted round that the rope might be
examined, and a seal placed on the knot between his wrists, he
was replaced with his face to the company. The lights were
again extinguished, and instantaneously the bells were rung,
and the tambourine, which had been rubbed with phosphorus,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
153
Sept.. 24, 1875.
was sseh to move, first in the vicinity of the table, but after¬
wards over our heads to a distance of several yards, being all
the time rattled violently. A light was then called for, the
instruments fell to the ground, and Professor A. appeared bound
as before.
A gentleman was now asked to sit opposite to A. and to hold
his knees, and on the lights being put out the same phenomena
again took place, in addition to which the gentleman holding tho
Professor received a number of ■ slaps from invisible hands, the
tambourine being finally placed on his head, and his hat on the
head of Professor A.
After this was performed what is known as the coat feat. A coat
borrowed from one of the audience was placed on A.’s back and
buttoned, his hands being bound as before. The owner of the coat
now stood forward to receive it, being told to speak the moment
he felt it, which he did very .soon after the light was out. At
this period, however, the table, amidst a great rattling of bells,
was upset, and fell upon my feet as I was sitting directly before
it, and one of the bells having rolled towards me I stirred it with
my walking-stick, when to my surprise the end of the stick was
grasped, and pulled from the direction of Professor A., who im¬
mediately exclaimed, “ Some one has upset the table with a
stick.” Professor B. then called for a light, and the seance was
brought to a close.
Now I am quite convinced that no spiritual agency was used
in this case, for if it were not A.’s hand which grasped my in¬
nocent stick, why should he have suspected it of overturning
the table. I never knew before that walking-sticks were a good
bait for conjurors, but I presume the professor mistook it for a
bell handle.
I noticed that at the end of each performance A. appeared
much exhausted and called for a light as a drowning man might
call for help, and at one time when the lights were being
lowered I detected a sudden movement in one of his. arms. The'
tambourine was the only instrument which floated, and it might
have been attached to the end of a stick by B. or a confederate.
If you think that this letter would be of any interest to your
readers, and that it would not be unfair to Messrs. A. and B. to
publish it, you are at liberty to do so. K.
ALLAN KAKDEC’S “ SPIRITS’ BOOK.”
Sir,—Although tho Spirits’ Book, of which Miss Blackwell
has given us such an excellent translation, will doubtless find
abler reviewers than myself in its entirety, I should be glad if
you will allow me to offer a few remarks on one or two points
which strike me as particularly worthy of discussion.
In common with those who shun the subject of reincarnation,
I hold that the Spirits’ Book contains, apart from the exposition
of that doctrine, a mass of most interesting and instructive
matter, on the life and nature of the spirit, on intuition, free¬
will, materialism, and dreams; in short, there is hardly a ques¬
tion on tho aspects of life here and hereafter, its aims, its scope,
its successes and failures, its doubts and difficulties, that does
not find here an exhaustive answer, and, on the whole, to my
thinking, a satisfactory solution. Indeed, many object to the
teachings of Kardec for the sole reason that he explains too
much—that he accounts for everything. . But Kardec himself
deprecates this view of his writings, which is probably due to a
superficial reading rather than to a careful study of them. The
captious critic, if he will read only so far as page 7, will find
the following: “ Is it given to mankind to know the first prin¬
ciples of things ? No; there are things that cannot be under¬
stood by man in this world.” (See also par. 42.)
The experienced student of Spiritual phenomena in its various
forms may perhaps find nothing in the Spirits’ Book which he
has not already worked out for himself (reincarnation apart);
nevertheless, he will be grateful to Kardec for the categorical
ordering of the arguments and the clear and simple language
in which they are expressed. The fact that the conclusions are
those at which he has already arrived by his own research will
give the book additional favour in his eyes ; and he will thank
the “Maltre,” and no less his able interpreter, for having furnished
him with a text-book which he can put into the hands of in¬
quiring friends with the recommendation, “ Read that; you will
find all I have to say in much better words than I can put it; ”
and he will further bless the man who has saved him the task
of repeating arguments of which he is weary, as well as the risk
of falling out with his friend, whom he may fail to convince
after all.
But to set aside the question of reincarnation in criticising
• the Spirits’ Book is like leaving out the character of “Hamlet”
from the play of Hamlet. It is simply an evasion, since re¬
incarnation is both the base and crown of Spiritist philosophy.
One of the arguments adduced in favour of reincamation
is that “ it offers us the means of redeeming our errors by new
trials,” and that those whose experience comes too late to allow
them to profit by it in one life, have the opportunity of turning
it to account in succeedihg earthly or other planetary existences.
This appears to me a fair and rational conclusion, but it pre¬
supposes a premiss which is. nowhere either distinctly stated
or indicated as a starting-point; it is only mentioned inci¬
dentally and referred to at intervals, and yet it will be found
that tho whole necessity for the doctrine rests upon this foun¬
dation, viz., the supposed impossibility of the progress of the spirit
apart from its connection with an earthly body. If reincarnation
be an indispensable condition of purification and progress, it
must first be shown that there is no other means of purification
and progress provided for the spirit in a non-corporeal state of
existence. Kardec simply asserts that this is so, and takes no
pains to inform his readers how he has arrived at this turning-
point of the whole question—why he has chosen as his chief
corner-stone that which has been, if not rejected, at least over¬
looked by other builders.
Allan Kardec does nothing of this sort, but he imagines tha
he defends himself against possible attacks by such statements
as the following : “If we, and so many others, have adopted the
hypothesis of the plurality of existences, we have done so-not
merely because it has been proclaimed by spirits, but because
it has appeared to us to be eminently rational, and because it
solves problem^ that are insoluble by the opposite hypothesis.”
—P. 101. For the same reasons Positivists “ adopt the hypo¬
thesis” of Comte, and modern Pantheists the hypotheses of
Descartes, Spinoza, Hegel, or of whomsoever may be their
favourite speculator in philosophy. But then they do so with
the full knowledge that they are following a speculation or
hypothesis merely, and do not rest in it as an immovable convic¬
tion, that may be added to, but not controverted.
To most English Spiritualists I imagine that it is by no means
clear that there is no possibility of progress in what we under¬
stand as the spirit-world; neither does it appear so to Kardec
himself, since he hints (par. 219) that in the interval between
two existences “the spirit may have made considerable pro¬
gress.” Here is a discrepancy, at all events. If spirits can
make “ considerable progress ” without returning to the body,
why not dll the progress that is necessary. I do not make these
remarks in a captious spirit, but in order to call attention to
what appears to me the weak part of the Spiritist argument.
Other readers more careful than myself may be able to answer
my objections.
On the whole, I have derived much pleasure, and, I hope,
some profit, from my study of the Spirits’ Book; and I feel I
cannot do better than close my letter with the advice to youp
readers once given by Miss Blackwell herself to an objector to
reincarnation who was then unacquainted with the above
work—“ Read the book, and you will soon be answering objec¬
tions instead of making them.”
In conclusion, I may state that I have no prejudice against
reincarnation itself, and I have never heard any arguments in
its disfavour that might not with equal plausibility be produced
against Spiritualism as a whole. I only question the security
of the basis on which the doctrine of reincarnation is reared.
At best it must be accepted as a belief, and can in no way as yet
be considered as furnishing proof of that which it advances.
38, Great Eussell-street, London. Emily KlSLINGBURT.
MRS. TAPPAN’S WORK IN LIVERPOOL.
Sir,—As-Mrs. Tappan is about to leave our shores, perhaps
for years, it has occurred to me that a short sketch of the visible
results of her work here may not be uninteresting, from one who
has been on every occasion of her visits to the town of Liverpool
her constant companion as well as hostess. So far as I have
been able to observe, the results of Mrs. Tappan’s addresses have
been these.
The daily papers have dropped their tone of ridicule in
reporting her meetings, and now give a fair synopsis of each
oration in a perfectly respectful style, often eulogistic.
Her audiences have increased in respectability, and they now
take an attitude of deep attention and interest, whereas fourteen
months ago, when Mrs,. Tappan first visited us, they were stormy
and almost ungovernable in expressing their disapproval.
But more than all this, it is known to me that in the private
intercourse of our home life, Mrs. Tappan’s presence here has
sown the seeds of Spiritualism in the minds of many who would
not otherwise have been reached. I know of persons whom I
may term amongst the better classes of this town, who were only
a short time ago sneerers at Spiritualism, but who, through
154
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 24, 1875,
privately knowing Mrs. Tappan, and publicly attending her
addresses, have learned to love the high teachings of our faith,
and who have been won to a belief that spirit communion
is true.
Mrs. Tappan will be deeply regretted and missed by many
whose names are not yet enrolled as open believers in Spirit¬
ualism. More than one outsider will give her God-speed and
long for her return.
For me specially, and for mine, we shall feel Mrs. Tappan’s
loss so keenly, that we refrain from giving utterance to our
feelings in a letter of this nature.
E. Louisa. S. Nosworthy.
17, Eichmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool,
September 14th, 1875.
THE INFLUENCE OF SPECTATORS UPON MEDIUMS AT SEANCES.
Sir,—In certain letters written against reincarnation, and
published in your excellent journal, it has been said that the
Jesuits induced Kardec to invent this dogma to create a schism
in the ranks of the Spiritualists of the old school. But how is
it that this clerical conspiracy coincides so exactly with the
advent of modern Spiritualism ?
If has also been said that the preconceived ideas of listeners
at seances influenced the utterances of mediums in favour of
reincarnation. But would it not be equally just to say that
these ideas are also derived from the spectators, which influence
the utterances of mediums against reincarnation ?
What proof against or for reincarnation can we have through
the channel of physical mediums (for upon this point M.
Aksakof bases his arguments), from the moment that these
mediums are admitted to be influenced by the persons who
surround them ? And how can we take as a criterion the
utterances through physical mediums, the intelligences sur¬
rounding whom are usually incapable of tracing effects to
causes, and for the most part take a neutral position in regard to
this question.
I enclose my card, and shall be much obliged if you will
insert these questions in your journal. A Student.
Milan.
reichenbach’s magnetic flames.
Sir,—Admitting, for the sake of argument, that Reichenbach’s
sensitives did see emanations from the magnet used in his expe¬
riments, it should not be taken for granted that such emanations
would be continuous under the varying electrical conditions of
the atmosphere, or that there would be similar emanations from
a magnet'connected with a powerful battery.
I would suggest, therefore, that before the experiments are
considered exhaustive, sensitives should be employed to ob¬
serve—
1. An ordinary magnet.
2. Mr. Varley’s electro-magnet.
3. The same magnet detached from the battery.
If they do not see emanations, although it will not be proof
Reichenbach’s sensitives did not see any, it will throw doubt on
the point. If they do see them, there is little doubt they will
vary with the power of the magnets used, and by varying the
power the reality of the emanations and the accuracy of the
sensitives may be tested.
I have simple but weighty reasons for disbelieving that the
spirits of persons departed this life are the agents at work in
producing the phenomena; but I am making experiments which
so far tend to prove that the spirit or double of the medium is
the agent, and that some of the phenomena can be produced at
will; probably all may be, when we have.had more experience.
X.
[Permanent magnets were also tried in the experiments. The trials
were made, not to ascertain what sensitives could see, but to get definite
experimental physical results.—Ed.]
full and faithful reporting of proceedings at seances.
Sir,—Herr Christian Reimers desires that his suggestions may
not pass unnoticed, and I think they ought to be noticed at once,
for a more unfortunate suggestion was never made than that of
omitting those matters from our reports that may excite ridicule
in unbelievers. It is the duty of the reporter as a trustworthy
secretary to report precisely what occurs, and I protest in the
name of science and of truth against any such selections or
omissions as suggested. Who can yet say what is important?
The kicking of a dead frog’s legs was rather an insignificant and
ridiculous matter, but, being noticed and recorded, ended in the
electric telegraph. If as inductive philosophers we are to
endeavour to discover the source and the laws of action,- and
the real nature of the new phenomena, we must consider the
whole of the facts, and the bearings of the one upon the other.
Nothing could more damage the cause of Spiritualism and the
advancement of knowledge than the attempt to follow the sug¬
gestions of Herr Reimers ; there is nothing in the levity and dis¬
approbation of any person or any number of persons which can
affect the duty of full and honest reporting.
Some years since a French traveller in Africa gave, in the
Geographical Society, an account of a musical instrument he
had met with amongst a tribe of savages, the strings made of
vegetable fibre. A member of the society got up and ridiculed
the idea, on which the little Frenchman, in a rage, went
straight up to him and spat in his face. The Frenchman was
right, and the instrument may now be seen in the museum of
the Anthropological Society. Men may ridicule and deny the
facts of Spiritualism ; but as faithful secretaries and earnest and
honest inquirers, we are bound to report truly what occurs:
truth-seeking is not all a smooth journey. The pioneer will
meet opposition and find labour enough for his calling, and the
labour must often be its own reward. Men who read reports or
come to the inquiry with prejudiced minds, like Professor
Tyndall, will be sure to find matter for ridicule, but none for
their instruction, and unintentionally will misrepresent facts,
select what may seem ridiculous, and omit important matters.
But let the earnest and honest investigator report the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, with a noble and just scorn
for the slander, ridicule, and misrepresentation of the ignorant
sceptic. Herr Reimers is undoubtedly wise in admonishing
inquirers and reporters to restrain their excess of wonder and
enthusiasm. Henry G. Atkinson.
Boulogne.
[Du Ch&illu was disbelieved when he stated he had seen African natives
use harps with, strings of vegetable flhre. He, however, went there again,
and sent one of the harps home. His exaggerations about the terrible
nature and habits of the gorilla caused his statements to be more sharply
criticised than would otherwise have been the case.—Ed.]
THE ALLEGED GHOST. AT HACKNEY WICK.
Sir,—With reference to the report of the above, which I had
the honour of laying before the Council of the Dalston Associa¬
tion of Inquirers into Spiritualism on Tuesday evening, the
14th instant, I would be glad if any of your readers residing in
the neighbourhood who saw the ghost would kindly communi¬
cate with the Association.
I have written to the local press, with the view of eliciting fur¬
ther testimony upon this case, and trust you will publish these
few lines for the same purpose in your influential columns.
Thomas Blyton, Hon. Secretary.
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, London, E., 21st September, 1875.
P.S,—The following letter of mine was published in the
Eastern Post of Sept. 18th:—
To the Editor of the “ Eastern Post."
Sir,—The excitement which has recently prevailed in
connection with the above, is evidence of the curiosity
of the general public to see something of what is gene¬
rally considered “ all humbug,” and demonstrates the un¬
willing belief in the appearance of “ ghosts ” or “ spirits,” so
that when an occasion presents itself, hundreds of scoffers at the
spiritual element in man rush in, in the expectation of seeing
something. That this something has been seen by many per¬
sons is doubtless, but the nature of it is at present unsolved. If
a hoax has been perpetrated, let us expose it by all means, and
punish the offender; but if, on the other hand, the facts warrant
the idea that in this case we have an instance of spontaneous
spiritual appearance, it is the more necessary that careful ob¬
servations should be recorded, with the view of establishing the
truth and extending our very limited knowledge of the laws
which operate in similar cases to this.
As it is one of the objects of our Association to collect well-
authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism, we would be grateful
to receive reliable statements from those who have been fortu¬
nate enough to observe this matter. The minutest details are
undoubtedly of the utmost importance, and those of your
numerous readers who may communicate their experiences are
respectfully requested to state clearly and concisely the time
and manner of the ghost’s appearance; the period it was
visible; whether the features of the face were discernible or
recognisable; how, and in what manner, draped; the manner of
its disappearance, whether gradually or instantaneously;
whether the ghost was opaque or transparent; and any other'
points which may suggest themselves to the careful observer.
That spirits can and do appear to each and all of our senses,
THE SPIBITUALIST,
155
Sept. 24, 1875.
investigators into Spiritualism have ample evidence, notwith¬
standing that many who have not given the matter their atten¬
tion may deny the experiences of those who have examined the
recent manifestations, testified to by all classes of society, from
the highest to the lowest. In the face of such knowledge, we
are anxious to carefully examine the evidence bearing upon the
subject of the alleged ghost’s appearance by the side of
Duckett’s-canal, in Wick-lane, Yictoria-park, so as to facilitate
the work we have in hand.
We require, in the case of all those who communicate with
the Association, their name and address, as a guarantee of the
truthfulness of such statements, and “ facts ” alone should be
dealt with. I may add that information was submitted with a
report of the case at the last ordinary council meeting on Tues¬
day evening last, the 14th instant, and the subject was ordered
to stand over until the next meeting, but in the meantime fur¬
ther evidence was to be solicited.
Thomas IBlvton, Hon. Sec.
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74 Navarino-
road, Daleton, E., 15th Sept., 1875.
iPrdbtnctal Jietos.
NEWCASTLE.
Newcastle Spiritual Society.—About five-and-twenty
members of the above society met at the rooms in Weir’s-court,
Newgate-street, on Thursday evening, Sept. 16th, and held a
seance for materialisations in the large hall, in which a new
cabinet had been placed, made according to spirit instructions.
It is seven feet high, six feet wide, and about three and a half
deep, strongly boarded, painted black inside, and hung in front
with dark green curtains. Inside there are a mattress and
pillow for the medium to lie upon. The sitters formed a semi¬
circle in front, but some distance off, and the room was lit by
one gas burner turned very low. After the medium had entered
the cabinet, Mr. Annstrong, the president of the society, made
a few remarks, in the course of which he asserted that this
society had at its circles obtained as good, if not better, manifes¬
tations of spirit power than anywhere in England, and that the
present successes were the result of the experience gained by
past failures. He said that the committee would be strict in not
allowing non-members of the society to attend the Thursday
evening seances. The company then sang one or two melodies,
when a figure emerged from the cabinet, enveloped in soft white
drapery from head to foot, and playing a concertina to the accom¬
paniment of the singing ; after which it advanced to several of the
sitters and shook hands with them ; before others it hesitated
and would not do so. It did not speak, but was recognised as
u Benny ” by somd of the members of the circle who had been pre¬
sent before. Seemingly encouraged by their warm greetings,
he advanced with quick steps into the centre of the circle, back
again into the cabinet, round the circle again, then put up an
umbrella, walked round the circle with it, playfully touched some
of the sitters with a walking stick, walked arm in arm with Miss
Fairlamb, and so on until he eventually retired into the cabinet.
The figure was apparently about six inches taller than Miss
Wood, who was the medium; but it was difficult to judge accu¬
rately, and it is the intention of the committee to place strips of
white paper down the edge of the cabinet, so to mark the
number of feet and inches. On a previous occasion the same
form took a pencil from Mr. Armstrong and made a mark on
the wall as high as he could reach, and it was tested afterwards
with the medium, who could not reach it. The medium on this
occasion was not secured in the cabinet in any way, and the
seance lasted about an hour and a quarter.
On Monday, October 4th, Mr. T. P. Barkas will deliver a
lecture in Newcastle on “Facts stranger than Fiction,” and on
Monday, November 1st, he will deliver another lecture, the
subject being “ Optical Illusions in their Relation to Alleged
Modem Spiritual Phenomena.”
• LEICESTER.
A TRANCE LECTURE ON THE WITCH OP KNDOR.
On Sunday evening last week Mr. Chapman, a trance medium,
delivered an address upon the subject of the Witch of Endor, at
the Society of Spiritualists’ room, in Silver-street. Mr. Clarke
presided, and there was a fair attendance. The service com¬
menced at half-past six o’clock, when a hymn ^yas sung, after
which the medium engaged in prayer. Next came a short
statement by Mr. Barber, one of the members of the society, to
he effect that, as a mile, the spirit chose the subject for the
medium about to address the assembly, and upon that occasion
the controlling spirit was a Yorkshireman.
The entranced medium then remarked that his subject that
night was “ The Witch of Endor.” All witches, at least in the
present day, were supposed to be old, shrivelled-up women,
with hardly a bit of skin on their bones and scarcely any hair
on their heads; all of them had been looked upon, until the
present day, as something despicable, horrid, and beyond the
comprehension of man. He did not see why this should be so,
for they had no account that the witch of Endor was an old
woman, or that she lived in a tumble-down, old hut, as plenty
of folks did. They had no account of her being shrivelled up,
or trying to find out how to ruin somebody. They read that
she was a woman endowed with gifts, or she would not have
been found in company w'ith Samuel., “ Birds of a feather
flock together” was an old saying and a true one. If she had
not been a good woman Samuel would not have been with her,
because they understood that he was a prophet in Israel—a
mighty man in the day he dwelt upon the earth. They also
read of Saul in the Bible, and that he went out to fight against
the Amalekites, but because he was unfaithful to the command
given to him, God no more answered him by visions nor by the
prophets, and therefore in those days he had no other alterna¬
tive than to seek out one of those that he had been the
means of casting out of the land. The woman of Endor
was no more a witch, according to the common accepta¬
tion of the term, than he was. He had no doubt she
was a medium ; but there was one thing about what was
stated in the Bible he could not understand. It stated that the
“ gods ” came up, whereas the law of gravitation had taught
him that they should come down. He wished them to recollect
this language, because it would simplify what he was about to
say. When Saul asked that some one should be brought up,
he asked for Samuel, and they read that the woman “ saw gods
ascending out of the earth.” She understood that all spirits
and angels were gods, and she thought Samuel was a god; she
saw gods coming up out of the earth, and there was one amongst
them, an old man with grey hair, and his face shone brightly.
If those present could only see the bright beings around them
then, they would call them gods. Why ? Because it was the
only language applicable to the beings who dwelt in the sphere
of eternal life. Gods were coming out of the earth, but one of
them whose face shone as the sun, and whose garments' shone,
was called Samuel. Some one might ask how they could prove
that this woman was a medium ? or how could they prove that
it was by her authority or power that Samuel came up and con¬
versed with Saul, and told him his doom was sealed—that he
had run his race, had been unfaithful to his charge, and for
that reason he would be deposed and another put in his place ?
Did not the Scriptures toll them ? Had they not mediums in
their midst who could describe to them the forms of persons
who had long since passed away? Yes, they had, and they
knew it, and these individuals were just in the same position
as the witch of Endor. She was placed in a position of power,
and she could understand and declare to others what she had
observed, and what had not been disclosed to the eyes of others
present for the time being. There was no doubt also that this
woman who was called the witch of Endor possessed clairvoyant
powers. She spoke to Samuel, and told him what to say, and
she told Saul also that his kingdom should be rent out of his
hands. Saul had been unfaithful, and he had come to this witch
because he was cast off by God. The God of the Jews had for¬
saken Saul, who had declared that all witches and those with
familiar spirits should be cast out of the land, for the law had
gone forth from Moses that witches should not be suffered to live.
Why, Moses was the greatest wizard amongst them. When that
mountain-writing was done, when there were traced on two
stones the words conveying to them the grandest catalogue of
moral precepts ever given to man, it was God who did it, but
He was the God of the Jews. Some of them believed that they
worshipped the only God, and that that God was a jealous God,
who would look upon all the sins they had committed, and
would visit their sins upon their children, and hand them down
from generation to generation. Did they believe all that ?. Was
it right, or just, or could it be love that would prompt the
being who ruled the Universe to choose out a handful of the
population of the world for his special favour while casting the
others off ? Would it be right for him (the medium) to choose
a few individuals out of that congregation and say, “ I will only
tell you my thoughts and desires and aspirations ? ” He might
like this person or the other, but it was not so with God. Do
not let them lay this libel to the charge of the Being who filled
the world with His presence. That the God of the Jews did this
he was not going to deny; and it was only misapprehension
156
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 24, 1875
that placed the God of the Universe in the same category as
the God of the Jews. In all periods there were some persons
gifted with extraordinary power. Moses no doubt was trained
to a great extent in magic, for there were great magicians in
Egypt; he learnt a great deal of magic, and how to commune with
the spirit-world: he learnt all the phenomena that wer6 to be
seen at the present day in certain mediums gifted with ex¬
traordinary power. He was able to take the position he* did
with regard to leading the children of Israel from their state of
bondage to a land of liberty. But he was jealous. Moses was
a medium; if hot, he could not have got direct writing from
God; if he were not, he could not have seen the bush on fire ;
and if he were not a wizard he could not have talked face to
face with the Being he called God. The Bible said ho saw God,
and in another place it stated that no man hath seen God at any
time ; but that he saw by ocular demonstration a person calling
himself Jehovah he was not going to deny. He emphatically
declared without "the least fear of contradiction that the witch
of Endor was not old, that she was not an avaricious or licen¬
tious woman, but one that the servants of the king noticed;
they understood her calling, but she did not do it for gain ; she
did not charge Saul anything. She was afraid of the law of the
land, not because she had any misgiving that she was doing
wrong, but because the law of the land said that no witch should
live; for that reason she was afraid when Saul came to. try to seek
a manifestation of the spirit he wanted. She acted upon the per¬
suasion that no harm should befall her. There was a seance,
and Saul got something for his trouble ; Saul was cloaked up,
but the mediums generally knew how to pick out Nicodemuses,
who could not go into the spirit-world robed and unknown.
Saul could not disguise himself from the spirit-world.
One or two questions of an unimportant character'were asked,
which the medium answered, after which another hymn was
sung, and the proceedings terminated.
SOUTHPORT.
The Resueeection, and Life aftee Death.—On Sunday
evening last an able lecture was delivered on this subject, in
the Duke-street New Church, by the Rev. D. J. Smithson. The
preacher observed that one of the most sublime subjects that can
possibly engage our attention is that of the future state, or the
life after death. It, is indeed to be regretted that in the
Christian world, generally the ideas entertained concerning
the same are vague and indefinite. Whatever may be the
opinions respecting the authority of Swedenborg on this subject,
one thing is certain—that his exposition of this wonderful and
sublime theory is in harmony with Scripture, with reason, and
with common sense. There are many who believe that the
material body will be raised again, and notwithstanding the
palpable fact that after death the body decays, and when it
is put into the ground goes again into dust, yet these people
imagine that at some future time these skeletons will be raised
again. But such a thought is contrary to science, as well as to
reason, for after the body is put into the ground it evaporates
into certain gases, which ascend into the atmosphere, and are
blown about in invisible particles into the boundless air. What,
then, becomes of the material body ? It goes into dust,
from which it sprang. It is left behind as an old
glove or coat, which is worn out, and which is no longer
required. It is the soul, or real man, which alone can inherit
eternal life. St. Paul said, “ There is a natural body, and there
is a spiritual body.” “ Now, this I tell you, that flesh and blood
cannot inherit eternal life.” The lecturer, after quoting -some
scientific facts, and alluding to what Mr. Spurgeon said on a re¬
cent occasion, proceeded to say that the idea of the spiritual body
rising from the grave was no doubt based upon one or two
passages in the epistles, which seemed somewhat obscure.
Was the physical body the real man ? No : what was the body
without the spirit ? A dead inanimate piece of clay. Did the
natural eye see of itself ? Any oculist could testify it is but a -
good eye-glass. The spiritual eye has to make an observation,
through the physical, every time we .see anything. The ear of
the natural body hears as much after death as before ; because
it never hears at any time. It only repeats the sounds that
enter it. It is the spiritual ear alone that hears. After all,
death is but a continuance of life ; it makes no change in the
character of a man; as the tree falls so it lies. All the good
works which a man has done in this world, and all the good
affections which he has cherished, bring him into the society of
the blessed. The evil works which he has practised in this
world, and the'wicked thoughts and affections he has cherished
here, bring him into the company of the lost. “ Can the Ethio¬
pian change his skin, or the leopard his spots ? then may ye
also do good that are accustomed to do evil.” The sceptic may
look into the grave and scornfully mutter, “ There is no other
life,” but the Christian can clasp his Bible and say, with the
poet—
This informs ma I shall never die :
The stars shall fade away, the sun himself
Grow dim with ago, and nature sink in years;
But thou shalt flourish in immortal youth,
v Unhurt amid the war of elements,
The wreck of matter, and the crash of worlds.
The lecture occupied nearly an hour in delivery, and was
listened to with great attention by a large congregation.—
Southport Visitor.
WITCHES’ CHARM-JUGS.
A lettee by Mr. W. H. Bow in The Figaro of last Wednesday
says:—
“ I may mention that I have offered my thanks and obli¬
gations to Mr. Chaffers for having directed attention to the
real nature of those old-fashioned aid-jugs. The search for any
reference to the uses of witch-pots was made by. using the
initial tenn of ‘ Charm,’ or ‘Witch,’ and failing to find a
mention of it in any way either in Bailey's Dictionary or in the
National Cyclopaedia, and having by personal inspection failed
to discern in the Geological Museum any semblance of them,
led me to say they did not exist there.
“ One of the-real questions involved in opening this contro¬
versy is as to the uses of these old jugs: not whether they are
German or Staffordshire baked, not whether they are common
or scarce, not aq to the mere ornamentation, but this is it:
‘ Was the custom of employing these jars, or, jugs, a local or a
generally prevailing superstition amongst the English country
people?’
“And here—par parenthlse—I should like to say, with more
humility than I pretended to affect when speaking of pots and
pans, that, surely, all our superstitions do not spring from
ignorance.
“ Some of our superstitions have such potency in them that
they sweeten the daily life of any man who accepts their
influence. See, too, how largely they intermix with our every¬
day life. What housewife—to take a small example-i—but is
turned from preparation of noon dinner by appearance of
crossed knives.
“ There is this to be said as coincident with the witch-pot
found in 1852 : it shows that in the eastern counties the custom
of burying pots under the lintel of the door was known in the
neighbourhood of Saffron Walden.
“ The custom was known in Lincolnshire, for, when mention¬
ing this ‘ find ’ to a gentleman at Wisbeach, he stated that a jug
had been discovered by some workmen, who broke what was
deemed an old jug, appropriated the bright needles, and so the bit
of pottery was lost to the museum there; and I take it for a
fair assertion that, rich in specimens of fine art as that museum
is, it has yet no sample of the old ale-jug. |
“ I have had no time to search among the old minor poets for
any poetical allusion to these things. I do not find any direct
mention of them in Shakespeare. In Macbeth the First Witch
sings something like this to ye : ‘ Boil them first i’ the charmed
pot ’; but that is a cauldron, as you know, and does not hint at
the custom of using them against the incursion of witches.
“ I purpose giving some leisure to searching f ot such references
among the poets, and if I find them in any play or poem you
shall have them.
“ One now looks into Shakespeare without gaining thereby, for
in the Taming of the Shrew the phrase occurs—
Because she brought stone jugs and no sealed quarts,
and in a foot-note we are informed that sealed quarts were such
as were licensed at Court Leet. This, however, is only correla¬
tive evidence that jugs were in use for many domestic purposes.
They had, it may’be inferred, an exact capacity, or market
value—the pottle being among them as a measure.
“ The rude specimen I have is a very worthy type of the old
witch-jug or greybeard, for very uncouth is the mask with the
spout bearded.
“In capacity it holds about 7 gills, in height it is 8# inches,
and round the belly 16 inches. The mouth of it will hardly
allow a shilling to drop in.”
Me. G. R. Hinde and family are leaving England for California ;
they will accompany Mrs. Tappan as far as New York. Mr.
Thomas Hinde will continue to reside in Darlington.
Allan Kaedec’s Booh of Spirits, translated by Mrs. Emma
A. Wood, is coming out in parts in the Spiritual Scientist. The
translation is inferior in style to hat of the same work by Miss
Anna Blackwell.
Sept. 24, ISfS,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG f, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GEEAT EUSSELL-STKEET, BLOOMSBUEY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in "Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
viwi iruyaioiogy, is out oi print.
ES OP THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. P. G.
C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court'Of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OP ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
 report. Original edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN TILE PHENOMENA OP SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by_ Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a master!}*argument in reply; to
Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OP SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. Gd.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Od.
WHERE. ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. 1L, by E. W.*Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OP T   -
Lee, D.C
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by‘the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age;
Science; and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology: Miracles and Science;
the Spirit ' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit: the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo.i 600 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
THE- RISE AND PROGRESS OP SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each.. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in " The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their Instructions.”
6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OP IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OP THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a; trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth.Best edition. Gilt, 10s. Gd.; cheap.edition, 7s. Gd.
POEMS OP PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE PROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes »and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT ; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. , 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
HOW AND WHY. I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST, By Wash¬
ington A. DansTdn, 4s. Gd. • •
PSALMS OP LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an Introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Od.
THE PRINCIPLES' OP NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OP PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of bis
subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. Gd.
ARCANA OP NATURE,, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., i2s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem’by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
6s. Gd.
FLASHES OP LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD
Through the mediumship of Mrs; Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OP MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
•RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardeo. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.)- 7s. Gd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OP THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM
7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OP NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OP A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OP THE AMAZULtJ, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OP TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P
Barkas
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF PACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchler Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OP SPIRITS IN- RELATION TO
MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OP THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 3s. Gd.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev, James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 24, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Beformer.
The .Thinker.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
» ~ ' „ II.
* HI.
IV.
.. V.
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land ' .
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History*nd Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , .
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Grim
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology ,
Morning Lectures . .. . . . j
s. d.
15 0
5 0
6 6
7 6
7 6
5 0
5 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . . . . . - .
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism ......
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) ...
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . ...
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ......
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ......
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . . . . . . . .
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts ......
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre-
. liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. .
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. .
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . .
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, hy Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople
Son. Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul heyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. .. . ,
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. ....
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, hy George Sale
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools . . . . . .
s. d.
24 0
2 6
6 0
14 0
6 0
18 0
12 6
15 0
7 6
10 6
16 0
10 6
10 6
6 0
2 0
12 0
3 6
18 0
10 6
1 0
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A ’SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
-“ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam-
' phlet: “ There is in it a jgood deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought. 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conan t.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TPHE ISLINGTON PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION
JL FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. Mrs. Bullock and other healers in attendance daily from 11 a.m.
till 2 p.m., Sundays from 11 a.m. till 1 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, prin¬
cipals.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jonos, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hiiton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.-—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. .—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
2. —The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
3. —Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
4. —Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
5. —The purpose of God in creation.
6. —The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
7. —The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
8. —The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
9. —Spiritual Marriages.
10. —Spiritual Symbols.
11. —The Lost Orb. Part 1.
12. —The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
13. —The Lost Orb. Part II.
14. —Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
15. —The Lost Orb. Part III.
16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, wiQj her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original «of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERMOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O '
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
T~ HE GRAMMAR SCHOOL, DALTON-IN-FORNESS.
Inclusive Terms: Forty Guineas per annum. A Reduction for
Brothers. Prospectus on Application. Percy Ross Harrison, B.A., Pemb.
Coll., Oxon, Principal.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
EOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement  J. Coates, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM is discussed
in the number of the NONCONFORMIST for Wednesday, eep-
tember IDth, in an elaborate Essay reviewing all the recent works on the
subject, and referring to late personal experiences. By a Man of Science.
Sent by post on the receipt of Fivepenoa. 18, Bouverie-street, Fleet-
street, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co„ at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lana London E.O.
