Registered as a Newspaper,
Otf f’^YdfEOI<OGfldSl<
Cfjc Uctuspjpr wwutfeb iottlj in (feat §nfaht.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : u, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and x8, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Pbilosophical Journal
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 247.—(Vol. X.—No. 20.) LONDON : FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTcmtentg.
Vegetable Diet   
Spirits in Prison. By William Oxley  
A Seance in the Sunshine. (Poetry.) By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D   
The Influence of Diet. By W. H. Harrison. (Poetry)...
The Report of the Committee of the Spiritualists’ Defence
Fund       
Curious Experiments with Steel Handcuffs 
Investigators’ Seances    
Form Manifestations. By the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses,
M.A. (Oxon.)     
The “ Foundations.” By G. F. Green, Author of One of
the Prize Essays of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists   
A Rat-Eating Seer. By Sir Charles Isham, Bart 
Everettism. By Edward W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law, Presi¬
dent of the Psychological Society of Great Britain ...
“ Two Gifts.” By Florence Marryat. (Poetry.) 
The Personal Identity of Communicating Spirits. A Seance
with Mr. J. W. Fletcher       
Identified Spirit Forms. By Benjamin Coleman 
Poetry .-—Life—The Greater Number  
Correspondence:—Swedenborg’s Teachings—Another In¬
cident in the Life of Dr. Wolff—Messages through
Writing Mediumship—Drawing-Room Meetings —
Spirit Drapery    ' ...   
Miss Martineau's Relation to Spiritualism 
A Dream about the Spirit of the Rose. By Catherine
Woodforde  
A Devotional Seance for Whit-Sunday ...  
Paragraphs:—Mr. George Farmer, 229; Spiritualism in
Dalston, 230 ; Impediments to Scientific Investigation,
233 ; Mr. Fletcher at Mrs. Weldon's Social Meetings,
234; An Entertainment at Grasmere ...   
229
230
230
231
231
231
231
233
234
234
235
235
236
237
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress oj the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions hi its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ot Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelina Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the '■ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “Unorthodox London”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. 8. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, FRG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy: Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bnry; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subseription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places:—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio. Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophicdl Journal Office.
Memphis, TJ.S.: 225, union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington:.No 1010 Seventh-street
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
'should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russcll-strcet, London. W.C,
April, 1877. 1
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
OF
Tuesday,
Friday,
Monday,
Friday,
Thursday,
Friday,
Monday,
Tuesday,
Agenda for May, 1877.
8th.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
1UA.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
l6fA—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
18 th.—Soiree Committee at 5 p.m.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
24f/t.—Seance Committee, at 7 p.m.
25th.—^Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
28th.—Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
29<A—Annual General Meeting of Members,
at 6.30 p.m.
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held every Thursday evening at 8
p.m. Tickets to Members, Is.; and Seances for Members and
Subscribers only every Tuesday evening, at S p.m. Tickets,
2s. 6d. Applications for tickets must always be made in
advance.
A Series of Trance Seances, Mr. E. W. Wallis, medium, are
held every Saturday afternoon, at 3 p.m. Admission to
Members and Friends, Is.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
In aid of Defence Fund for Free Press.
MRS. S. PARKER, of Dublin, will Lecture
on “ Labour versus Degradation,” on Tuesday evening,
May 22nd, at 8 for 8.30, the proceeds to be devoted to Mrs.
Anne Besant’s defence, at the Rooms of the Marylebone
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, Quebec Hall, 25,
Great Quebec-street, W.
CHARLES WHITE, Hon. Sec.
J WILLIAM FLETCHER, the American
• Inspirationalist, will deliver a LECTURE on Spirit¬
ualism, in conjunction with the usual Concert, for the benefit
of Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage, on Monday evening, May 2ist, at
Langham Hall.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, Clairvoyant and
Trance Medium, No. 14, Southampton-row. Seances
attended at residence if desired. At home II to 5. 
Just published, in crown 8vo, price 5s. cloth.
Mesmerism, spiritualism, &c., His¬
torically and Scientifically Considered, By William
B. Carpenter, C.B., M.D., LL.D., F.R.S.
London: LONGMANS & CO.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.1
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A. Binney.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently prodneed by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—‘Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr, Boughton, St. George’s-
road. <
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
Puu'crmrNT'P
HENRY D. JENCKKN' ESQ., M.R.L
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the A ssociation for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus,
sioris, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have'the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary: and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines arc
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
onnation of circles and conduct olseances." and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE ENDrE.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven ,
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851.-—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
HATCHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATOHARD & 00.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &C.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.O.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-roftd, Anerley, S.E,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 18, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, DIdsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,IP, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 62,'Warwick-square, S.W.  
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Bai-rister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 90, Portland-place, W.
Rogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-liuildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cmnberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Dert>3' House, Helper.
ArmfleW.W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F A.,24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.'
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea. Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.I)., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fahyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. Delamere-cescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H, T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E .Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Malthy, Mrs.. 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage. Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21. Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould. Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston. E.
Reiirers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, M rs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa. Church-end, Finchley, N,
Stra vnrjdge. Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcl iff e-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street. Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensieigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W. /
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
WRson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Mr, J. K. Andre.
Auditors.
Mr. H. Cook. ’
Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Springs,CayugaCo., NewYork, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel. 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Strata, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Sniriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—K1 Visconde do Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senqr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
3S, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can bo attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice- President — John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—1Ar. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer —Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mx Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davjps, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Mr. J. Lament, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenherg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Mimed Rasstm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjg Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veil, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Chamns-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mitlra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Bebeea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma fiardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2B, Leipsic, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
US.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq:, Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J, M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2. Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Bov. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.; 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
London: E. W. Allen, 11. Ave Maria-lane. E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vois, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
X> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every .month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soci&tA
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (thirty years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at
his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hilJ, Kensington.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and Instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 8 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N. W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. j. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Rapa.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o'clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke
Mrs. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, bnt the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself, Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavis tock-square, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
4 scientifically accurate description of Manifeslations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HaBBISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great' Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of « priori objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that bis descriptions of
facts are couched in a modera’e and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.’’—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.’’—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in bis preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in SpiiHl People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’—tfowfA Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
VojLujviE Tejn(. Kumber Twenty.
LONDON. FRIDAY, MAY 18th, 1877.
VEGETABLE DIET.
Nothing can be more natural than that sensitive people,
averse’ to the infliction of suffering in any form, should
desire, if it were possible, to cease to live upon the flesh of
slaughtered animals. All nature is everywhere preying
upon itself. Great is the mystery that one section of living
things should exist upon the sacrifice of the lives of another
section. The fangs of the tiger rend the flesh of the living
antelope ; the hawk tears to pieces its prey ; the white man
is gradually a improving ” weaker races off the face of the
earth; in all directions the helpless succumb—the strong
survive. What wonder is it then that among the more
refined and spiritualised samples of the human race, the
question has at last been raised whether it is necessary to
subsist upon slaughtered beasts, and whether the eating of
animal flesh may not be regarded three hundred years hence,
with an abhorrence like that which we now bestow upon the
cannibal habits of our savage ancestors.
That animal food is not necessary to sustain human life
in Great Britain has been amply demonstrated. The vege¬
tarians are a moderately numerous body, who have carried
out their principles for a prolonged period, and among
Spiritualists are several who have been vegetarians all their
lives, and who are as healthy as anybody else, if not more
so. These existing examples do not, however, prove that
all persons could live without animal food ; hereditary pre¬
disposition and other causes may tend to make the sudden
use of vegetable diet dangerous to particular experi¬
mentalists, and possibly the immediate descendants of
persons who were great meat eaters might injure their health
by attempting to subsist upon a purely vegetable diet. In
this, as in all other unsolved problems, the best light for
guidance will be found in the results of practical experiments,
and we should be glad to print, with great brevity,
the personal experiences of those who have tried to do
without animal food. The following cases relating to
Spiritualists who have tried vegetarianism, have come under
our notice: — (1.) Mr. A., a gentleman of independent
means, tried the effect upon himself of a purely vegetable
diet; he found that he became clearer in thought and happier
in mind, but in a few weeks was much weakened in body ;
medial powers began to develope, and he had visions of the
other world. As he thus became more en rapport with the
next world he grew more unfitted for this one, the result
being that he found himself obliged to return once more to
animal diet. (2) Mr. B., an eminent scientific man, tried
vegetable diet, and found himself unfit for the duties of the
world, and for battling with rough, hard business people.
His powers of enduring fatigue were not so great as before.
He returned to animal diet, with the conviction that if the
world were better than it is at present, vegetable food would be
better for him. (3) Mr. C., a literary man, who did not like to
put others to kill animals which he certainly would never
have killed for himself, began to subsist upon vegetable diet
as much as possible, and found his health and powers of
clear thought considerably improved thereby; if he ate too
little animal food he was unfitted for the rough work of this
world. In the end, he reduced his regular consumption of
animal food to less than one-half the quantity he habitually
consumed before he began his experiments, and has ever
since found himself all the better for the change. He thinks
that the reason why he is- obliged to eat a certain proportion
of animal food is hereditary predisposition. Sometimes
those who try vegetarian diet complain more than before of
feeling tired,” so experiments by persons in weak health
should be conducted with caution.
Mr. Colville, the trance medium, has been influenced by
Ids spirits to subsist entirely on vegetable food, and very
little of that. Mr. Morse, inspirational speaker, lived on
| | vegetable food for a time, we do not know whether he does
in so now. Mr. Peebles, who sometimes lectures in a semi-
: | trance state, once, under gentle pressure, tried vegetable
i i diet while living with vegetarians, but by way of reaction
]) I consumed beefsteaks with avidity elsewhere during the same
11 i period.
] | The hypothesis that men take upon themselves some of
j) | the characteristics of the animals they eat, is held chiefly by
I | children and the lower races of mankind. Certain savages
| eat the nasty flesh of the tiger “ to make themselves fierce,”
! i and Sir John Lubbock’s little girl once said to her little brother
| | at dinner—“Johnny, if you eat so much goose you’ll go silly.”
j ! One of the most quarrelsome and aggressive public men of
I j I the present generation subsists entirely upon inoffensive
I | vegetables; on the above theory his characteristics would
| ! seem to arise from the accidental eating of earwigs in im-
i perfectly washed cabbages. Sir Charles Isham—who always
i | gives thoughtful attention to advanced problems, and was
iji one of the first in this country to publicly avow himself a
j) 1 Spiritualist—has recently written and lithographed some
j|j verses somewhat in favour of abolition of animal diet, and
| jj he gives the following true story of a sad accident, worse
1 than the earwig case just mentioned:—
i (| With languid grace a maiden sank,
Recumbent on a mossy bank:
The day was hot, the sun was bright,
Symbol of heavenly delight.
In confidence the girl reposed,
All careless, with her lips unclosed :
j (j Whilst thus delightfully she slept,
Within those lips a lizard crept,
j t ■ In dreadful anguish she awoke,
| j i Alas, in agony to choke.
IHer marble form, which still remains,
Too vividly the truth explains:
A fearful lizard, lank and lean,
Life-like between those lips is seen.
The tableau, whilst you look, improves,
The long green tail—Oh ! Horror!—moves!
’Tis thought a very wondrous thing,
But I believe they pull a string.
The motes and dust floating in common air, are rich in
; | animal and vegetable life; with every breath he inspires,
i I every vegetarian swallows myriads of living things. The
|| simplest way of avoiding this, is to plug the nose and mouth
) ( ! with cotton-wool, to filter the air. Certain animal parasites
| I live between the teeth, and often die between the jaws when
i I the latter are employed in crushing vegetables; the slaughter
111 of these innocents might be avoided, by the apostle of
) I vegetarianism wending his way to a dentist, and having all
| >! his teeth extracted. The white corpuscles of the blood
i | are much like one of the lowest forms of animal life, tbe
| j | amoeba ; they both swim about in liquids in the same lively
! ! way, and they strongly resemble each other. The musclesj
j j I as well as other parts of the human organism, feed upon
! (I the blood, and if the white corpuscles can be proved to be
j j living things, the carrying out of vegetarian principles is
111 difficult.
11 i Mr. George Farmer.—Mr. George Farmer, formerly editor of the
|): Spiritualistic journal, The Pioneer of Progress, writes to us from St.
|) i Kitts, West Indies, that he is collecting information during his travels
| (| about spiritual phenomena in foreign countries. He left London on the
;) I third of December last in a private steam yacht of 1,200 tons, put in for
1' i two days at Vigo in Spain, and sailed thence to Lisbon; touching at
Madeira and Teneriffe en route, he made the coast of South America,
I January 24th, and anchored in the Demerara river early next day. He
spent ten weeks in Georgetown, and made trips into the interior with
the Indians. On the fourth of April last he started on a tour through
the island, visiting Trinidad, St. Lucia, Guadaloupe, Antigua, Dominica,
i and St. Kitts. He expected to leave Demerara about May 7th for
: Jamaica and Cuba, and, after visiting one or two places in Mexico, tp
i i | return to England via Boston and New York, reaching London about
i (i the end of June, His letter contains no psychological news.
230
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 18, J 877.
SPIRITS IN PRISON.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
The late trials of the three mediums resulting, as they did, in the
break down of the charge against one, and the conviction and committal
to prison of the other two, possess an interest which affects far more
than the individuals immediately concerned. In after years, when the
present movement, known popularly as Spiritualistic, shall have
assumed a more concrete form, these trials, convictions, and imprison¬
ments will have a historical value which we of this generation fail to
recognise. The prevailing scepticism in regard to spiritual agency is
the result of ignorance, and the present materialistic tendency of the
human mind is due to the long-continued apparent non-interference of
spiritual beings in sublunary affairs. The reason for this has doubtless
been that the leading minds of humanity might pay more attention to
the study of natural science, or the laws which appear to govern the
world in which we have our consciousness for the time being, so as to
afford a base or ground in which the seed of spiritual knowledge might
be sown and germinate, thence produce fruitage in the consciousness of
spiritual truth and life. The state having now arrived after the close
of this preparatory process, we find that a mighty influence is descend¬
ing from the world of spirit; this will go on expanding, until, knowing
the laws which operate, we may consciously have our being or indi¬
viduality in the two worlds at the same time.
One of the convicted mediums having undergone his term of three
months’ imprisonment is now liberated from his involuntary confine¬
ment, and, thanks to improved spirit in the administration of our laws,
his bodily health and vigour do not seem to have been impaired
thereby, and I have no doubt but that all who come in contact with
Dr. Monk will notice that the effect of his enforced withdrawal from
public life has had a beneficial effect in producing a happier state in his
own spiritual condition, and that it will be seen a higher manifestion of
spiritual power will be given through his mediumship than the produc¬
tion of mere physical phenomena. But even in this we have had ample
evidence since his liberation that this gift is no way impaired.
One evening last week eight of us sat round a table, Dr. Monck being
one of us. After a little cheerful conversation he was controlled, and
for half an hour while in the trance state, and evidently inspired by
the higher intelligences, gave us an intensely interesting discourse on
the higher and purer phases of spirit power and life. Much of it was
couched in the language of symbols, of which we know that he under¬
stands little or nothing of in his ordinary condition.
Our old friend “ Samuel ” then took control, and said if we would
lower the light somewhat he would try to do a little. We then all
linked hands, and we saw, somewhat indistinctly, a white figure behind
the medium; and, as some of the company did not notice it, Samuel
requested all to put our hands in the centre of table, and that his medium
should lean forward, his hands being fast in mine. We did so, and
twice this was repeated, the figure appearing in dim outline, and then
filling up with a dense white robe; it was very rapid in its formation
and disappearance. As I sat next to the medium I took very particular
notice, and was quite wide awake to detect auy imposition, if such had
been attempted. I am quite confident the medium did not move a
muscle, and, that the appearance was real, was confirmed by the words
of all the others who witnessed it, and especially by one lady, who, not
having seen anything of the kind before, gave expression to a feeling of
alarm.
There being a curtain drawn across the large window which I had
previously darkened, Dr. Monck went behind itpresently, five
different forms appeared at the opening in the curtains, the medium
talking all the time at least six feet away from the forms. Two of these
forms were our own usual attendant angels, whose features are so well
known that we can recognise them immediately. One had a white crown
and veil, adorned by a splendid ruby jewel set as a star, and as a proof
of flexibility she moved her lips and spoke distinctly, “ Bless you all,”
at the same time making a sound as of kissing. I also saw that the
head gradually grew less in size at the second appearance, thus proving
unmistakably that it could not be a lay figure. Another form appeared
with a totally distinct head-dress and drapery, showing also what
appeared to be a gold cross. The third form was only partially
developed; though the outlines were clear, yet there were gaps quite
black or void, as if there was not sufficient power to complete the whole
form; the other two forms were somewhat indistinct, but still different
in size and character from the others. While the last form was at the
opening, the medium told us to pay particular attention, and that I was
to go behind the curtain; he put his head and shoulder
out in full view, the figure being still at the opening, when
the figure seemed to come right over his head and go into
his body. In a moment I rushed behind the curtain, and, drawing
them aside, I could discover absolutely nothing but the medium; in
the presence of the company I searched him, but found nothing which
could account for what we had witnessed. I had been sitting alone
with him in his bed-room for an hour previous to our both going down
together to the room where the meeting was held, and I am quite sure
he had nothing about his person. I think your readers will be puzzled
to know how or where he could have provided himself with the para¬
phernalia necessary for the production of these five “ solid ” notli mask ”
forms, and I certainly am not aware of any establishment in Manchester
where speaking figures can be bought or sold.
If what I have narrated is not sufficient to establish good test con¬
ditions, then I fail to understand what are, and my experience has
proved that any tests we can apply are worth but little in comparison
with those supplied by the invisible operators themselves.
But as for tests, the most pleasing and satisfactory were those
supplied in another way as follows:—
Dr. Monck came from Wakefield .direct to Manchester, and in the
eyeuing two w three friends wet with him, when of course the conver¬
sation naturally turned upon the subject of his incarceration; he
related to us his experiences and his treatment; his incarceration was
made as bearable as the regulations would permit, and by the discrimi¬
nating humane conduct of the governors and officials, no unnecessary
hardship was inflicted, of which the imprisoned one is duly mindful.
When such an individual has the inner consciousness of the overruling
providence of God, and the ministrations of angels, then even a prison
becomes sanctified and a holy place.
While Dr. Monck was repeating to us the story of his three month’s
sojourn, we were taken by surprise, as it was a literal fulfilment of the
things that had been told to us by a medium while in a state of uncon¬
scious trance, two months ago. Dr. Monck also stated that he had been
informed by his controlling spirit of certain incidents that had trans¬
pired with us, more especially of the death, and the manner of it, of
one nearly allied to myself, which occurred while he was in prison.
As I had taken down in writing at the time the communication above
referred to, the next evening I read the manuscript to Dr. Monck,
where surprise was as great as ours had been on the previous evening.
The description and position of his cell, together with the personages
who were more immediately in contact with him during his imprison¬
ment were accurately described, and more than all, the purpose to be
attained by his incarceration was unfolded. This, to our minds at least,
is eminently satisfactory.
For prudential reasons the details of these experiences are withheld;
but accepting the facts, I for one fail to find for their solution any other
theory than the simple one of ascribing to spiritual beings the power
which they claim to exercise in the production of all the various phe¬
nomena popularly known as Spiritualistic, in connection with scientific
and religious Spiritualism.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, May 14th, 1877.
A SEANCE IN THE SUNSHINE.
BY THE REV. C. MAURICE DAVIES, D.D.
[The following verses were read by the author, at one of his recent evening lectures to a
private audience at the residence of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.]
We sat mid the golden sunshine
Of a day in summer bright ;
And I said, “My pretty Sibyl,
Do ask the spirits to write.”
She asked. The spirits obeyed her ;
And you can understand
How very much better the writing,
When on Sibyl’s I laid my hand.
So I laid it. And above us
Some angel seemed to float,
While she wrote—but I’ll not tell you
The words that Sibyl wrote.
They were words all unforgotten,
Through many and many a year;
And will be unforgotten
While I dwell in this “ earth-sphere.”
Nay more, they were words potential
Throughout the longer life—
Words which told me that Sibyl
Would be my “ spirit-wife.”
Words—though I will not write them,
I remember every one.
Far before any Dark Circle
Was that seance in the sun.
So all investigators
Into the spirit-land,
Try a seance in the sunshine,
Guiding your Sibyl’s hand.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—On Thursday evening last week the ordinary
monthly session of the Council of the Dalston Association of Spiritualists
was held at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, with Mrs. Corner, vice-president,
in the chair. The other members present were Mr. John Rouse, Mrs.
M. T. Wood, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, and
Mr. Thomas Blyton. The minutes of last meeting of the council were
read and confirmed. Letters of general interest, received since, were
read from Mr. J. Mclsack and Signor Enrico Rondi. A presentation
from Dr. George Sexton was laid upon the table, and accepted with
thanks. An order was given for purchase of a reading-desk, for use of
lecturers. Letters were read from Mr, J. W. Fletcher, clairvoyant
trance test medium, of Boston, U.S.A., and his services were secured
for a series of three subscription stances, to be held at the association’s
rooms, on Wednesday evenings, the 16th, 23rd, and 30th inst. Printed
cards of admission for visitors to subscription seances, held under the
auspices of the association, were submitted and approved. The hon.
secretary was instructed to negociate with Mr. Eglinton for his services
at a test sSance on Thursday evening, the 28th June next. A paper
was proffered by Mr. John Rouse for Thursday evening, the 26 th July,
and was accepted. The council then adjourned.
231
May 18, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE INFLUENCE OF DIET. j j
BY W. H. HARRISON. . ;; J
[These lines were originally printed in Public Opinion, and are quoted here since the | j i
subject of the influence of diet occupies attention in this number of The Spiritualist.'] I >;
How many a happy though indolent hour, j )j
Do we pass o’er the pages of Scott, iji
Till we seem to live in the days of old, i j i
And the present is all forgot; I
For the air he peoples with life-like forms, jjj
And teems with fire his page, _ IH
As he leads by the power of his master mind j :
Through the scenes of a bygone age. | |
But the pages of Banting are sweeter by far, | j
’Tis nice o’er his writings to dwell; j j!
TTifl smiles for the lean and his tears for the fat j | j
Are kinder than mortal can tell; i (j
The lean ones of earth he envelopes in oil, j j
And warms with an unctuous fleece, j j
Whilst the lubberly man, the two-legged globe, j |
Is quickly distilled of his grease. j | j
Yet I hate the old man who could sit down and write i [ I
Such a volume on animal fat, | |
Who weighs himself every day in the scales, J j
Exclusive of coat, boots, and hat; j j
So cover him o’er with oblivion’s shroud, j i j
Then shelve him as fast as you can, j J i
And we’ll all of us drop a large marrowfat tear
O’er the grave of the greasy old man.
THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE I |
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND. |
Sir,—This Committee closed its labours on the 14th
instant, by passing the following report, and will be much j j
obliged if you will kindly publish it. j I
The Committee is now dissolved. A. Joy, Hon. Sec.
15th May, 1877. j j I
After upwards of thirty meetings, the Committee of the j j
Spiritualist Defence Fund are at length able to close their ! j
labours, and they now desire to offer their subscribers a very | j
brief outline of the work accomplished. The total amount 11
received by the treasurer was £874 10s. 3d., and the manner j j
in which it has been disbursed is shown in the appended [
statement of accounts, concerning which a few remarks are .! j
felt to be necessary. The advertising and printing charges j j
would have been considerably more than set down, had j
not the liberality of the proprietors of The Spiritualist j
and The Medium induced them to waive certain claims I
for work done. On the application of Dr. Monck’s com- j
mittee, a grant of £70 was made to that committee, j j
after sanction for sufficient appropriation had been obtained j
from certain subscribers to the fund. And on a like appli- j j
cation on behalf of Mr. Lawrence, a grant of £72 2s. | j
was made to his committee, also for legal expenses. Other j J
considerations apart, your committee was moved to make j j
these payments on the ground that these cases would furnish
valuable opportunities for the display in Court of much j i
general evidence favourable to the cause of Spiritualism, j j
But as the presiding judges permitted no digression, these j j
important expectations were unfortunately frustrated. Though I j
the sums paid to defend Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons are | |
considerable, your committee have the satisfaction of know- j j
ing that the efforts made on their behalf obtained a com- ! j
parative degree of success, for their liberty was at least I j
secured. It would have been lamentable if so distinguished | I
a medium as Dr. Slade had been cast into prison, especially i I
when we reflect that in order to meet his trial and to keep I j
faith with his bail he remained in this country for a con- ! |
siderable time, to his own serious inconvenience and loss, i j
both in money and health. To a peculiarly sensitive frame, j j
the thought alone of imprisonment was sufficient to shatter j j
his constitution, and render him delirious, and it became a j
matter of some difficulty to convey him safely to France j j
where he might recover. Your committee under these cir- j j
cumstances did their utmost to mitigate the evils to which | j
Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons and their families were ex- j I
posed, and contributed all in their power to render their | I
condition supportable. And when it is remembered that j j
nearly half , the amount of subscriptions came from the
American admirers of Dr. Slade, the application of a portion j i
of the funds to the purposes of his support can scarcely be j j
thought inappropriate; rather let us hope it will be regarded III
as a substantial tribute of sympathy from the subscribers in
addition to the testimonial with which he has been presented.
On behalf of the Committee,
Alex. Calder, Chairman.
THE SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
J. Enmore Jones and Dr. Wylcl, Treasurers.
From October Qth, 1876, to April QOth, 1877.
Dr.—April ZOth, 1877. £ s. d. £ s.
To Cash received from English and other Spiritu-
ualists 453 17 9
„ Do. from American do. ...    370 12 6
,, Do. from Russian do.   ... 50 0 0
-874 10
Cr.—April ZOth, 1877.
By Law Costs—Munton and Morris, Bow-street
proceedings 
Appeal   
Subsequent  
120 0 0
400 0 0
33 2 10
d.
3
 553 2 10
„ Cash paid Slade and Simmons   110 0 O
„ „ Ignatius Williams—watching ... ... 15 15 0
„ ,, Mr. Besley re Testimonial   ... 3 16 0
,, ,, Dr. Monck’s Committee ... ... ... 70 0 0
„ „ Mr. Lawrence’s   72 2 0
,, ,, Engrossing Testimonial, Dr. Slade  5 0 0
„ Sundries for Advertising, printing, postages, and
petty expenses   36 8 4
,, Balance in hand (for unsettled claims)  8 6 1
£874 10 3
We have examined the above account, and have seen vouchers for the
expenditure, and found it correct.—May 9th, 1877.
Morell Theobald, \
Public Accountant, > Hon. Auditors to the Fund.
H. Wedgwood, )
CURIOUS EXPERIMENTS WITH STEEL HANDCUFFS.
On Wednesday evening last week, at the invitation of
Miss Douglas, a few friends assembled to witness some facts
exhibited in the presence of Mr. Everett, of America, who
leaves the observers to form their own opinions as to the
cause thereof. Some steel handcuffs, with specially secure
fastenings, and which he had never seen before, were brought
by Mr. Serjeant Cox, who kept the keys in his possession, yet
the locked handcuffs were passed on and off the wrists of
Mr. Everett in a few minutes, while he was in the cabinet,
and they were furthermore taken off the rail of a chair. Mr.
Serjeant Cox’s report on the subject is printed in this
number of The Spiritualist. At the same sitting Dr.
Wyld and Mr. Serjeant Cox held Mr. Everett, hand and
foot, in his little cabinet, in the dark; they were then
touched by what felt like hands, and a guitar was played.
Subsequently, at a sitting in the light round a little, com¬
mon table, raps were plentiful, and the table was rendered
heavy or light as desired, for Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood,
Mr. Harrison, and others.
INVESTIGATORS’ SEANCES.
The usual weekly seance for investigators took place at 38, Great
Russell-street, on Thursday, the 10th inst. Owing to the illness of Mr.
Eglinton, who is generally the medium on these occasions, Mr. Chas. E.
Williams was invited to take his place. About fourteen persons were
present, including the medium, who took his place amongst the sitters
round the table. All joined hands, and the light was extinguished. For
some time we sat engaged in conversation and singing, before anything
occurred, and then knocks were heard proceeding from the cabinet,
which was at a distance of some eight or ten feet from the table.
Owing to the slight confusion caused by nearly all the sitters asking
questions at the same time, and no one waiting for the answers, it was
only arrived at, after half an hour or more, that certain changes were to
be made in the relative positions of the sitters. This accomplished, the
manifestations commenced almost immediately. Knocks were heard
upon the table, and soon the direct voice of “ Peter ” greeted many of
the sitters by name, in his usual cheerful and good-natured tones:
Lights were seen, the musical-box was wound up, and the little hand¬
bell and other instruments were floated about the room, occasionally
accompanied by a brilliant light. Most of the sitters were touched by
hands, and Peter’s voice was to be heard more or less throughout the
whole seance.
All that took place was of a most satisfactory and convincing nature,
as has always been my experience in the presence of this most excellent
and trustworthy medium.—-L. F. J.
I agree with the above.—Elizabeth Fitz-Gerald (for Seance Com¬
mittee).
6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, London.
On Monday evening a meeting, at which Lady Louisa and Mr.
Macgregor, Dr. King, Mr. and Mrs. Dinning, Mr. Thompson, and other
local Spiritualists and inquirers were present, was held at Mr. Snow’s,
18, Atlingworth-street, Brighton, to hear Mr. Wallace, the veteran
missionary medium.
232
T#E SPIRITUALIST.
May 18, 1877.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS *
BY THE REV. W. STAINTON-MOSES, M.A. (OXON.)
The risk of becoming discursive is so great, especially in
treating of a subject that is little understood, that T have
thought it best to reduce what I have to say to writing. In
the discussion held here a fortnight ago many valuable hints
were thrown out, but on the whole we did not arrive at any
definite issue.
Now it seems to me that almost all the the published
records of seances where form-manifestations occur, travel
over the same ground. We have statements more or less
exact of appearances more or less resembling the medium,
more or less clearly seen (generally the latter), and more or
less clearly proven to be separate entities. On the last point
I confess I have seen very little evidence that is satisfactory;
but I frankly admit that some evidence does seem to me to
be entirely conclusive.
It is always invidious to particularise any special accounts,
but, in the interests of the perplexed investigator, I may
perhaps be permitted to say what seems to me to be valuable
evidence, and to point out what seems to lack value in re¬
spect of conclusive proof. Having done so, I will shortly
specify some desiderata.
Before proceeding further it may be noticed that the forms
now usually produced are apparently different from those
which have been seen in the presence of Mr. Home and Mrs.
Jencken. The apparition of Mrs. Livermore, recorded by
Dale Owen, was produced without the aid of any cabinet,
and while the medium was in a normal state. There was,
therefore, no opportunity for the transfiguration or mesmeric
influence which seems occasionally to take the place of strict
materialisation.
Nor does it appear that the form was always of the same
solidity as those which now are presented. I have myself
witnessed with the same medium (Mrs. Jencken) a case of
form-presentation in which the figure was sufficiently solid
to obscure the light from an open window, and was plainly
perceptible to me as it bent over my chair; it also could draw
the curtains so as to pass into the next room, and it
could there press against the curtains, so as to cause them
to show an indentation such as would have been made by a
human form ; and yet that body was not the solid thing of
flesh and blood which I have seen and read of with other
medium's.
This presence, felt and perceived rather than seen and
handled, is a familiar one to me, and I take it to be another
and more incipient phase of materialisation. I have seen it
once in the presence of Mr. Home; and many will remember
descriptions of seances with him at which shadowy hands and
forms have been described. Mrs. Honywood described such
a seance in The Spiritualist not very long ago. Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall and others have done the same. I used
some four or five years ago to feel the same sense of a near
presence when John King appeared at Williams’ seances; but
that was when he was not visibly materialised. I have once
observed the same phenomenon with Miss Cook. We were
sitting in circle at her house, and Katie suddenly appeared
close to me so as to give that sense of a near 'presence. I
remarked upon it, and she at once spoke and touched me
with her hand. But I believe that that member was the
only solid part of her; her figure was plainly perceptible to me,
and her presence felt, but I do not think the form was what
I call materialised.
These cases I refer to another and more incipient stage of
materialisation.
The way in which ordinary seances for the production of
these form manifestations are now held is this. The medium
is placed out of view of the circle either in a cabinet or behind
a curtain; and either bound more or .less securely, or entirely
free. A very considerable and most desirable advance on
this plan is obtained in rare cases where the medium is in
full view during the sitting. Usually he is out of sight.
This method of investigation I earnestly hope to see abolished,
but for the present it obtains.
Under these conditions a form is frequently seen to issue
from the cabinet, or from behind the curtain. What evi¬
dence have we that it is a distinct and separate individuality
I | from the medium? In many cases it resembles him; in
ijj some it decidedly does not; in a vast number of cases the
| | light is not sufficient to enable an observer to say anything
I I on the question. The latter class of cases may at once be
|]| put out of court, for assuredly when a medium is so put out
| i of view the burden of proof that the form is distinct from
j; | himself rests on those who maintain that such is the case ;
j whether it resemble him or not is not much to the point.
| I We know that he is there. Before we can be fairly asked to
f! assume the existence of another body, formed we know not
| I how, we must be quite sure that he is there still, and that
|| we are really dealing with a separate and distinct entity.
I j It is not much to the point to say that the form presented
j ! to our view is different from his in garb, gesture, and tempera-
| | ment. We know—those of us who have studied the mes-
! j meric phenomena (and it is eminently to be desired that all
| | students of these psychical phenomena would first make
| I themselves familiar with the ordinary phenomena of mes-
[ merism)—we know, I say, that a controlling will ah extra
| j will so govern the actions of a sensitive, as to make him play
| any suggested part. Now since the medium is entranced
[ during these phenomena, the burden of proof that he is not
| j so influenced rests on those who maintain the distinct and
I | separate individuality of the form.
It is not enough, again, to say that the medium has been
Hj securely bound, and so is placed out of the question. This
is not so. A celebrated experiment of Mr. Crookes with
i Miss Cook demonstrates once and for ever that the power of
|| the controlling agencies is sufficient to free a medium from
I| any bonds that the ingenuity of man can devise.
What we require, therefore, is conclusive proof that the
| | medium is not unconsciously used, transfigured, transformed,
j ! or presented to our gaze so as to play a part. We know that
i he may be so used. Nay, we believe that the very ma-
j j terials for acting his part maybe supplied to him, and he,
| ! when the seance is over, be none the wiser.
|| What proof ought we to consider final?
Nothing, as it seems to me, short of a clear view of
| | medium and form at the same time, in light sufficient for
| I careful observation, and on repeated occasions. I dwell on
| | the latter point, for I find that reiterated evidence is
| | necessary to bring home to the mind so stupendous a fact as
| j this.
This proof has been obtained by fortunate individuals in
If some cases : and on them I confess my faith rests. I have
i|| not been able to secure personal proof, though I have had
iH evidence which makes very strongly for conviction. Among
|fj the clearest cases I would instance the experiments of Mr.
| I Adshead with Miss Wood, of Mr. Barkas at Newcastle, and
| | of Count de Bullet with Firman. In saying this I mean no
| | sort of disparagement to other investigators, especially to
|| I many friends in America whose facts are too numerous for
11| record.
I cannot take up your time by going through recorded
l| evidence. I must leave each mind to find its own flaws and
| | to draw its own conclusions. But I may shortly refer to a
| I paper by Mr. O’Sullivan, in The Spiritualist of May 4th last.
I | There are points there which seem to me very conclusive.
| | First of all, the Count de Bullet holds his seances on th.®
j I only successful principles—regularly (every day at noOn)
| | with conditions not needlessly varied, and with patience.
| | His results are correspondingly good. For instance, Mr.
| | O’Sullivan speaks of “ four forms seen at a time, with Fir-
||| man asleep.” This in one’s own rooms is, I think, con-
||i elusive.
One form is not conclusive, unless the medium be seen
| | too: one form, under conditions which preclude personation,
| r cannot be set aside. Again, Mr. Adshead’s cage: Mr. Bar-
| j kas’ undressing and redressing the medium in a room to
| I which he never had access; these, and other experiments,
jjj too, place the question on a secure basis. Only I always
| i feel a sort of mental irritation that so much time and pre-
| | caution should be wasted simply because the medium is so
| | jealously secluded. That prevents us from investigating the
| | crucial question—What is it?
In a given case, is it the medium presented in mesmeric
| | trance and playing a part? or is it himself transfigured ? or
| | is it the transference of a being from the plane of spirit to
the plane of matter? or is it a separate creation? or is it
* A paper read last Monday at a oieetiug of the National Association of Spiritualists,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
S33
May IS, 1877.
the transference of energy from the medium so that another
shadowy form is built up out of his vital forces?
I profess myself unable to tell, and I grumble that I never
shall be able to tell so long as the present methods of in¬
vestigation are insisted on. I can get stray glimpses. Mr.
O’Sullivan, for instance, speaks of faces imperfectly made,
“ faces visible only in parts or spots, with black blotches ”—
half-formed, in fact. This leads to the conclusion that the
process is one of building up, which is sometimes imper¬
fectly performed.
But sometimes the form presents itself almost before the
medium is in his place, and is suggestive of the transference
by some instantaneous process of a being from another plane
of existence to ours.
Then again, as in Mr. Adshead’s experiments, the form
grows up before the observer’s eyes, and is framed before
him, and again sinks into nothingness as he gazes at it.
The balance of evidence seems to be in favour of a building
up of a new being. But, whether by withdrawal of energy
from the medium, so that it is (so to say) bone of his bone,
and flesh of his flesh, or whether by some occult process
whereby material is formed in the atmosphere, and is conso¬
lidated temporarily and afterwards dissipated, I am entirely
unable to say.
I have stated what, as I think, has been arrived at. It is
little enough, and we may be thoroughly ashamed that, after
all these years, it is so little. But I am in hopes that the
way is paved for more and closer investigation. Surely
none will say that an allegation so portentious should be
accepted without the most conclusive evidence. Surely we
are within our right in asking for proof that no fair man
can set aside.
To this end there are certain desideranda:—
1. The abolition of the cabinet.
It is desirable to see the medium, for reasons already pointed out. It
is very desirable, too, to make experiments with him, so as to show his
exact physical condition while the manifestations are going on.
2. If this be considered a too stringent measure of reform, it is
absolutely necessary that the medium should be so placed as to enable
any selected member of the circle to enter the cabinet, and testify that
the medium is in his place.
This, however, I regard only as a tentative step to the abolition
altogether of the cabinet.
3. Some experiments should be conducted with the form. As yet
nothing has been done, or, at any rate, published. It is only by such
means that we can hope to solve the perplexing questions which meet
one at every turn in this most perplexing phenomenon.
4. - More feasible, perhaps, is the suggestion of Mr. Harrison, that a
series of experiments should be conducted with the medium, so as to
test his variations of temperature and pulse. This would have a special
bearing on the question of withdrawal of energy. I have seen a medium
after severe strain from a long sSance, during which pronounced physical
manifestations took place, bend over as though the spinal column had
not power to support the body. His hands at that time were cold and
dead; and I think his pulse would have been found to be faint and
flickering. “Virtue had gone out of him.” What was that “virtue ” ?
Vital energy in some form, no doubt. How had it been used9 How
transformed ?
It is for science, by exact experiment, to answer these and
similar questions.
Impediments to Scientific Investigation.-—One or more of the
recent prosecutions of mediums originated in the desire and intention
of fettering scientific research, by feeding the prejudices of the un¬
informed against a new truth. To escape malicious attacks of the
kind, the Ralston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism has, after
obtaining legal advice, adopted the following form of ticket of admission
to its seances:—“Ralston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism
(Established 1870). Subscription Seance. Declaration:—This ticket
admits the undersigned to a stance, to be held at , with Mr. ,
on evening, the , 18—, at o’clock, to witness such occur¬
rences as may take place in presence. But it is expressly declared
that the causes or sources of such occurrences, spiritual or otherwise,
are in no way asserted, and the undersigned visitor must form his own
judgment upon them. The production of phenomena of any kind is not
guaranteed. I, the undersigned, hereby accept the terms of admission
to the above-mentioned seance as being that no occurrences or pheno¬
mena are warranted to happen, and that the causes or sources of any¬
thing that may be witnessed by me are not in any way affirmed to me
by the Association or by M  as spiritual or from any unknown
cause, and that I am required to form my own judgment as to the
origin and nature of whatever may be presented to or witnessed by me.
The undersigned is introduced as a visitor, in accordance with the Con¬
stitution and Rules, by a member of the Association, M , and is
required to observe the “ Seance Regulations ” printed on back of this
card. The member introducing the undersigned visitor will be held
responsible for the visitor’s conduct, Signature 
I THE “ FOUNRATIONS.”
! (j BY G. F. GREEN, AUTHOR OF ONE OF THE PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE NATIONAL
j (i ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
I (j “If the reviews and facts of the day have in any way shaken the standing-
i ji ground of the Christian is it not his first and most obvious duty to make a
i 11 humble and most searching scrutiny of the foundations.”—Mr. Gladstone's
I?! Letter to the Editor ofli Liverpool”
ji Undoubtedly it is a grave question whether the founda-
| j tions of the Christian religion are broad and strong enough
I ji to support all the superstructure of creed and dogma which
I has been erected upon them since the first architect laid
I | the corner stone. But a more important matter still, in
i | the present attitude of the thinking world, is to know
| | whether there are any real foundations at all—to be able
|(| to define them, and to distinguish them from the rotten
; j props which disfigure and can no longer help to support
I | the edifice of Christianity. It is the special mission—or
| | I had better say the special result—of Spiritualism to throw
I | a light on the foundations of religious belief which have
| j long been buried out of sight. Not only is it the most
I j obvious duty of the Christian who feels his standing-ground
I j| shaken to examine these things, but it is the duty of every
| | Christian to do so, and not to put forward on public occasions,
| I and even from Christian pulpits, those decayed props which
I i the merest tyro in philosophy can knock down, and which
j j afford the enemy such abundant reason to blaspheme. I am
I i ashamed to call myself a Christian when I go to church and
| j hear the shallow arguments and false conclusions that are
i j often set up under the banner of the Christian religion.
Without attempting to prove every point, it may afford
| j some help to others who are scrutinizing the (l foundations,”
I I if I give the conclusions I have arrived at. There appear to
I I me only two foundations for any religious belief: (1) Per-
| | sonal spiritual experience^ i.e.f direct communion with a
I j| supreme being, or superhuman beings. (2) Authority, i.e.,
| j the authentic experience of others. Of these two, the latter,
| j though superimposed on the former, is of the more impor-
| j tance, because of its greater surface and extent. Both of
| j religion and science our knowledge may be compared to a
I j globe resting upon a plane. Its foundation is the point of
i | individual consciousness resting upon some eternal sub-
j j stratum which we cannot understand. The next layer in the
I j story is wider, and the next wider still, until we reach the
j full diameter of our accumulated beliefs. They are nearly
| (j all (whether in science or religion) made up of authority, or
I I founded upon it, and there is nothing firmer or surer to
j I build upon except the mere “ point ” called personal expe-
j j rience. Authority, then, is a most important—nay, the
I I most important part of the foundations of religious belief;
|| but here I must make a distinction, or I shall be
i ! misunderstood. The greatest hindrance to the advance-
I j ment of religious knowledge, next to the denial of all autho-
| | rity, is the belief that any authority is infallible. I fear
|j| this belief will take a long time to overthrow. It is a
jl habit of childhood to regard all knowledge as absolute and
| j| unconditional certainty, and the habit clings tenaciously to
j | many minds. Surely authority has enough influence upon
| | ordinary men, without being bolstered up by such a mon-
|j| strous assumptiou as infallibility ! What should we say if
| jl a doctor or professor of physical science were to claim infalli-
|j| bility for his theories ? This assumption of infallibility, be
I j| it for Pope, Church, or Book, is not a firm foundation, but a
|j| rotten prop, which had better be removed. What does it
|j| rest upon? It must rest ultimately upon some man’s
ijj assertion, and generally it will be found to proceed rather
j(j from the implicit faith of the disciple than the teachings of
I j the master. Mahommed asserted that the separate frag-
I I ments of the Koran were delivered to him by the angel
I I Gabriel, and his disciples believed him. We have no
j | stronger external evidence of the divine origin of the Bible
|j| than of the Koran. It is time that Spiritualists should
| | openly disavow the exclusive narrowness of all churches,
j| whether Catholic or Protestant, Christian or Pagan, which
Ij claim infallibility as the foundation of their creeds. May
| it not be said without irreverence, that the time has come
| when we should seek to found a science or philosophy of
| religion, based upon the broad authority of spiritual expe-
| rience in all ages, interpreted by the light which is given to
I every man ?
234
THE S PI El TU A LIST.
May 18, 1877.
All authority must be subject to the exercise of private
judgment. If we accept the Bible as the highest and purest
revelation of divine truth, yet it has been poured into
earthen vessels, and “ emptied from vessel to vessel.”
Therefore it cannot be accepted as pure and living water,
though proceeding from a divine spring. Else why the need
of a new translation ? But we have to consider not only
the channels through which this revelation has come down
to us, but also to go farther back and to consider the vessels
it was originally poured into, and in the last place its
origin.
Then shall we come to the real foundations of the Chris¬
tian religion. To any but a Spiritualist the mode of inspi¬
ration—the way in which the thoughts of Holy Writ were
embodied in their present form—must be a dark and
perplexing problem.
Were the writers conscious or unconscious of the use they
were put to? How were they made aware that their
guidance was divine ? Was it divine in any other sense
than all actions which spring originally from the source of
life in whom we live, and move, and have our being ?
These are the questions involved in the necessary com¬
parison of authorities, and which must be strictly answered
before anything like a rational “ foundation ” can be
arrived at.
If it be said that in casting adrift from the old mooring
of an infallible word of God we are launching upon an
Unfathomable sea of doubt, let us reflect whether better
proof of a God is afforded by any human tradition than
may be arrived at by the study in our own souls of the
“ power which makes for righteousness ? ” Whether there
can be any stronger basis for the belief in a spiritual
existence after death than the recorded experience of all
ages, corroborated by our own if we will take the trouble to
acquire it?
These two beliefs, coupled with the knowledge of future
rewards and punishments self-earned, which is their natural
corollary, are the strong and unassailable foundations of
“ natural religion,” and will prove sufficient to bear the
weight of human hopes, and aspirations, and woes, when
the infallibility of pope and priest, church and book, are
relegated to their proper place amongst the fables and
mythologies of the past.
A RAT-EATING SEER.
BY SIR CHARLES ISHAM, BART.
The late William Dring, of Gotham, near Nottingham,
rat-catcher, whose rat-eating propensities I allude to in my
little poem “ What shall we eat?” was a very remarkable
seer. Although Dr. Elliotson was not at the time (1852) a
believer in spiritual phenomena, he readily inserted a full
account I wrote for the Zoisb^ vol. ix., p. 55, from which it
appears he had seen at least a hundred of his acquaintances
at about the time of their death, before or after. In the
night they would produce a sensation as if walking lightly
over him, and when a boy he had been beaten by his father
for disturbing him in the night.
His mother and others of the family had the same faculty.
A similar case is to be found in John Wesley’s Journal^
and is reprinted in the Spiritual Magazine, vol. i., p. 120.
The death of Dring from drinking too much beer at a rat
pie feast is also recorded in the Zoist, vol. x., p. 120.
Lamport Hall, Northampton, May 14th, 1874.
At the next soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists, June
6.th, Miss Ella Dietz and Mr. F. Dietz will give poetical recitations from
Mrs. Browning and Alfred Tennyson.
Mr. Fletcher at Mrs. Weldon’s Social Meetings.—Next Monday
night Mr. Fletcher, the American medium, will give a short trance
address at one of Mrs. Weldon’s weekly concerts, at the Langham-hall,
Portland-street, and the payments for admission will go to the support
of the Orphanage. The proceedings of the evening will begin at eight
o’clock. If, instead of a trance address, Mr. Fletcher could give to a
large audience the evidence of spirit identity which he does to a small
one, he would awaken considerable interest. Miss Myrtle Boone, who
last Monday gave an able address on “ The Elevation of Labour,” will
next Monday recite “The Stage-Struck Daughter.” The music and
singing will, as usual, he of high quality. Mr. Mayall, of 244, Regent-
street, has taken several good portraits of Mrs. Weldon, with her
little pupil Katie; copies of these will be sold for the benefit of the
Qrphanage,
§1EVERETTISM.”
| BY EDWARD W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW, PRESIDENT OP THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
In my desire to learn the contrivances by which the alleged
| phenomena of Spiritualism are produced I paid a visit to the
I so-called expose of Mr. Everett, at 22, Woburn-place, Russell-
| square.
I need not detail the many remarkable conjurations per-
| formed, my purpose being to narrate one which certainly far
| surpasses anything exhibited by Maskelyne and Cooke.
At the first visit a pair of handcuffs was put upon him,
I and the key held by myself. In six minutes his coat was
| taken off; in two minutes more my coat was upon his back;
| in seven minutes the chair on which he sat was hung by one
of the rounds to the handcuffs, which throughout these
doings were closed upon his wrists.
But these handcuffs were his own, and it might be fairly
conjectured in some way prepared for the purpose. I asked
if I might place upon him handcuffs brought by myself. He
' readily consented.
Accordingly I borrowed from the prison at Clerkenwell
two pairs of handcuffs which I was assured in plain language,
f the devil himself could not get out of.” One of them was
of very special make, not closing with a clasp, but requiring
a key to open and close it by means of a double screw,
whose effect was that it could be opened or shut only by its
own key, and that of so peculiar a make that no other could
be used. It was a special structure to secure an extraordi¬
nary criminal. The other pair of handcuffs was of the usual
form, closing with a spring, but when closed it could not be
opened by any other key than its own.
Armed with these two formidable instruments, which had
safely held in durance vile many hundreds of criminals, I
called upon Mr. Everett. To my surprise he instantly con¬
sented to my using them in any manner I pleased.
The suggestion I had heard by others who had witnessed
the handcuff feat was, that he must have so small a hand
that he could draw it out and replace it with great rapidity.
As this was not impossible, however improbable, instead of
putting them upon his hands, I fastened both pairs of hand¬
cuffs to the round of his chair, securely locking them, and
putting the keys into my pocket. I timed him throughout.
In five minutes the handcuffs were taken from the round of
the chair, and placed upon his wrists, one of each pair being
round each wrist, and the others of the two pairs linked
together. All were securely locked as before. In this con¬
dition, in sixteen seconds, his coat was taken off. In twenty-
two seconds a handkerchief, handed by a visitor, was knotted
into nine curious knots, which it took him five minutes to
untie. I then proposed to take the handcuffs off with the keys,
but he suggested that trial should be made if the power that
put them on could not take them off. In eighteen seconds they
were taken off, unlinked, and thrown upon the floor still un¬
opened.
There is much besides that is remarkable, but none so
perplexing as this.
He does not call it Spiritualism. He requests the visitor
to form his own judgment, and he submits to any tests. He
calls it Everettism, and perhaps that is the best name for it.
By no straining of the law could it be called “ palmistry,”
nor the exhibitor be subjected to the Vagrant Act.
I may add that Inspector Day has put upon him three
pairs of handcuffs at once, and a chair has been hung upon
them, his coat taken off, and the visitor’s coat put on.
The exposure of Spiritualism in Piccadilly is not to be
compared with this exhibition of Everettism. Everybody
should see it.
36, Russell-square, May 12, 1877..
At the last meeting of the Council of the National Association of
Spiritualists it was resolved to print and circulate with next month’s
agenda the annual report, together with a list of the members of the
Association and their annual subscriptions, excepting those who have
signified their desire that their names should not be published.
A water-colour painting by Madame Ronniger, “ The Apotheosis of
St. Cecilia,” is on view at the Rooms of the National Association of
Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London. The subject is treated iu
a highly Spiritualistic manner, and the execution is both refined and
powerful. Madame Ronniger is editress of the JEsthetic Review, and is
well known as a talented musician, lecturess, and art critic.
May 18, 1877.
THE SPIEITITALIST.
235
“TWO GIFTS.”
BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
“What can I do for Thee, ray dearest Lord,
Who died for me ?
What shall I bring from out my store of wealth.
To offer Thee l
I nothing have, but what Thy love bestowed
To ease life’s pain.
All came from Thee—yet, if Thou wilt, receive
Thy gifts again!
Shall I lay down before Thy Blessed Feet
My powers of mind ?
No greater joy than to submit them thus
My soul could find !
Dost Thou require the faithful love of years,
The tender care
With which sweet Friendship has enriched my life l
Then do not spare !
Or wouldst recall the strength of which I boast l
It is but lent.
Let Thy command be known, Thy servant’s voice
Shall not dissent.
Or dost Thou crave as sacrifice from me
My paltry wealth ?
Lord ! Take my powers, my comfort, and my means,
My will, my health 1
All came from Thee—all by Thy mercy given,
Are still Thine own.
Strip me of earthly good, so I retain
Thy love alone ! ”
“ My servant! What are these thy gifts to me ?
Am I not God?
And shall I cause thee needlessly to pass
Beneath My rod?
Keep thou thy mind; cherish the friends I gave—
The health—the gain :
Each boon was sent to draw thee nearer Heaven ;
Let each remain !
But search thy heart: its fealty I claim
As Royal Right,
And say if thy desire to serve, thy Lord
Will bear the light!
Hast thou in truth brought forward of thy best
To give to Me ?
Is there no treasure hidden in thy heart
More prized by thee ?
I am the First! Thou canst not all deceive
By word or deed :
Hold nothing back lest I withhold My love
In thy great need!’’
“ O ! Lord, I do indeed confess my sin :
The best of all
Thy gifts lies yet concealed within my breast,
And at Thy call
My bosom throbs, it bounds beneath the dread
Of parting nigh,
Yet, Saviour ! if Thou wilt, take even that—
And let me die!
Is it his precious life Thou dost require ?
I hide my eyes,
Do Thy great Will—but spare my feeble sight
The Sacrifice.
Not that! My weary days then must be spent
Apart from his!
Severed our lives, but at Thy word I can
Bear even this. 5
Yet insufficient! From Thine eyes I read
The stern decree,
Another shall enjoy the dear delights
Denied to me!
Tby Hand is still unclosed—there yet remains
More to resign :
O! Lord, not his dear love—that love which I
Believed was mine!
Try every means Thy sovereign Will may deign
My faith to prove !
<S
!
(
(
Oh ! take his life—his presence—and himself,
Spare me his love!”
ft My altar waits to sanctify thy gift,
Do thou the rest;
Make thine own choice—be faithful to thyself—
I ask thy best!”
“ Lord ! I am Thine, Thy creature, and Thy slave,
The deed is done:
Receive his love—receive my broken heart,
Two gifts in oue.”
THE PERSONAL IDENTITY OF COMMUNICATING SPIRITS.
A SEANCE WITH MR. J. W. FLETCHER.
Last Tuesday afternoon about a dozen ladies and gentlemen assembled at
the rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, to witness trance manifestations through the medium-
ship of Mr. J. W. Fletcher, of the United States.
The medium arrived about five minutes before the seance began; he was
not introduced to anybody, and most of those present were strangers to him.
No intimation had been given to him in advance, as to who had been invited.
He passed into the trance state, and after giving a short address was con¬
trolled by what claimed to be an Indian spirit of the name of “ Winona,”
who professed to obtain information, under difficulties, from the departed
friends of the sitters present, which information she, through the medium,
conveyed to the particular person in earth-life, for whom it was intended. No
“ leading questions ” were put by the listeners, nor was anything said to give
any clue to Winona. '«
Under these conditions the controlling intelligence told M. Gustave de
Yeh, of Dresden, that he (M. de Yeh) was a freemason, and that a spirit
who in earth-life had been much higher in masonry than himself desired to
communicate with him; furthermore the name of the said spirit, which was
a foreign and peculiar one, was given. M. de Yeh said that .all this was
true, and that he believed that nobody in the room but himself had been pre-
viously aware of the facts stated.
The communicating intelligence then turned to Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E., of 6, Loughborough-road-North, Brixton, and told him that
somebody of the name of “ Robert ” wished to speak to him, and that the
said Robert had brought Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s little sister with him; the latter
wished to communicate not only with her brother, but with her mother, who
was also present. Mr. and Mrs. Fitz-Gerald said that all this was true, and
that subsequent revelations made to them in the same way, related to impor¬
tant private matters unknown to anybody outside their own family.
Miss Kislingbury, secretary to the National Association of Spiritualists, was
next told that her father was present; Winona further said that she saw a
lady who was spelling her name to her—“ E-d>m-i-s-t-o-nher husband was
with her, and they were both asking about their “ Katie,” who was still in
earth life ; they held up two or three fingers to show that they had been only
two or three years in the spirit world. They seemed to be “ near ” each other
in a spiritual sense. They said that Miss Kislingbury had often visited them
at their home, and they wished to state that they had received a bright reward
for the work they had done below in connection with Spiritualism. They had
a communication to give to their Katie, who had too many people advising her;
they wished very much to give her some advice for themselves. They further
said:—
Dear Friends in the earth life,—We have made many attempts, hut have hitherto been
unable to communicate with you, although we know that , you often think of us in the
spirit world. Know this from us, that all things are governed by the law of justice, and
that the only way by which men can find happiness in spirit-life is by acting out properly
the life on the earth below, by doing the best they can at each moment of time. Are we
happy do you say ? Bless your hearts! Yes! And our happiest time is when we can meet
you thus together.
The above address is highly characteristic of the late Mr. and Mrs. Edmis-
ton, of Beckenham, Kent, who were most faithful and kindly workers in the
cause of Spiritualism.
Next, the communicating intelligence said that a lady present had a son
who was an accomplished musician. Mrs. Speer admitted that this was
herself, upon which the spirit said—“ Please give the following message to the
doctor,” meaning thereby Dr. Stanhope Temploman Speer.
' A gentleman present was told that his wife strongly objected td Spirit¬
ualism, and somewhat hindered him in his investigation thereof. He ad¬
mitted this to be true.
Mr. Harrison was then informed that his father and mother were present,
and that they at a future time would communicate with him in such a way
that no question could arise in his mind but that he was really talking to
them. Mr. Harrison said that it was true that his father and mother had both
departed this life.
Winona told a lady from Monmouthshire that a spirit of the name of
“ George ” wished to speak to her, after which the entranced medium
whispered a message in her ear ; she said that the communication was par¬
tially accurate.
About a week ago Mr. Fletcher gave a seance to the Dalston Society of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, and Mr. Blyton, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Cook, and
Signor Rondi, have expressed to us their satisfaction with the evidence of
spirit identity then given to various sitters. We first met Mr. Fletcher a
fortnight ago, at the house of Mrs. Weldon, where he gave an admiral present,
whom he had never seen before, some particulars of his past life, and of the
expeditions which he had commanded, which statements were admitted to
be all of them true.
Mr. Fletcher’s mediumship seems to supply a want which has long been
felt in this country, namely, communications giving strong presumptive
evidence of the personal identity of the communicating spirits.
Dr. Hooker, President of the Royal Society, spoke of Spiritualism at the
Royal Academy dinner as i! the prevalent superstition.”
Last Monday evening there was a large attendance at the rooms of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, at the adjourned discussion on
“ Form Manifestations.” A report will be published in these pages next week.
There are full attendances every Sunday at St. James’s Church, Westmore¬
land-street, near Portland-place, London, to listen to the ministrations of the
Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A., whose regular congregation is largely composed of
Spiritualists. The church is too small for the congregation.
$36
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 18, 1877,
IDENTIFIED SPIRIT FORMS.* : j
BY BENJAMIN COLEMAN. I j
As you have asked me to take part in the discussion on jj
spirit forms, I cheerfully comply with your request by j
writing what I have to say instead of taking my place in |
open discussion, for which I regret I do not now feel equal. !
I am aware, however, that anything I have to say will be |)
to many of the readers of your excellent journal but “ a |
thrice-told tale,” yet I have no doubt, as you assure me, i
that the majority have never heard, but in the most casual I
way, of the records I made, now some sixteen years ago, of, |
probably, the best attested case of “ Spirit Form Identity” I
that has yet been made public—I mean that of Mr. Charles !
F. Livermore’s wife, through the mediumship of the well- j
known medium, Miss Catherine Fox. . j
Let me premise, for the information of those who are now j
taking a prominent position in the Spiritual movement, that If
after several years’ experience in this country I made a trip, j
in 1861, to America, for the purpose of fortifying my judg- H
ment by personal intercourse with the leading Spiritualists |
on that side of the Atlantic, including, among many others, |
Judge Edmonds, Professor James Moffat, Epes Sargent, I
and Dr. John F. Gray. On the first evening after my |
arrival at New York, I went, as a perfect stranger, to one jj
of the weekly conferences of Spiritualists held at Clinton j);
Hall, and heard from the lips of the latter gentleman a j j
statement of a series of phenomena which entirely surpassed I j
anything I had previously seen, or even heard of. Dr. Gray, I I
who occupied the platform, said that the wonderful facts he ! j
should narrate occurred within the previous two or three | j
weeks to a personal and intimate friend of his, who was j |
disconsolate about the loss of his wife, and whom he had j j
induced to look into Spiritualism. Little did he imagine ij I
that his friend’s experience would soon surpass his own. HI
His friend, whose name he regretted he could not divulge, I j
occupied a high position in the commercial world, and was a j j
man whose statements were absolutely to be relied upon.
The following is a brief sketch of one of the first seances, j j
as described by Dr. Gray
“When the light was extinguished, some person, as if j 1
walking in stocking-feet, was heard, accompanied by the j j
rustling of a silk dress; then it was rapped out—‘ My dear, ; I
I am here in form; do not speak.’ A globular light then j j
rose up from the floor behind me, and as the light became | j
brighter a face surrounded by a crown was distinctly seen by j j
the medium and myself. Next, the entire head appeared, in
covered with a white veil. After the figure had risen some j j
feet higher, the veil was withdrawn, and I then recognised j j
unmistakeably the full head and face of my wife, surrounded in
by a semi-circle of light, about eighteen inches in diameter, j j
The recognition was complete, derived alike from the fea- j j j
tures and her natural expression. The globe was then l l
raised, and a female hand held before it was distinctly I j
visible. Each of these manifestations was repeated several j j
times, as if to leave no doubt in our minds. Now, the j j
figure coming lower down, and, turning its head, displayed, j j
falling over the globe of light, long, flowing hair, which, j j
even in its shades of colour, appeared like the natural j j
tresses of my wife, and, like hers, was unusually luxuriant.” ! j
Another seance was described by Dr. Gray, and in the jjj
discussion which arose, not one of the speakers, except I j
myself, could accept the statements made by him. I said j \ j
“that marvellous and unprecedented as the phenomena jjj
undoubtedly were, I could receive them on sufficient testi- jjj
mony. The only thing to be regretted was that manifesta- j j j
tions so extraordinary should have been witnessed by only jjj
one person besides the medium, and that that one should j j
withhold his name from the world.” These remarks, made j j
at the close of the meeting, made me at once acquainted jj:
with the anonymous gentleman himself, and if no other I j
circumstance had occurred in the course of my inquiries, I j
the result of this acquaintance would have been to me a j j
sufficient reward for my visit to America. He was seated j j
during the whole evening, it appeared, at my side, and like i) j
myself he was unacquainted with any one present. Upon my j I
rising to depart, this stranger presented his card—Mr. Chas. I j
F. Livermore, 41, Wall-street—and asked the favour of jjj
making my acquaintance, saying that he was the person
alluded to by Dr. Gray, and he should be glad to satisfy me
of the reality of his strange experiences. Thus commenced an
intimacy which continued from that day up to 1866, during
which period Mr. Livermore kept up an active correspondence
with me, telling me of all the new developments which were
constantly occurring, and which, taken as a whole, I believe
form the most complete history of spirit manifestations on
record.
In the first letter which I received from Mr. Livermore, he
said:—
“ We have now arrived at that point where cards are written upon
by the spirit.
“The tirst of this kind, headed Friday, May 3rd, 1861, was most
carefully and correctly written, and the identity of my wife’s hand¬
writing proved conclusively by minute comparison.
fS The spirit, style, and handwriting, are positive proofs to my mind
of the identity of the writer, if other more convincing proofs still,
which I have had, were left entirely out of the question.”
The next letter I give in detail, as it suggests questions
worthy of consideration: —
New York, June 24,1861.
You are no doubt correct in saying that anonymous statements carry
less weight than when attested by a respectable signature. In my case,
however, the credibility of the witness can be proved, first by your
own testimony, as well as by that of Dr. Gray, to whom I am well
and intimately known.
And here permit me to say, that I regard Dr. Gray’s opinions on
Spiritual Science as entitled to perhaps greater weight than those of
almost any prominent Spiritualist in this country. He is strongly
opposed to what he considers the too prevailing confidence in spiritual
identities. Dr. Gray fully understands the practical nature of my
investigations. How I have receded, step by step, from a state of
thorough scepticism, and therefore he attaches importance to facts
so important, which he knows are free from exaggeration.
My earnest desire was, above all, not to be deceived myself, and
now that my faith is impregnable, I wish to keep it pure by a strict
adherence to positive truth. From the first I have kept records, includ¬
ing the states of the atmosphere, direction of the wind, &c. My
experiences and observations prove that the electric conditions, both
of the atmosphere and of the persons receiving manifestations, are, if
possible, more important and subtle than mental conditions. I find
that a perfect manifestation can only be received under a combination
of favourable, mental, physical and atmospheric conditions. A north
wind and clear sky are both desirable '; but the greatest electric pheno¬
mena (of lights) witnessed by me was during a snow-storm, when the
atmosphere had become highly electrical by the action of the falling
particles of moisture suddenly congealed by an extraordinary change of
temperature to intense cold.
Our atmosphere, as you are aware, is ordinarily dry, whilst yours
is surcharged with moisture ; and I am satisfied that it would be
difficult, if not impossible, to obtain as perfect manifestations in
London as in New York.
As Miss Fox says she has never received such powerful ones with
any other person, it would be perhaps proper for me to state that
my condition has always been highly electrical. The combing of my
hair elicits electrical sparks in profusion in dry weather,* and I find
no difficulty in lighting the gas by applying the end of my finger to
the burner, after having excited the electricity in my system by the
friction of my feet upon the carpet. This, however, is not an un¬
common occurrence here, but I have repeatedly tried it in England
without success. I give you these facts, because I think it important
to look at all the means, by which spirits are probably enabled to
produce wonderful phenomena without transcending the laws of
Nature.
You ask me if I believe that all the manifestations which occur to
me are from one spirit. Most certainly not, for it has been repeatedly
explained, and I think proved, that the spirit of my wife made itself
visible to me through the powerful aid of other spirits. The startling
noises of which I have spoken, were made, I believe, by others for
the purpose of exciting the nervous system and throwing off from
the body of the medium and myself the electric fluid, which is then
seized upon and made available by the will of the active spirit. This
is my theory, gathered entirely from observation.
On the occasion of the first appearance of my wife’s spirit I was
told that the spirit of Benjamin Franklin had aided in producing the
electrical phenomena by means of which the spirit was made visible
to me. From that time he has (by raps) invariably announced his
presence. His identity, however, it has been impossible for me to
prove except upon his own statement confirmed by my wife. But her
identity has been established beyond the shadow of a doubt. First by
her appearance, second by her handwriting, and third by her mental
individuality, to say nothing of other numerous tests which are con¬
clusive in ordinary cases, but upon none of which have I relied
except as corroborative evidence.”
In this letter it will be seen that the spirit-wife told Mr.
Livermore, on the first evening she presented herself, that the
spirit of Benjamin Franklin had aided her, and in subse¬
quent messages it was promised that Franklin himself would
appear in form; this was realised some months after, and
* A paper read last Monday night at a meeting of the members and friends of the
National Association of Spiritualists.
* A similar statement is made by the Key. 0. H. Towushend in his Facts in Mesmerism,
May 28, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
237
subsequently Dr. Gray and Mr. Livermore’s brother I
witnessed the full form manifestations of both the wife and |
Dr. Franklin.
LIFE.
I send with this two cards written upon by each of the
spirits, that written by the wife is one of several which were
sent home, and we have Mr. Livermore’s distinct asseveration
more than once repeated, that the writing is identical with
that of his wife.
That written by Dr. Franklin is, as you will see, totally
different, and no doubt some of your readers will be able to
find, in the British Museum, a specimen of his original
writing in life.
I have never sought for it there, but shortly after the
receipt of the cards I went to the Reform Club, and there
I saw his signature attached to the scroll of American In¬
dependence, which hangs in the stranger’s room of the club,
or did hang there fifteen years ago, and I thought the signa¬
ture singularly like that on the card. I send you also two
sheets containing lithographed fac-simile letters of both
Franklin’s and Estelle’s, for the inspection of those who are
interested.
Now, with regard to the whole series of manifestations
witnessed by Mr. Livermore, I have to remark that they are
entirely different from anything we.have yet seen in this coun¬
try, and also different to most of those which have been
spoken of within the last three or four years in America.
There are evidently therefore two kinds of form manifesta¬
tions. Here let me say that Mr. Livermore is wrong in
supposing that his is the only case of that nature, for there
was one at least of a very similar character which happened,
I believe through the same medium about the s ame time,
which has never been made public; but, as I have said,
nothing of that kind has occurred here. One important
difference is that the medium in the one case was always
in her normal state, never entranced, but very sensitive, and
occasionally marring the efforts of the spirits by her natural
excitement as these forms developed; she thus, to a certain
extent, prevented for a time the most perfect of the mani¬
festations.
I have always looked forward to the time, now at hand,
when men superior to myself would feel obliged to examine
and who, after recognising what I have been accustomed to
call Spiritualism, and the reality of the phenomena, would
prove the mysteries which I and many others have recorded.
In my way I think that I have faithfully performed my part in
the spiritual movement. But you, with higher educational
advantages, who are now engaged in attempting to unravel
the mystery which enshrouds the subject of spiritual mani¬
festations, have a higher and much more difficult task to
accomplish. I feel, however, that you who are discussing the
subject and acknowledging the reality of spirit-forms, are on
the right road, though the settling in your own minds of what
is, and what is not matter, will be a great difficulty, since it
will necessarily oblige you to abandon your early training
and cast to the winds what science has taught, and what its
great examplars, the Tyndals, Huxleys, and others still
erroneously maintain.
One other observation I will make on the great difficulty
of settling the question of identity of the spirit forms seen
in this country. Identity in any of the phases has been
with me, as I have no doubt it has been with every serious
inquirer, a great stumbling-block. My opportunities, though
limited in comparison with many others, have been, how¬
ever, enough to assure me that a certain class of spirits
have the power of simulating effects which too frequently
compromise the innocent entranced medium under their
“ control,” and therefore I entirely agree with Mr. Stainton-
Moses and Mr. Harrison, and I think the use of a cabinet
and the binding of mediums, however securely, is useless,
and should in future be dispensed with, especially by those
who compose the Research Committee, who are presumed to
be adepts, and whose duties have nothing to do with the
conversion of sceptics.
. The memorial to Dr. Slade lies at 38, Great Russell-street, for the
signature of those who wish to testify, from personal experience only, to
the reality of his medium ship. All those who desire to sign it should do
so without delay.
Far away, on the hoar hill side,
From Skiddaw’s crest the streamlets glide;
Or, leaping in a torrent-gush,
Down the craggy channels rush
White and glittering; but, so far
Are heather brae and broken scar,
Motionless their motion seems,
And fixed the trickling silver gleams.
As in a charm suspended, lie—
Or, like a picture to the eye—
The rushing waters, and express
No movement in their silentness —
That one long line of falling pearl—
Save where the tortured cascades whirl
And make a trouble in the air,
Though e’en the foam hangs sleeping there.
There are some lives whose action flows
Through intense forces in repose,
And to the distant thought appear
Lovely, but lonely, on the drear
World's mountain side a glory, set
In a stern solitude, which yet
They seem to comfort and make bright
Wilh gentle beauty, and the white
Glimmering as of a spirit light.
Go near, and, lo, the silence speaks,
In countless waves the full tide breaks,
The unappai’ent force appears
In the quick rush of hopes and fears,
And onward, beating thoughts, subdued
In channels of a purposed good,
Though crossed and fretted oft. For there
Swell sighs for secret faults and care
For the world’s heritage of sin,
And heart-sick longings, midst the din
Of the great wrongs of time, to hear
Celestial tones rise loud and clear,
The victory of a God confessed,
And all that troubled flood at rest.
Lord, may my life in quiet seeming,
And lit by such a gentle gleaming
As to the mind incurious hides
The hidden power with which it glides,
Fulfil its vows of pi’ayer and faith, ,
And love that lights the eclipse of death ;
Kind acts and lowly services
Of heart that feels and hands that bless,
And that unselfishness Divine
Which proves me, sweetest Saviour, thine.
So troubled, gentle may the press
Of busiest days seem silentness,
And, touched by heaven's reposeful light,
Life’s active charities grow bright,
And be subdued, midst all its cares,
Its trembling hopes, its feast and prayers,
And strife with sin that dare not cease,
To one result of shining peace. A.S.
THE GREATER NUMBER.
[In the Trinummus of Plautus (Act ii., scene 2), Philto exclaims, “ Quin me ad ptwfs
peuetravi 1” which. Riley translates, “ Why have I not descended to the dead ere this ?”
adding the note ‘ Ad Plures,’ ‘ to the many,’ signifles ‘ the dead,' inasmuch as they are
more in number than the living. It was probably used as an euphemism; since to make
mention of death was considered ominous of ill.” “To the greater number,” or “to the
majority,” would be a more literal translation, as the adjective is in the comparative
degree.]
More ! there are far, far more, in the land beyond the veil,
Where wo see not, as here, our loved ones fade and fail.
There where the solemn Gross, never dims the sunshine of love,
More than in earth’s poor stores, in the treasure-house above !
More in the paradise fields, and along the golden shore;
In the sunny isles that stud the glassy sea, more—more,
Saints have been gathering there, ever since the world was born—
Not coming, and passing away, as in this life’s transient morn.
Gone like the twilight mists—like a guest that tarries a day—
Our loved ones came to bless us; but now, 0 where are they ?
Gone, where the happy circles are broken never more,
But each year the knots of loved ones gather—so many more.
Gone, our grey-haired parents : passed to the home above,
Ere we seemed to be able to pay them half of our debt of love.
Waiting for us there, to stretch out the shining hand,
And take us for ever to them up in the Tearless Land.
Gone—the wife from the husband: the husband from the wife,
Who should have shared the often weary burden of life.
Gone, like the widow’s son at the gate of the City of Nain,
The brave ones whom earthly eyes shall never behold again.
Golden-hairecT little ones—gone—slipt from our fostering hand,
And gone to their Guardian Angels, there in the Summer Land.
Wo, with our Rachel-moanings, waiting to follow them,
Like the broken-hearted mothers of the babes at Bethlehem.
Ever since Abel’s spirit passed with the first death-cry,
Gathering still those hosts in the home beyond the sky I
We, too, passing along, to share a mansion with them
Within the pearly gates of the new Jerusalem.
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 18,1877,
They are the noble army, the vast community;
Poor hermits, wandering pilgrims in the wilderness are we.
But we speed on the selfsame journey. Patience ; it cannot be long.
Sometimes we seem to catch the sound of their far-off song.
Sometimes—oftener still when the world is very drear—
Seem we the rustling wings of the angel-hosts to hear,
As though the “ cloud of witnesses” were gathering, clan by clan,
And the King of Saints and Martyrs Himself led on the van.
There is more—oh, think of it, mourner, in every time of dearth !—
More to be gained in heaven than ever we lose on earth.
Weep not, when one new pilgrim passes beyond the bourne,
Saith not the benediction, “ Blessed are they that mourn” ?
Patience. Wait as the husbandman waits for the cloud and the rain.
The shadows will soon come down, and make us all one again.
Here is a slender band: and the weary heart oft faints.
There, there are far, far more in the home of the waiting saints!
Maurice Davies.
(STomsponuence.
[(ire-zt freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kepthy the writers.
SWEDENBORG’S TEACHINGS—ANOTHER INCIDENT IN THE LIFE OF DR. WOLFF.
Sir,—In the current number of your unique paper you give some
interesting incidents from the experience of the genial, laborious and
dauntless missionary, Dr. Joseph Wolff. The present writer remembers
hearing him preach at St. Augustine’s Church, Liverpool, but of that
in the sequel. What you quote as recorded by himself suggests that
strange incident in the experience of Swedenborg, not strange in the
sense of aloneness, but as exciting curiosity, of a vision of a man who
said, “I am God, the Lord, the Creator and Redeemer of the World,”
which is a stone of stumbling to many inquirers—inquirers who do not
doubt similar experiences recorded of other men, as St. Paul, St. John,
or Col. Gardiner. See besides Gen. iii. 8, 9; 1 Kings xix. 11 ; Ps.
xviii. 10; Job xxxviii. 1; Ezek. viii. 1—4; ix. 1. “I, John, saw
the Holy City,” says the divine Apocalypse. “ I, Emanuel Sweden¬
borg, had my spiritual eyes opened to the spiritual world in 1743, and
this continued constantly till in 1772,” is the similar testimony of sight
of that humble man. In both cases the affirmation is personal; in both,
enlightened reason and the common sense of mankind will in time
accept the conclusions as their own (Hitman Science, &c., by J. J. G.
Wilkinson, p. 186). What I have specially in view in writing is, the
fact recorded by Dr. Wolff, and which I understand is a common
experience of Spiritualists, that the “ Devil was silent ” at hearing the
name Jesus. Readers of Swedenborg on reading your copy of the
doctor’s letter would be reminded of him, for in sober prose he
writes, “no devil in hell has power to pronounce the name Jesus,”
(U. I. 297). Again, “The whole host of Satans cannot endure to hear
the name Jesus to be pronounced; for when such sound strikes their
ears, they become instantly like furies, and run to and fro, uttering
blasphemies.” Your Wesleyan would recall some of their most familiar
hymns. The accordance of these hymns with the foregoing extract
from Swedenborg suggests the query, was Swedenborg a Wesleyan, or
was Charles Wesley a Swedenborgian ? So closely does the poetry of
the one tally with the prose of the other that the agreement can
scarcely be accidental. It is on record that John Wesley never met
Swedenborg, though he had a desire so to do, of which the latter
received intelligence from the spiritual world, and he duly informed
Wesley that he had received such information, upon which Wesley
confessed that it was true that he had a desire to see Swedenborg, but
that he had never communicated the fact to any one.
“ Did (he) wisely to conceal, and not divulge
His secret ?”
With Swedenborg’s words, quoted above, be good enough to compare
Hymns 37, 314, 315, from which I quote a few lines.
Jesus ! the name, high over all,
In hell or earth or sky,
Angels and men before it fall
And. devils fear and fly.
Again,
Angels your march oppose,.
Who still in strength excel,
Your secret, sworn eternal foes
Countless, invisible:
With rage that never ends
Their hellish arts they try,
Legions of dire, malicious fiends,
And spirits enthroned on high.
Jesus, tremendous name,
Puts all our foes to flight:
Jesus, the meek, the angry Lamb,
• A Lion is in fight..
By all hell’s host withstood
We all hell’s host p’erthrow, &c.
Some may suppose that these lines find support in the language of
Paul, Ephes, vi. 11—18; Phil. ii. 10, and so they may; but it will be
admitted that their verbal accordance is nearer to the language of
Swedenborg.
Will you kindly grant me space to relate briefly a recollection of
Dr. Wolff’s preaching, referred to at the beginning of this letter. He
stated that, entering an eastern village early one morning, where,
during the night a conflagration had destroyed many of the houses, he
heard cries of distress, and among them these words of wailing, “ Thou
hast broken our bones! Thou hast broken our bones !” i.e., Lord, this
grief is from Thee. Affliction cometh not forth of the dust, neither
()| doth trouble spring out of the ground (Job x. 6). This experience the
\l\ doctor related to illustrate the words of the Psalmist, “ That the bones
Ijtf which thou hast broken may rejoice.” As an illustration of these words,
| | and as showing the permanence of forms of eastern speech and the
i (i genius of language, the anecdote is of service; but it will be claimed
Ki that as an interpretation of the words of the penitent Psalmist, it only
i) | touches the surface. I doubt not that your readers will be pleased to
i(j see the following exegesis, from Max Muller and Swedenborg, who, it
i) j will be seen are in accord. I quote first Professor Muller. The text
j„Xf under consideration is Gen. ii. 21—23. How that God caused a deep
Ki sleep to fall upon Adam, in order to remove one of his ribs out of
!'» which “made he a woman.” The professor has startled many orthodox
|)i teachers by the sound common sense of his interpretations. This
Kj is one of them. “Every student of ancient language,” he says,
!) j “ sees at once that this account must not be taken in its bare literal
i) i sense. . . . It is not always possible to solve these ancient riddles.”
; \ | The solution Dr. Muller gives is briefly as follows :—“ Let us remember
j > | that when we, in our modern language, speak of the self-same thing,
I) | the Hebrews speak of the bone, etzem, the Arabs of the eye of a thing.
i(j This is a well-known Semitic idiom, . . . ‘bone’ seemed a telling
| > j expression for what we should call the innermost essence ; | eye,’ for
| ? | what we should call the soul or self of a thing ; . . . bone came to be
| \ \ used in the sense of self or same; ... in modern language Adam might
P | have been made to say, ‘ Thou art same as I am,’ such a thought would
j ( i in ancient Hebrew be expressed by, ‘ Thou art bone of my bone, and
n j. flesh of my flesh.’ ”
|p This is the learned professor’s interpretation, abridged out of regard
Kj to your space, see Intro. Sci. Eel., pp. 45—48. Now for Swedenborg’s
| $ | interpretation. It will be seen that if the ancient writer of the second
Pi account of creation, as has been claimed, anticipated Dr. Simpson’s
jy| discovery of chloroform, it is much more evident that Swedenborg
|) | anticipated the interpretation of modem students of language by about
j) ! 120 years. Swedenborg in 1749, when all students of Scripture believed
K | that woman was made from the rib of him to whom she was given for
j.); wife, put forth an interpretation of this ancient record not only in sub*
jjj stantial accord with Professor Muller, but in accord with the entire
| (I round of all the sciences. On the passage in question he says : “ It
i) i requires but little attention in auy one to discern that woman was not
!|f formed out of a rib of a man, and that deeper mysteries are here
I) i implied than any person has heretofore been aware of; . . . bone of
bones, and flesh of flesh, signified the proprium—i.e., the selfhood, the
Kj essence, a man’s ownership of himself, a man’s own—of the external
j|l man, in which was the internal, therefore in ancient times all those
HI were called bone of bone, &c., who could be said to belong to them
Ki (Gen. xxix. 14). The ancients applied this form of speaking to those
i) | who were of one house, or of one family, or in some relationship (A.C.
j ) j 152, 157, 3812). Hence Adam is represented as addressing Eve, because
j j I of her relationship, her sameness, not because she was made out one of
i) j of his ribs, “ Thou art bone of my bone,” &c. How are we to account
:) i for this substantial agreement of these two very distinguished, yet at
I \ i the same time very different, men ? Is not Swedenborg’s own account
|) j of the source of his information the true one 1 And if so, is there not
j) | remarkable insight indicated by that sentence of another distinguished
| (i man of the last century, Lessing, who, in his Education of the Human
\) i Race (Sec. 4) says, “ Revelation gives nothing to man which the human
|) j reason, left to itself, might not attain, only it has given, and still gives
K j to him, the most important of these things earlier.”
J. de Maine Browne.
j(| 91, Rochdale-road, Manchester.
II  
Hi MESSAGES THROUGH WRITING MEDIUMSHII*.
Sir,—The following is a spiritual communication, written through
I a lady in the year 1857:—
I? j February 12th.—“ The mortal part of a man is a long time before it
U! is separated from him in the other life ; the process is often painful; like
§ | an ugly habit it clings long after we would reject it. Now the will of
i | the Lord acting in and by love must be done in absolute freedom, the
| | fear which might urge the culprit to admit and submit all things, has no
1) place here, for the thought must be grounded in affection, and that
! 11 affection be grounded in truth and good. Now this thought can only
i < | come by degrees, the beauty of holiness, of meekness, mortal man can
!) | receive but slowly, the immortal still more slowly, because the outward
j | form of goodness is not kept up in the spirit world, where all seem as
; j i they are. The love, then, if not brought with them, is learnt through
|) i suffering, hence the trial, the pain; my friend, the goodness of God is
|' | unimpeachable, but to remain so, mercy must not be extended except
j< | to the lowly and humble in heart; it would be like putting a crown on
j. j a peasant who could not govern, or like ornamenting a bride who was
j j | fit only to die. The toil of life is very much against the spirituality of
!) I the soul, and yet it need not be, for the working before the Lord in the
|) | lower duties of mortality makes a prayer finer in its melody than the
|) i prayer of the form in words even in the secret chambers. But prayer
K ! is made too much a thing apart; God is in the honest act, the kindly
III tone, the secret gift, the expansion of the mind, in the noble traits; this is
j? | the prayer we love, for self is very little in the one prayer, often all in the
! j | other. The broad way of Heaven’s light will enable the imbued man to
j) I see all things in the hearty social mansions of his heart. Love to his
0 | Maker brings love to all, and in that loving fay of love the prayer breaks
i \ i forth in loving acts and words. The glorious views of the Saviour-Lord
| i must be more and more grafted in man’s soul; the time will come when
; j | all brethren are links from high to lower grades: the love will unite,
|j | and the string of melody will fall on the hearts of all men, knotted only
> j as degrees are opened in the minds. Now love, peace, and joy be knotted
j) j together in your heart.”
if f I also quote a spiritual communication, written through the late Mr.
G. B. Pritchard, July 24th, 1864 i—
ii! “ May the love of God prevail, then the light of death must follow \
May 18, 1877.
239
THE SPIRITUALIST.
may the time of probation pass away, and leave behind it the effects of
a regenerated soul, which shall view with gratitude the hand that has
given the aid that has brought peace and happiness to the mortal. May
the liberty of the Christian yet breathe its influence upon the world, and
bring that good out of evil that shall endure throughout the coming ages
of the world, when the din of arms shall have ceased, and the calm
that shall follow it shall reign, then the disquisitions that now agitate
men’s minds upon their spiritual affairs will find their end in that open¬
ing of Divine Truth that shall be the herald of a new state in the out¬
ward aspect of the world; when man will begin to regard his neighbour
as he before regarded himself. Will the truth of life not be seen in the
good of life? and, if so, will not the disputations about truth be hushed
in the great business whose object is salvation ? May the Hero and the
Conqueror in the Christian warfare be regarded by men as the object of
their admiration and devotion. May the man of meekness make his
peace with his persecutor, by infusing into him the principle that pre¬
vails within himself: that may be the panacea in times to come, but
much must first be done before the new cure can come into operation;
many can understand the cure, but few can apply the remedy. While
the force from without and the terror from without principally rule the
world, the religion of men will be fixed by the zeal of their own love of
power, and while that love obtains, the influence of it will affect man in
all things that engage his thoughts and life; man may fight the good
fight among all the conflicting elements about him, but his efforts must
be greater, and his progress must be slower. May the new influence
making its way in the world soften these elements, while the man of war
in the outward world is beating down the old profession that raises
itself as a wall against the will of the Lord and its transforming power.
Men may be made ofttimes to understand their best interests in the
hours of affliction, while their powers for outward enjoyment are sus¬
pended, why not then kill that which stands between themselves and
their true peace, when the powers of life are strong, and the times of
suffering appear at a'distance? Because the time has not yet come
when the best powers of life are devoted to the grand business of salva¬
tion : they now have to be well-nigh killed before even the reflection
about it can be borne; hail those times when, instead of a disabled
and stricken man entering on the road to life, a man in the full strength
and flower of his manhood may be seen devoting his powers to gain
the goal at which he shall be seen in all the strength and beauty of
the spiritual man. Will man of natural strength, of spiritual strength,
and of spiritual attainments halt in the full career of his spiritual
progress, because he finds a small stone before him in the way which
he will not put aside, or step over? May the finite not take the
adjustment of the Infinite that he may find the true means to his
complete state ? including all the peace, all the happiness, and all
the durability of it which that state contains? All opposition is in¬
disposition to the Lord’s will, and all indisposition to that is delay
in obtaining the object of desire: let the course of outward life run
without opposition, it will then run smoothly enough; but by opposition,
like placing a large rock in a smoothly flowing stream, you will agitate
mightily the current that before was holding a peaceful course. May
this hint be heeded, yet the time is short, let it be smooth; you find in¬
justice in your life, let justice temper it; forego complaints, you will find
a remedy for all your ills, a security against misfortunes. The hand of
Fate is hard upon the natural man, but the hand of the Lord guides and
supports the spiritual man, he lives in the mild and invigorating
atmospheres of Heaven, but the first inhales the pestilential exhalations
of death. The Word of the Lord is swift; take it, you will find its
speed, and with the operation of its breath upon your soul, a relief from
care, your stay in the present, and your assurance for the future, you
will thus gain an easy triumph and secure a lasting victory.—Albekt.”
P.
Upper Norwood, May 11th.  
DRAWING-ROOM MEETINGS.
Sm,—Great assistance has been given to the cause of Woman’s
Suffrage, Woman’s Education, and other social and political movements,
by means of drawing-room meetings; and it has occurred to me that
•some attempt might be made in this direction to aid the cause of
Spiritualism, if any ladies were inclined to take it up during the London
season.
The principal advantages of the plan are, that admission to such
meetings being only obtainable by invitation, the company is selected
with a view to harmony and to social sympathy; and, the speakers being
also carefully chosen, the subject of Spiritualism might be presented
in its best aspects, and much prejudice, now caused by misrepresentation
in the press and other quarters, might thereby be removed, and, in its
place, a desire created to investigate the subject in a fair spirit.
Perhaps the mention of this plan may induce some of your readers to
take it into consideration. Emily Kislingbury.
SPIRIT DRAPERY.
Sir,—Will you allow me to call your attention to an important error
in the report of my remarks at the last discussion meeting of the
British National Association of Spiritualists ? I refer to what I am
made to say concerning the giving away of pieces of her dress by the
spirit of Mrs. Livermore. To the best of my recollection, I began my
remarks by saying that I had once received a piece of lace from a
spirit dress which was quite like ordinary worldly lace, adding that
I had had the privilege of seeing the photograph of Mrs. Livermore’s
spirit, and that the drapery around that figure was most exquisitely fine
and beautiful, especially under the microscope, being comparable only
to a butterfly’s wing or other natural object.
Very likely my statement was made with some confusion of tongue,
in which case the report is excusable, but it must be contradicted else
I shall be held accountable for saying what is not true. In fact, I
never saw Mrs, Livermore either in the body or out, and when her
spirit was photographed, if I am not mistaken, only one person was
present beside the medium, Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken. The remainder
of the report is substantially correct, as most of the reports in The
Spiritualist that have come under my observation are.
F. Y. Hallock.
May 11th, 1877.
MISS MARTINEAU’S RELATION TO SPIRITUALISM.
Miss Martineau’s position in relation to Spiritualism is
set forth in a letter she wrote to Mary Carpenter, printed in
the interesting Autobiography just published by Mrs. M. W.
Chapman (London : Smith, Elder, and Co.). The following
is the letter :—
“ Ambleside, April 17, 1866.
a. . . . What your friend has heard of my belief in
Spiritualism (so called) is not true. As far as direct personal
knowledge goes, I am in a state of blank ignorance of the
whole matter. I have never witnessed any of the phenomena,
nor conversed with any qualified observer who had. This
would be wrong if I could have helped it, but the whole
thing has come up (in a popular way) since my illness began.
Mr. Home endeavoured, through more than one channel, to
get permission to come and show me his wonders; but I
have been in no condition for watching and testing such
experiments, and declined it altogether. Of course one has
some impression or other from what one hears ; and mine is
this. From what I learned in my experience and observa¬
tion of mesmerism, I am so far aware of the existence of
rarely used and undeveloped powers and capacities in the
brain, as to disapprove very strongly the gratuitous supposi¬
tion, in the spirit-rapping case, of pure imposture on the
one hand and of the presence of departed spirits on the
other. I see no occasion or justification whatever for either
supposition: and I observe this is the view of persons whose
judgment is most respected,—persons who have waited till
the first excitement had passed off, and they could look into
the matter as philosophers should. About the facts of mes¬
merism, my position is the same that it was twenty years
ago,—simply because I hold not an opinion based on any
theory (for I never had any theory on it), but knowledge of
facts. If Cuvier and other eminent naturalists justly in¬
sisted that no group of facts in natural history is better
established on observation and experiment than those of
mesmerism, it is not possible for any reasonable person who
knows the facts to have variable opinions on the case.”
Miss Anna Blackwell’s Prize Essay on Spiritualism has been trans¬
lated into French, and is published in the form of a pamphlet.
Last Tuesday night a few friends met at 8, Upper Bedford-place,
London, to welcome Mr. T. Berks Hutchinson, one of the hardest
workers in the cause of Spiritualism at Cape Town, South Africa. A
longer notice of the meeting will be published next week.
Next Sunday morning the very Rev. Canon Gilbert, D.D., will
deliver the third of his series of four fortnightly sermons, at the Roman
Catholic Church of St. Mary’s, Moorfield’s, London, near the Broad-
street and Liverpool-street railway stations. The service begins at
11 a.m., and the sermon at 11.30 a.m.
An Entertainment at Grasmere.—Mr. P. R. Harrison, of Grasmere
College, has, we are informed, the sons of several Spiritualists under
his tuition, amongst others, the son of the late Mr. j. W. Jackson, of
Glasgow. The Lakes Chronicle of last Saturday contains a report of
an entertainment at the establishment, and the following is an extract
from the account:—“ The musical part of the entertainment passed off
very well. Several of the songs and duets were sung in character, for
instance, ‘ One day while Working at the Plough,’ a duet by Masters
Burns and Armer; ‘ Caller Herrin,’ a song by Master King; and ‘ Very
Suspicious,’ a duet by Mr. Harrison and Master King. King has a
powerful voice, and, dressed as Mrs. Willoughby Brown, he appeared
to great advantage in ‘ Very Suspicious.’ Instead of repeating this duet
when encored, the ‘ABC’ duet was substituted with good effect. The
pianoforte was ably presided at by Miss Gillies. The second part of the
programme opened with the trial scene from Shakspere’s ‘ Merchant of
Venice.’ The characters, ten in number, were sustained by Mr. Harri¬
son’s pupils, Mr. Harrison himself taking the part of Shylock. As an
interlude Mr. Harrison, attired as an Indian Chief, sang a solo entitled,
1 The Indian Hunter.’ This was followed by ‘ The Vagabond,’ also sung
by Mr. Harrison. A lively nigger farce, called * The Magic Penny,’
concluded the entertainment. The acting was creditably performed,
making allowance, of course, for the youth of the performers, and it
showed that considerable pains must have been taken in preparing for
these amateur theatricals. A handsome stage was erectel; green cur¬
tains at the sides, scarlet cretonne covered with white lace at the back,
flowers and footlights in the front, and a real drop scene, completed the
picture. The costumes were magnificent, particularly those of the
characters in ‘ The Merchant of Venice.’ A repetition of the entertain¬
ment has been asked for, and it will probably be given at Ambleside on
Thursday week, and possibly at Keswick on the following evening.”
240
THE SPIRITUALIST,
A DREAM ABOUT THE SPIRIT OF THE ROSE.
BY CATHERINE WOODFORDE.
Upon a table in a glass of water stood a beautiful rose, shedding its
fragrance upon the air. Lovingly Cleone drew near, and with caressing
words stooped to inhale its sweetness, making remarks upon its beauty;
and dwelling upon the fact that all things upon the material plane have
their corresponding spiritual prototypes, she laughingly wondered what
might be the shape and form of the spirit entity which thus expressed
its life upon the earth in the form of a rose.
Loving spirit-friends were bending over her, the human flower,
rejoicing in the unfoldment of her spirit beauty beneath the sun of
divine love. They had trained her to know their presence, to respond
to their thoughts.' Ever their gentle voiceless conversations went on
with her spirit, and many a page of Nature’s secrets and the hidden
wisdom of angels was spread open before her mind, in the quiet morn¬
ing walks, or in the hours just before or at daydawn, ere the flood of
life’s disturbing cares had set in. So closely had the links of loving
communion been drawn between her and the invisible habitants of the
spirit-world, that their very emotions thrilled through her sensitive
frame-; the auras of angelic purity, fragrant and delicious, which they
gave forth, reached even her physical senses, and lapped her in the
elysium of heaven; for, indeed, heaven was brought to her very side,
and entered within her, from the company of heaven’s inhabitants and
the constant influx of their pure spirit life into her being.
By long discipline through severest trials, the angel guides had caused
Cleone to put aside all of self and earth, that is to say all the impurities
of earth, and to exhale her life in sweetness. If her life was not yet
perfect, it was as perfect as it could be, and the attitude of her soul was
that of constant effort and aspiration after the highest. She grew up¬
wards; already she had pierced through earth’s thick atmospheres, and
bore the blossom of her life in heavenly air, and this it was which made
her pleasant to angels.
How beautiful was life to her because of the spirit presences, in¬
visible to others, but which she saw and felt. How beautiful the inno¬
cent world to her, who could look upon the within of things, the par¬
tially unveiled lovely soul of nature; the reverse of innocence was pain¬
ful, but taught its lessons of wisdom also.
Responding to Cleone’s earnest longing to see the spirit prototype of
the rose, some of the friends about her opened her inner vision, and she
saw a gentle female face of seraphic loveliness, expressing in its fixity
unconsciousness of surrounding things, seemingly absorbed in the
flower; the sweet vaporous face was no more, but she treasured it in her
memory. " ,,,
Was it a loving spirit-friend caused the rose to be transferred by |||
gentle human hands from the cheerful drawing-room, filled with the j(j
songs of birds, and scents of flowers, to Cleone’s quiet bed-chamber, j:j
wherefrom the centre table its sweetness exhaled through the room, and jjj
another lovely spirit-presence seemed added to this abode of etherial |(j
presences? 11
Passing by her table, gratefully bending over the rose, thankfully in- | |
haling its breath, fondling, and loving it, Cleone again and again saw ] j|
the lovely spirit of it. Tenderly the ever-watchful gentle face bent 1H
above it, never glancing up, seeming absorbed in the flower. But long j (j
vaporous rose-tinted robes covered a form unrevealed, to which the face 11 i
now belonged. j}j
Night came—the hour of rest—and in Cleone’s room the spirit of the ; (j
rose tended her flower. Surprised and delighted that the lovely vision 11 j
was still given to her, Cleone talked with spirit-friends about it. “ Who | (j
has called this beautiful being here to delight me? Was it you, iu
dear ? Is it really the spirit of the rose ? May I believe that ? j > j
Or is it a spirit attracted by the beauty of the flower ? What will she i (j
do when the flower is dead ? Does she not get tired of this incessant |(j
watching ? Will she not go away ? Dear little beauty! I shall miss j 11
her when she is gone. How sweet it is to know she is there. How | /:
beautiful my room is with her in it! ”
“ I will tell you about her,” replied one of Cleone’s friends. “ She j | j
is one whose soul has not yet progressed into conscious individuality. I} j
Her spirit gives itself into the flower, feeding it, and making it expand j(|
into perfect beauty. She knows the fullest happiness she is capable of j j
knowing, and her life is filled with a sufficiency of all things needful to j j j
her; but she can have no longings, nor can she feel fatigue; it is exist- j (j
ence. She does not see you yet. But you observe her perfect beauty ? j> j
She has reached the climax of this state of existence, and the next step J |
will be human life. She is near the time of a new birth, and, being of j(]
a pure and high type, she will not be incarnated in any of the lower ! | j
races of mankind. I have to aid her soul’s unfoldment. Watch her—I U \
will show you something.” |
Lying upon her bed,’Cleone watched the spirit still bending over her j j i
rose ; but at length the vaporous being, as if unconsciously obeying an j / j
impulse, turned, and was wafted into the air, a little towards the head jyj
of the bed, where she remained in the same gentle contemplative atti- |>j
tude. She seemed presently to become conscious of Cleone’s presence, | /1
and the friend said, “I am drawing out, and intensifying the powers of jjj
her soul, and making her study you.” j|
“ What can I be to her, pretty darling?” j) j
“ Much. You are too great a study for her, in short; she cannot com- i( I
pass all the wonders of your existence. But she is delighted with you \)\
as a woman, and begins to have ideas she never had before.” j
” How extraordinary! But she is a woman.” t ||j
“In that form; but not yet perfect. She begins to have ideas of the j>!
capabilities of womanhood, which ravish her with delight. She is, in in
short, at this moment experiencing what is to her like an apotheosis, an Is!
exaltation into a new state, which comes by knowledge when the soul is ] 11
ripe for it.” • k|
Expressing rapture as much as a floating form could express it by m
movement, the gentle being came, and hung in the air directly over )j
Cleone’s reclining body, Here she seemed to draw into herself greater wt
May 18, 1877.
fj| consciousness and life: to learn of a larger existence, more exalted
j|j capabilities of being than her own had ever been, to which she aspired
i h as to the life of a god.
| ( | “ I am permitting you to give her something. Are you glad ? ”
|| | “ Oh, delighted! Bless her ! Let her take all she can get.’’
With a little joyous tinkling laugh, the spirit floated back to her
i (I former position, and now displayed two tiny snow-white feet beneath her
| (i rose-coloured robe. With these she seemed especially delighted, and
|| i for the first time found speech ! “I have pretty woman’s feet, too, now.
j (j I can run, and walk, and jump, and dance. I shall be earth-woman, too,
1' like you soon. The great God-spirit has told me so; I am so happy; so
happy ! I shall be born a little baby. I shall grow, and be a woman,
too ; and I shall marry, and be a happy wife and mother.”
The thought sighed through Cleone’s mind without words, as she
listened with amused and tender sympathy to the innocent joyous words
of the developing soul. “ Ah ! may it be all happiness for you, sweet
one ! But even the pains of life will make you greater; so it is all hap¬
piness in the end.”
But the curtains of dewy sleep drooped heavily over Cleone’s eyes,
and still looking at, and thinking of the beautiful existence just revealed
to her, her own spirit sank into unconsciousness.
At dawn, with returning wakefulness, came the recollection of the-
spirit of the rose. Again, the gentle form hung contemplatively above
the flower, but an ambient light encircled and haloed it, a light of rain¬
bow hues. As Cleone watched the beautiful sight, the spirit shape
rose higher, the face assumed a more beatific look, and turned itself up¬
wards. Now the form resolved itself into the rainbow light, and there
was naught but the lovely rapt face to be seen. Gradually, from the
delicate rose-tint, which it had always worn, it changed to a pallid
blue, as if a coloured light had been shed upon it, and paler, paler
grew, once lighting into a golden glory, then snow white, more and more
etherial, until like a fleecy cloud melting away on the sun-lit sky, it
vanished; but a vaporous form, so etherial as scarcely to be seen,
floated up, up, and exhaled away.
“ The spirit of the rose has gone to the angels, preparatory to being
incarnated. The life of the rose is over, as you will soon see, said the
voice of the spirit-guardian.
The rose still looked fresh; but in one or two hours its leaves lay
scattered upon the table.
Rome, May 1st, 1877.
A DEVOTIONAL SEANCE FOR WHIT-SUNDAY.
. In compliance with the wishes of several correspondents, a Church
of England clergyman—the writer of the two recent articles on
“ Devotional Spiritualism ” in these columns—has consented to hold a
seance at 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square, next Sunday morning,
(Whit-Sunday), at 11.30. He makes the following stipulations : First—
That the service shall be strictly private, the invitations being limited
to friends ; secondly—That, in conducting such private service, he shall
wear the dress he would wear if officiating in church, and use a
shortened form of the Communion Office—“Not,” he says, “that I
attach the slightest importance to the matter of dress per sef or that I
think the Church of England service so incomparably superior to all
others or incapable of improvement; but I wish, as a matter of prin¬
ciple, to attest my conviction that such a service is not incompatible
with the staunchest allegiance to the Church whereto I deem it my
privilege to belong.” “It is better,” he adds, “ to have these matters
clearly understood beforehand, so that those who accept an invitation
may know exactly what they are to expect.”
The order of service will, he states, be as follows ; Opening Hymn,
No. 142, Part I., from Hymns Ancient and Modern, “ Brief life is here
our portion.” Ten minutes’ Address, explanatory of the services.
Second hymn, No. 299, Ancient and Modern, “Art thou weary, &c.,”
(second tune). Prayers from Church of England Office. Gospel.
Consecration Prayer and Communion. Short silent seance—previous
to which will be sung, to tune of hymn 4, Hymns Ancient and Modern,
the passage xciv- from Tennyson’s In Memoriam—
How pure at heart, and sound in head,
With what Divine affections bold,
Should be the man whose thought would hold
An hour’s Communion with the Head,
In vain shalt thou, or any, call
The spirits from their golden day,
Except, like them, thou too caust say—
lt My spirit is at peace with all.”
They haunt the silence of the breast,
Imaginations calm and fair;
The memory like a cloudless air,
The conscience as a sea at rest.
But when the heart is full of din
And doubt beside the portal waits,
They can but listen at the gates.
And hear the household jar within.
Any private friends who wish to be present are requested to signify
the same through Mrs. Burke, 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square,
London, but it must be distinctly understood that only a small number
of applications can be entertained, and that the stance is a strictly
private one.
M. Gustave de Veh will return to Dresden to-morrow.
Prince Wittgenstein holds an independent command of a section of
the Russian army on the Danube,
May 18, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
111
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
Loudon, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. US. This
book consists of essays on the Sociai, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Gd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about Engiish profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vo!. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts .of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which-deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttieton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium Ught. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a wnter of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Su])cmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumaiology; Miracles
and Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
ana Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. i2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens1 these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
. book is Illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate' results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, IQs. Qd.; cheap edition,
7s. Qd. „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. ■
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. *
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), od.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Cd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6S.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by Wilham Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE T WO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS; A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by CoraL. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STOBIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
3. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. at 7s. Cd.) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols., 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ Hf. „ . ,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . ." .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events m the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia: Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s, d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 C
5 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 0
0 0
7 6
7 6
5 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spirituaiist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism .14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll, Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts 16' 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English.
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 3
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 C
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
By Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... ... 18 C
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools • , , . 10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Iract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E-
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomao R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6(1
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman ot Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolvhus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds mys of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam,
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRAC LE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Hallock. 2s,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 18, 1877,
HE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAT. :
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the MoDaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours,
NQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature’s own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal."—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatio Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the te»'m, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping ihe system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, haying tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being toe only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—*‘ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.’’—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law,20, Old StateHouse,Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost alway s recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a irial
which he did, and received great benefit. He- says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“M.BSRAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX,
SPIRITUALISM : '
Neiu Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
Present Position^
BY “ M.A. (OXON.)”
I have been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism. The facilities which I have enjoyed for personal
investigation, my acquaintance with the literature of the
subject and with prominent workers in it, and the attention
that I have paid to the investigation of its various phases, have
seemed to many to fit me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on Spiritualism, if it
did but sketch the subject, should be very voluminous; and,
when written, it would be found to omit more than it dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write such a book; nor do I
think it desirable that any such attempt should be made in the
present state of our knowledge.
But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for observation should use them, and record
their results as best he can. In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
Crowell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter not yet published. A special feature of the book will
be the introduction to general readers of the best books on
Modern Spiritualism.
The volume will be published at 10s if sufficient names are
enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
and will pay expenses. I decline pecuniary risk.
I propose hereafter (but not now) to issue two other works,
—one , Spirit Teachings," dealing with the religious aspect
of the question; the other, “ Researches in the Phenomena
and Philosophy of Spiritualism," dealing with the whole
subject in its experimental phases, and with the theory and
philosophy of it. These will come in due time if they find
a place.
For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.”
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.
Those to whose name * is prefixed will receive names of
Subscribers, and Mr. Perciyal, the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
of copies—about 500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time is already overtaxed.
“M.A. (OXON.).’’
Names of Committee.
♦Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitz-gerald, 19, Oambridge-street, Hyde Park, W.
*Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T. Speer, Esq., 13, Alexandra-road, N.W.
*0. O. Massey, Esq., 96, Portland-place, W.
T. Shorter, Esq, 23, Prince of Wales’-road, N.W.
*B. Coleman, Esq., 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
F. W. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, W.,
Treasurer, to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the silting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, ior such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No," and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
, Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ’’ Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody presem, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity,
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
Le Comte de Bullet    60 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq  20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq  20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq,  15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq.   10 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq    10 0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq  10 0 0
G. O. Joad, Esq  10 0 0
The Hon. A. Aksakof     io o 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D      10 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   10 0 0
M R. I     10 0 0
James Mylne, Esq    10 0 0
x   i    10 o o
B 1  6 6 0
O. T    5 5 0
George Sutherland, Esq s  5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq      50 0
The Countess of Caithness ;..... 5 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun j  5 0 0
A Friend   ..!  5 0 0
B  3 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon  2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear   2 2 0
Dr. Baikie i      2 2 0
Miss Whitear   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.1  2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe   n  2 2 0
S.J.H.        2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S    2 2 0
Ennesfallen....       2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq.  2 0 0
W.           2 0 0
G.Y    2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D t  2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
A. Vacher, Eeq    2 0 0
Colonel Olcott..,  2 0 0
The Baroness von Yay   1 10 0
George Lee, Esq.    110
G. R. Tapp, Esq   :.  110
Mrs. Maltby  110
B. W. Pycock, Esq  110
Mrs. Nosworthy    110
C. T. Hook, Esq  110
Major Menars       110
A. Glendinning, Esq   110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S   110
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E   110
Mrs. Hennings    ...;. 110
Dr. George WyId   l l o
Miss Allen    1 1 C
W. P. Adshead, Esq     1 1 0
John Mould, Esq  110
J. P. Turner, Esq      110
J. T. Dodd, Esq    110
Mrs. Jeffreys   110
J. O. Eno   110
Miss Douglas     10 0
Jonn Scott, Esq    10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq  10 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq    10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     i o 0
Mrs. Tyndall      l o 0
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby ’«  10 0
John Chapman, Esq  10 0
G. F. Green, Esq  0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby   0 10 6
R. Catling    0 10 6
E. R    0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq    0 10 0
M. J.Walhouse, Esq     0 10 0
A Friend          0 10 0
A Friend       0 10 0
T. H        0 10 0
Miss Pearce    0 5 0
J. T. M      0 5 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Yegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable of Sir Charles
Isham, Lamport Hall, Northampton.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING .
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEAR’S TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear’s, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache,
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.O.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beyebidge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
