REGIST2EED AS A NEWSPAPBR.]
#Ib.est Uctospnptr (pmptdm biilj SpivHivalism in (feat §nfain.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 346, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
84, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS ,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 223.—(Vol. IX.—No. is.) LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1876.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Library of the National Association of Spiritualists...
The Reality of Spiritual Phenomena. By Cromwell F.
Varley, C.E, F.R S   
Clairvoyance and Spirit Identity. By Eugene Crowell, M.D.
Dr. Forbes Winslow on Mad Spiritualists  
Opinions about Spiritualism ...    
Greek Writing through Dr. Slade's Mediumship 
Spiritualists’ Defence Fund:—.Executive Committee 
The Present Position of Spiritualism  
How Many Apples did Adam and Eve Eat ? 
National Association Soiree. ;. ... ... ... ... ...
Dr. Slade's Trance Mediumship     ...
The Slade Prosecution ■   ...
Spiritualism in Paris. By Count De Bullet 
National Organisation of American Spiritualists 
Slate-Writing Phenomena  ... ...   ...
Correspondence:—The Use of Scientific Research—A
Seance with Mr. Williams  <...   
Dr. Monck   ... ...'     
Paragraphs:—Mr. J. J. Morse in the North, 209; National
Association Winter Meetings    
205
206
206
209
209
210
211
211
211
211
212
213
213
214
215
215
216
216
“THE SPIRITUALIST’’ NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature. Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their namea in cdn'nection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, out has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1870): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. 'Atkinson. F.G.S.Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen'(formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeid (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Masseys Le Comte de Bullet: the Hoh. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S,; .Mr, Serjeant Cox, President of the Beychologlcal
. Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British, National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent! (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ress-Church (Florence Marryatj: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the .Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg): the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
MY). (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon,M.B. (Indiji);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Banister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. O. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles; (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents pef annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. .
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 &■ 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, WjC.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated pei iods or re-;'
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
end Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and -
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A. Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager. +
TO PUBLISHERS’ ASSISTANTS—Wanted,
An intelligent ASSISTANT, aged about 16, experienced
in publishing work, and quick atacoounm. Apply, stating
terms, and in own handwriting, to W. H, Harrison, 38, Great ■
Russell-street, Loudon, W.O.
The.
Beveridge and ,co., Printers of,.
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, BOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute* ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwanled-on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET. BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained thiough any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiiitualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, SS, Great Russell-sti eet, W.O,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
N.B.—All new subscriptions paid from this date are avail¬
able/ to December 81,1877.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIAflON
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This ^organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1876, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best" essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition, of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom deplume of
M. A, Oxou.; Mr.. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of-tbe essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected .by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council-of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publicftYiorf, -holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of" fhe writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
Street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. i$d., post free.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
-r‘, : SPIRITUALISTS.
A VENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
'WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
* 88,. GREAT RUSSELL,. STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
: On the 7th, Sth, and 9th of Febuary, 1877.
* The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received :—
1. The Best Tests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World ?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
■ 5! .The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means cf Directing Attention to the Importance
* of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
' 8. Spiritualism as a Religions Influence.
All papers to. be sent to the Secretary, 38.-Great Russell-
strect, Bloomsbury, not later than Jamury 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain the property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37, -
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T. P. BARKAS, F.G.S,
Begs to announce that he proposes to deliver a series of SIX
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room,
Nelson-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing shortly.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to be taken
at 7.30.
LECTURE L—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject—“The Seientiflc Principles involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE IT.—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air."
LECTURE III.—Councillor H W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“ The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside. Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars.”,
LECTURE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its History and Philosophy."
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its Modern Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will be
answei ed.
The Lectures will be illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake, 49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the course; Unreserved Sea’s, Is. 6d. the course.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism ; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by vanous means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinal y experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to specialseances with professional media, lectures, discus
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions ‘‘for
formation of circles and conduct oi seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Lift Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The. object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, Ac, &c., a; ply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sbo.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circlee
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and stance, 5s. 64; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Duo. 1, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
-- -t-.. . . n..j» Air
Liverpool. „
Hony wood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.  
Jeneken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
JIassey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Kamsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.  
Rogers, E. D.. Kose-\-llIa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin It., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armficld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Excliange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Kichmond Hill.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Riclimond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Itichmond-hill.
Cooper, It., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lyuton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, 1, Cornwall Residences, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H-. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 84, Walnut-street, Oheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning. A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodiands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs.. 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage. Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breclc-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
R'eimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roau, S E.
Stra vbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs.G.N., Annandale, Central-hill. Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park.'Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W,
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin K. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russic, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 98,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinten-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 8210, Mount Yernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia.U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris;
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson. Alemphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz; President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq,, M.D.,Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1'Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan.Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria,
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlic. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, SaUta Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Ncwlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexauder-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—K1 Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
SociedadEspirita Central de la Repubtica Mexicana President—
Senbr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
HE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
he practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers,
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.   
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontb, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt. Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
npHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
X GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English sofciety, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMT TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAYAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
Mrs. jweldon’s orphanage.—
“Grannie’s Nutsery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at os. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the! different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the hook. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tayistock-square, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at II punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m,
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. ^Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, ' INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP:- ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
/"'I OOD CHAMBERS or FURNISHED
V3T . APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
fHURNISHED APARTMENTS to LET,
JL. consisting' of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting-hiU, W.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.G.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE two
CLEVER SCEPTIC 8. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z.. B.I.G.AS.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in thq
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This hook affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
2he Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Maha«br—Mrs. A C. Burke.
% tl trf mb. tl ^ptijilunlbrn.
Volume Kijme. Kumber Eiqhteejm.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1st, 1876.
}
THE LIBRARY OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A report from the newly-appointed Library Committee
of the National Association of Spiritualists would be of
interest to the public, because of the important duties com¬
mitted to its charge. The members of that committee have
under their control the chief library connected with Spirit¬
ualism, and no public collection, not even that of the British
Museum, includes nearly so complete a supply of works
relating to this particular subject. One point to which
attention should be given is the collecting and binding of
all the Spiritual periodicals published in every part of the
globe, for no other public establishment connected with
Spiritualism has attempted to do such work. A catalogue
of the books at present in the library should be drawn up,
together with a list of others at present obtainable, but which
are missing, and should be added to the collection. Further, a
list might be compiled from any catalogues to which access
could be obtained, of ancient books on psychological subjects,
accompanied by information where they may be seen by the
student. In short, the results of the work of the Library
Committee should be of true historical value, and nothing
should be omitted to complete the records under its charge.
Not a paragraph or picture published in any newspaper any¬
where about Spiritualism should be omitted to be dated and
filed, not that the said extracts are of any present value,
but because nobody can tell what may be their use in the
future. If in the British Museum an arbitrary system of
collection prevailed, the records would be most disappointing
to students, who would discover that particular things which
they require had not been saved from oblivion because of the
personal opinions of the officials of the day as to their value.
At present the London daily newspapers are not taken in
and filed in "the reading-room ; if they were to be found
upon its tables, as well as some of the more interesting of
the weekly periodicals, the attractions of the reading-room
would be greatly increased, for those who now wish to con¬
sult popular journals are obliged to go elsewhere, instead of
finding the two classes of reading upon the s&me’ premises;
THE REALITY OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
BY CROMWELL P. TABLET, C.E., P.R.S.
In No. 2520 of The Spectator> pages 1281 and 1282, there
is a letter from Dr. Carpenter, who assumes that because
there are impostors making money by bogus “spiritual
manifestations’’ all “ mediums” are impostors. He might
with equal reason assert that, because fraudulent merchants
are occasionally brought to justice, therefore all merchants
are rogues.
Twenty-five years ago I was a hard-headed unbeliever, and
when it was asserted that tables could be made to gyrate by
means of li electricity and magnetism” the absurdity was too
manifest for discussion.
“ Spiritual phenomena,” however suddenly and quife un¬
expectedly, were soon after developed in my own family.
Several coming events were correctly foretold, and I was
naturally amazed; this led me to inquire and to try
numerous experiments in such a way as to preclude as much
as circumstances would permit the possibility of trickery
and self-deception. Some of these investigations have been
published in various journals, and in the proceedings of the
Dialectical Society.
Prior to this I had frequently experimented with mes¬
merism as a curative agent, and had met with three clair¬
voyants with whom I had made many experiments.
The late Professor de Morgan has written : “ I am per¬
fectly convinced that I have both seen and heard in a
I manner which should make unbelief impossible, things
!' | called Spiritual, which cannot be taken by a rational being’
! to be capable of explanation by imposture, coincidence, or
j mistake. So far I feel the ground firm under me.”
William Crookes, F.R.S., writes : “ That certain physical
! phenomena, such as the movement of material substances
and the production of sounds resembling electric discharges,
occur under circumstances in which they cannot be explained
| by any physical law at present known, is a fact of which I
| am as certain as I am of the most elementary fact in
I chemistry.”
I can fully endorse both of these statements.
Some of the sub-committees of the Dialecticah Society
I have left a record of their proceedings. They did not have
j recourse to paid or professional mediums. They sat time
j] after time until the phenomena appeared.
(I They report that ultimately they succeeded in getting a
! heavy table to move when no one was touching it, and when,
| in fact, no one was within some few feet of it. The room
I was well lighted at the time.
| I have twice seen a table move when no one was touching
i i it. On one occasion, in my own house, when no one was
j within seven feet of the table, and while I was holding both
j the hands and feet of the medium, the table moved up to
I me. Several others were present, and all of us saw it.
< I On another occasion, I was sitting near a small table ; the
11 medium was almost six feet distant; the table rose up more
| than twelve inches, and then moved horizontally about
| eight feet before it came down again. This was witnessed
I by four people.
| jj I have repeatedly seen tables (and other objects) lifted off
11 the floor when our hands were resting upon them,
i Sometimes I have sat under the table with candles, while
) i friends observed above to see that the table was not moved
| by either the hands or feet of those sitting around.
| When the table has been off the ground 1 have mentally
I wished the table to move north, east, west, or south, and it
j has immediately followed my unexpressed wish,
i A scent-bottle lying upon a mahogany table has been
I seen first to rock to and fro rapidly, and then to gyrate,
jj while rocking rapidly, for some minutes, no hands being
I j near it. This was at a private house.
jj I have been sitting in a chair in a well-lighted room,
jj several feet from the medium, and my chair has been
jj twisted half round so rapidly and violently as to nearly
j throw me off.
Other and numerous phenomena have occurred, proving,
jj the existence—{a) of forces unknown to science, (b) the
j power of instantly reading my thoughts, (<?) the presence
j of some intelligence or intelligences controlling those
j powers.
j In America, in 1867-68, I had numerous opportunities
j j of experimenting.
( j In England I had experienced great unwillingness on the
j part of the mediums to submit to experiments,
j j t" Miss K. Fox (now Mrs. Jencken) was introduced to me
j j at the house of a solicitor (Mr. Townsend) by Mr. Liver-
I! more, a retired banker. After a few sittings Miss Fox
j consented to a series of experiments.
Five cells of Grove’s nitric acid battery, two helices, an
j electro-magnet, key, switches, and wires were procured by
j me, in order to see if there were any connection between
i the psychic forces and those of electricity and magnetism,
j After a great many experiments, extending over fifty or
i sixty hours, I was still unable to detect any distinct con-
j necting link. Some of the experiments were conducted in
(j the dark, but the majority of them in a bright light, and
i some in broad daylight.
< i My battery was on a side table, and was there connected
206 THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 1, 1876.
to a switch from which eight wires ran to the table at |||
which we were seated.
Mr. and Mrs. Townsend, Mr. Livermore, Miss Fox and I ^|||
were always there, but on a few occasions we had sometimes j j
one, sometimes two others. By means of the switch and j j
keys I was able to operate in the dark, no one but myself j |
being aware of the experiment I was trying. In fact, none I |
of those present were acquainted with the laws of electricity. I j
Two phenomena of importance only were obtained. 1st. j j
Whenever I took hold of a wire through which the current j j
was passing, the “ invisibles” always correctly stated which j j
way the electric current was flowing (assuming that the | j
current flows from the positive to the negative pole.) The !|i
second phenomenon was that whenever in the dark I placed j j
the helix around my head the “ invisibles” took no notice of j j
it when no current was passing, but the moment I pressed | |
down the key and caused a current to flow loud raps were | j
heard, the table rocked violently, and Miss Fox’s hand j j
would write out involuntarily a message to me to the effect j j
that I ought not to place my head inside the helix; that it j j
was prejudicial, and it gave them great uneasiness. Ire- j !
peated this experiment on many occasions, and always with jjj
the foregoing result. ]||
Mr. Blackburn, of Manchester, requested me to test the j j
materialisation phenomena, which occurred in the presence | j
of Miss F. Cook (now Mrs. Corner.) The experiments were !
conducted at the house of Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, in Glou- |
cester-square, Hyde-park. The medium was treated like a j
telegraph cable, a current being sent from her right wrist !
along her right and left arms to her left wrist. She was j
tested for “continuity and resistance” all through the j
sitting. For this purpose a reflecting galvanometer, a box j
of standard resistances, the necessary keys and shunts were L
employed. ||
By these means the medium could not break the circuit j }
for even the hundredth part of a second without the fact being j !
instantly revealed ! Yet out came the “ materialised Annie j j
Morgan.” She spoke to us and wrote before us on paper. She j j
once appeared only half materialised from her waist up- ! j
wards, the lower extremities being absent. ! j
I shook hands with this “ materialised ” being, and at the j j
conclusion of the sitting—which lasted I believe over an j j
hour—I was instructed by “ Annie Morgan” to go to the
medium to demesmerise her. I found Miss Cook just as I j j
had left her; the platinum wires were untouched, and she was j j
in a deep trance, from which I speedily awoke her by “ cross | j
passes.” (I have elsewhere published the result of this ex- | |
periment). I i
One of the phenomena which I experienced on this occa- ! j
sion was a great loss of power. I could with difficulty only j j
support myself. j I
I often experience this at “physical seances” and to such | j
an extent that for years I have been obliged to abstain from | j
them altogether. It is also a curious fact that my presence | |
often weakens and sometimes prevents the physical pheno- I |
mena altogether. It was accordingly arranged that the ex- I |
periments should be conducted by Mr. Crookes at his house, I j
and in my absence. We fixed the apparatus and devised m
various means of making the tests as indisputable as pos- j j
sible. It
He has conducted a long series of experiments, taking j |
every precaution he could devise to avoid trickery, intentional I !
or otherwise*.
It is simply impossible for even a thoroughly experienced jj!
electrician to escape from the electric circuit, without pro- j; j
ducing such an alteration of resistance as would proclaim the . M
fact instantly. The doors and windows were sealed, the M
rooms were examined before and after the experiments, and |lj
yet the phenomena presented themselves before Mr. Crookes | j
and other gentlemen quite as capable as Hr. Carpenter him- j I
self of correctly interpreting them. Any person who doubts j |
Mr. Crookes’s ability and accuracy of observation, should read j !
his paper upon the determination of the atomic weight of | |
thallium. Hr. Carpenter himself might study this with ad- I j
vantage.
Hr. Carpenter attacked Mr. Crookes, Hr. Huggins, myself, j |
and others some few years ago in the Quarterly, in a manner j j
which drew down upon him a lesson which he seems to have j
forgotten. He seems to think that he has disposed ofus by 1
comparing us with Baron Reichenbach, and he jumps to the
conclusion that we have placed faith “ in tricky women.”
Baron Reichenbach published a work describing a new
series of forces which accompany electricity, magnetism,
chemical action, vitality, which he named Od. Hr. Ash-
burner, of England, has confirmed many of his statements,
and I have experimented with people who can see these
phenomena. Now I cannot myself see the so-called
. “ flames ” that issue from a magnet, but I can generally feel
them either by my hands or in the region of my spine, even
through a thick deal plank ; the sensation is like that of a
warm current of air playing upon the skin. There are many
who are more or less sensitive to these forces.
I am very glad to see that Hr. Carpenter admits the phe¬
nomena of “ artificial somnambulism (hypnotism) ” and of
“ profound reverie,” called “ biological.” These are merely
some of the phenomena known by the more comprehensive
term of mesmerism, or by the objectionable term of animal
magnetism. As Pr. Carpenter admits these, he is far
advanced on the road that leads to psychic-forcism and
Spiritualism.
If he will experiment upon a good sensitive, he will find
that he can demesmerise his patient as rapidly through a
brick wall as if there were no wall between them. This I
have repeatedly done. Chickens are easily hypnotised, and
at different times I have met with three dogs who at seances
would howl, bark, and run under their owners chairs when
the phenomena were about to begin.
Mr. Crookes has used instrumental means to record the
phenomena so as to eliminate his own mind as much as
possible.
Hr. Hare, of Philadelphia, did likewise; and I have
endeavoured to do so also.
That the phenomena occur there is overwhelming evidence,
and it is too late now to deny their existence. All those
who have closely studied the subject find that these things
occur not only in Europe and America, but also in all other
countries, civilised as well as savage. They have not been
confined to any one century, but seem to be as old as the
human race.
One of the chief difficulties which an inquirer in this
country encounters is the necessity of unlearning a great
deal which is usually accepted without question.
2, Great Winchester-street, London, E.O.
CLAIRVOYANCE AND SPIRIT IDENTITY.*
BT EUGENE CROWELL, H.D.
One of the best clairvoyants and personating mediums
whom I have met, is Hr. 0. T. Buffum, now of Worcester,
Mass. Huring my visit to Moravia in August, 1872, I first
witnessed the facility with which spirits can re-enact the
scenes, and reassume the conditions of their earthly life
through him.
He visited Moravia for the first time while I was there,
and on the evening of the day of his arrival he held a seance
in Mrs. Andrews’ parlours. The persons present were seated
around the rooms, while Hr. Buffum occupied a chair cen¬
trally placed, so that all could see and hear him without
leaving their seats. Upon the sofa where I sat, was Mrs.
Louisa Andrews, of Springfield, Mass., a lady of the highest
respectability, who with her son and sister was on a visit to
Moravia for the same purpose that I was.
At first there were music and singing, and after these had
ceased the medium was controlled by a spirit who claims to
be “ Red Jacket,” the famous Indian Chief. He shook
hands with all present in a very cordial manner, and then
ensued a few moments of silence, when the medium moved
his chair near the table, resting his elbow upon it, and his
head upon his hand, his head slowly sunk backwards, his
countenance assumed a pallid, deathlike hue, while a stream
of foaming saliva flowed from his mouth. Then the other
hand was slowly raised and placed upon his forehead, when
he exclaimed in low faint tones, “ Oh my head!” Just at
this moment the lady before mentioned, Mrs. Andrews, sunk
upon the sofa in a fainting fit, and was carried from the
room. She afterwards said that at that moment she felt as
if she had received a blow upon her head. The medium now
From Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism.
Dec. 1, 1876.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
207
faintly said, M Mother, mother.” There being no response, !|j
after a pause he added, “ Brother,” when the son of Mrs. |||
A advanced, and the medium grasped his hand, which |>|
he pressed, calling him by name, and expressing his joy at Is;
being able to again meet him. He then called for the aunt, jjj
. and upon her advancing he said: “Do not think I am in j)j
pain now; lam only proving my identity.” He gave his ;jsj
name and conversed freely about the cause and manner of jjj1
his death, satisfying both aunt and brother that he was their |j|
deceased relative. Mrs. Andrews afterwards informed me Kj
that her son met his death by the fall of an elevator, upon |) j
which he was standing, his skull being fractured, and the m
appearance and actions of the medium when the spirit was Kj
re-enacting the death scene, were instantly recognised as j)j
precisely like those of the young man in his last moments,
and the words, “ Oh my head!” together with those of jjj
“Mother, mother,” were the only words uttered by him j)j
after the accident. Mrs. Andrews had no doubt that it was ijj
her son who thus manifested. |jl
After this the spirit controlling said he saw “ an old man jjj
dressed as a Quaker, but he was not a Quaker. He appeared I j j
in a broad-brimmed white hat. He was lame, some trouble jj j
about here,” placing his hands upon his hip. “Yes,” said jjj
he, “ his hip was dislocated, and he walked lame, and one jj I
of his feet barely touched the ground.” jjj
He then said that he “ saw a wagon drawn by a grey jj j
horse, there were bags in the wagon, and beside the old man jjl
there was a woman;” that “the horse ran away, and the jjl
old man in attempting to escape by the rear of the wagon jj j
fell upon his hip, and thus received the injury that caused jj
the lameness.” He added that he was uncle to a Mr. jjj
Thompson, there present. jjj
A gentleman of that name now advanced to the medium, j j
and stated that he had recognised the spirit before the de- jjj
scription was completed, and he did not need the announce- jjj
ment of the relationship to satisfy him of his identity. He Ijj
said the description was correct throughout. His uncle was Ijj
on his way to the mill with some bags of grain in his wagon, jjj
and with his wife by his side, when at a certain point on the ijl
road the horse—which was grey—ran away, and his uncle Ijj
in attempting to escape in the manner described met with ijj
the injury, and ever after one limb was shorter than the j|!
other. He said his uncle did dress like a Quaker, but he jjj
was not one, and the white broad-brimmed hat, as described, jj;
was like one that he—Mr. Thompson—had presented to jjj
him, and which he wore during the latter years of his life, jjj
Here Mr. Thompson desired the spirit to give his uncle’s jjj
name, and the reply was satisfactory, so Mr. T testified, jjj
and the latter assured us that he had never before met the jjj
medium. 1)1
After this “ Red Jacket,” in a low quiet voice said, “Lily, jjj
Ihere is a bright spirit present by the name of Lily,” and jjj
upon my wife advancing, he said, “Yes, yes, you are her jjj
mother; she wants to shake your hands,” and then added, jjj
“ She wants to kiss her sister E- ,” who was present, and ijj
upon my little daughter coming forward the medium kissed jjj
her. The medium now said : “ And Eddie also is here” (a jjj
deceased son). I now silently approached, when he pre- jjj
sen ted his hand and said, “ Lily wants to shake hands with jjj
her father,” and while our hands were clasped he remarked, jjj
“ Why, pa, your whiskers do not look as they did when I jji
saw you last.” The fact is, the last time she could have jjj
seen me through the material eyes of a medium was at a jjj
seance for materialising, at Dr. Slade’s, in March, five jjj
months previously, and then my whiskers were dyed brown, jjj
as they had been the previous five years, while now I had jjj
abandoned the use of the dye, and , my whiskers presented j j
their own natural grey appearance. This was a very as- jjj
suring test to us, as it was to others present when I ex- j i
plained as I have here. jjj
Before then I had never met Dr. BufFum, and I was jjj
among strangers, and his remarks could not have been jjj
founded upon personal knowledge of me, and as to his jjj;
having any knowledge of Mrs. Andrews, and of the cause of jjj
her son’s death, or of the symptoms attending his last jjj
moments, she assured me that it was simply impossible for jjj
Dr. Buffum to acquire this knowledge, excepting from jj;
spiritual sources, and I fully believed her to be correct in jjj
her opinion.
As to collusion with Mr. Thompson, this is possible, as at
that time he equally with Dr. Buffum was a stranger to
me, but observing both parties narrowly I became as well
satisfied of sincerity here as in the other instances, and my
numerous subsequent opportunities for estimating correctly
the character of Dr. Buffum, utterly precludes the supposi¬
tion in my mind of his being capable of any deception
whatever, as beside ordinary means of forming a correct
judgment of him, I had peculiarly favourable opportunities
for ten days, during which he was an inmate of my house,
and then, as before and since, I found him to invariably
manifest the traits of character of a highly moral and
honourable man combined with feminine sensibility and
delicacy.
August 27th, a day or two after the public stance above
described, I had a private sitting with the same medium.
It was held in the seance room of Mrs. Mary Andrews, at
Moravia, there being present Dr. Buffum, my wife, daugh¬
ter, and self. “ Red Jacket” controlled and kindly greeted
us. After some conversation with him relating to certain
fraudulent physical manifestations near that town, which
he emphatically condemned, he said : “ Your son Clarence
is present, also Lily, and Clarence will try to show him¬
self at the lower opening of the cabinet before you leave
Moravia. John and Eddie also are here, and they will
have a wreath of flowers for E , their sister. Lily de¬
sires me to say, that if you will have a chair set at your
table, at home, for her, she will move it, assisted by Harry.
He is the strongest.” My wife here inquired whom they
resembled, and he replied,: “Eddie and Clarence resemble
their father, and Harry resembles you.”
The names of four of my deceased children were here
given, and the resemblance of three of them to their parents
correctly described. He then resumed: “ There is a little
spirit present who calls Lizzie ” (my wife’s name being
Elizabeth). “ Her name is Ann, and she is your sister;
she has been in spirit-life a good many years.” I asked
what her complexion was, and pointing upwards, he replied:
“ Her eyes are blue as heaven, and she has curling golden
hair. She desires to shake hands with her sister.”
He continued: “ There is a bright squaw present, with
such a pretty little babe that never was in earth life. The
mother went with the babe.”
Still addressing my wife, he said: “ There is another
sister of yours present, whose name was —after some
difficulty this was given—“ M . She had great distress
about the throat and chest,” and here he coughed to show
her manner of coughing. “ She suffered much in earth-
life, but does not suffer now.” The medium then seized the
hand of my wife, and, shaking it, remarked: “ She says
she is very happy in her spirit home.”
After an interval of some minutes he again said : “ Old
squaw with four eyes is here.” I asked what he meant by
this phrase, when he explained by saying, “ She has spec¬
tacles. She was very old but very smart,” and added : “ I
see another tall squaw here, grandmother also to your squaw.
She died of a tumour in her side; when it broke she died.
She suffered long in this life.” My wife here remarked that
it must be grandmother F , when he said, “ Yes, she
says it is her.”
He then said: “ Brave, your mother-squaw is here with
your uncle ‘ Sammon.’ ” I suggested Zalmon. “ That is
it, and he often impresses you in business affairs. He con¬
tinued : “ There is a sister of yours present who calls herself
Maria. She is very bright and young-looking. She passed
away young, and she says she will soon show herself to you
at your own wigwam, like the other one did. And she says
she often passes her hand over your forehead and eyes when
asleep, so that you may see them. Your sister Charlotte
also is here, and she says she will try to come with Maria
or afterward, and show herself to you.”
I now inquired whether my sister Charlotte had ever
appeared to me? and he replied, “Yes.” I inquired
when and where, and he answered, “ doing, going on a
journey. I see trees, water, and bridges, and a railroad
car. There is a bed with curtains around it. Yes, she
appeared to you in a car, and patted your forehead to
awaken you, and moved the curtains so that you could see
her.” I asked what made her look so serious at that time,
08
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 1, 1876.
and the answer was: “ Because she was so anxious for you
to see her, and the next time she will show herself more
plainly than then.”
My wife now inquired why she did not see spirits as
readily as I, and he said it was owing to a ditference in the
•formation of the brain, “ here,” passing his fingers over his
brows and the lower portion of his forehead.
He then said: “ Eugene, John, and Lily, and all the
others send their love to C and F who are in the
form.” Brothers now living on earth.
I asked if our two eldest sons were present, and. he
replied : “ Eugene—Why is not that curious ? it is the
hardest name I have had yet—and John are here. Katie
squaw tells me the names ; she is the strongest.” He then
bdded: “ They tell me to say they are all happy, and all
together, and they have a beautiful home, and are preparing
a beautiful wigwam for the squaw when she comes.”
After a few minutes he exclaimed, <{ Jennie! I hear
-the name Jennie. Who is she?” We said we had no
friend of that name, and he replied: “ It is no relation of
yours. “ Oh,’ said he, “ It is for the brave that was with
you ” (Mr. B.). We replied, we did not know of any relative
of his of that name. He continued : u Ella and her mother
squaw stand by me, and desires you to take her love to the
brave, and to the Auntie that does not live with him, but
who often comes to the wigwam.” After a moment he
added: “There is a relation here of the brave, who died in
the waters. He was a cousin, or something like that, who
sends his love to the brave, and Auntie, and the mother
squaw.” “Don’t you remember when I called ‘Birdie’
the other night (at the public seance of Mrs. Andrews)—it
Was for the brave that went a little hour before. His squaw
was there, and wanted him. He went too soon.” He then
requested us to “surely take the message to the brave,” and
bidding us farewell the medium resumed his natural state.
: To apply the tests to all the facts here presented would
require as much space as the narration itself, but I will
present some of them. I have in spirit life a son
by the name of Clarence, also a daughter whose name
was Caroline, but who through every genuine medium
comes- to us as “ Lily,” the name bestowed upon her
in spirit life. The names of two others are John and
Edgar, or Eddie, as we always called him. Eddie and
Clarence, like myself, had grey eyes and brown hair,
while Harry, another of our children, now living with
the angels, had very dark eyes and hair, like his mother.
His name Was given through the medium properly as Harry,
not Henry, the former being bis baptismal name. It will
be seen that thus far the correct names of five of our chil¬
dren were given.
The little spirit “ Ann,” my wife’s sister, passed away
before the birth of my wife, and must have attained her full
stature in spirit life long since; but, like it often is with
spirits when returning, she chose to be represented as a
child, for as such only would her mother, or even her sister,
be able to recognise her. The description of her “ eyes blue
as heaven, and golden curling hair,” was fully endorsed by
her mother upon our return home, she having been the only
child of eight with the complexion of a blonde. My wife
until then had not known the complexion of her sister, and
this to us was a remarkable test.
The next is the “ bright squaw with such a pretty little
babe. The mother went with the babe.” All true. Then
the announcement of the presence of my sister-in-law
M—-, with the description of the symptoms of her ill¬
ness—equally true. Then the old lady answering for my
wife’s grandmother ; and still another tall spirit—not repre¬
sented as aged, but still her grandmother also, and who for
sixteen years had a tumour in her side, which suppurated, and
finding vent internally caused her death. This description
was strictly correct, and corresponded precisely with that of
the same spirit through Mr. Foster, as narrated in the first
volume of this work. Then the announcement of the presence
of my uncle Zalmon, and my sisters Maria and Charlotte,
and the reference by my-"Sister Maria to the apparition of
“ the < ther one,” my daughter at my “ wigwam,” all these
allusions being strictly applicable and convincing proofs.
Then comes the account from my .sister Charlotte of the
i ircumstances under which she appeared to me in the sleeping
| I coach, on my journey from California, while on the plains of
j ! Nevada. After this three of my children in spirit life,
| I Eugene, John, and Lily, send their love to my two sons in
| | earth life, mentioning the names of the latter while they
•] ! were hundreds of miles distant, the medium never having
| | heard of them, and lastly, answering our questions as to our
1 | eldest spirit children, by giving the correct names of the
j | eldest two. All these were facts that we could verify on the
I I instant, and they constituted a mass of evidence that was
I ] sufiScient of itself to convince us of their presence, but as if
to render the evidence still stronger, the last of the seance
| | was varied by the addition of the message from Ella and
j i her mother Jennie to the “brave ” who “ went a little hour
j | before.”
1| This referred to a gentleman of standing and respectability
| in Brooklyn, whose acquaintance I had recently made, and
I who, until his visit to Moravia, had little or no faith in
j spirit intercourse, and but little more in spiritual existence,
j He had left Moravia just before Dr. Buffum’s arrival, and,
j consequently, had not met him, and after his departure the
j name as referred to by “Red Jacket” was called in Mrs.
| | Andrews’ stance.
I j The reader will notice that when the medium said
| i “Jennie,” we failed to recognise the name, as we after-
|| wards did the name “ Ella,” when this was mentioned, and
| I it was only after our return home, and upon my delivering
IJ the message to my friend, we found they were the names
|1| respectively of his deceased wife and child. A cousin of
! I his father had died by drowning, and we presume it was
| | this spirit who was present at this seance, and who desired
I to make himself known. There probably was some special
j | difficulty in giving his name, as names, for some reason, are
I I often difficult to communicate. Spirits say they possess a
| I positive character, or quality, a reflection of personality, which
| | sometimes renders it impossible to give them,
m The reader will also perceive that sixteen of my deceased
I | relatives were described, and either the names or degrees of
j j relationship given,—and in addition the names of my two
| | living sons were announced. Also the names of the spirit
| | wife and child of my friend, Mr. B , in all twenty per-
|| sons, and not a single mistake made in a name, nor error in
|j| description, nor a name announced which was not imme-
| | diately recognised, if we except the names of the wife and
I ! child of Mr. B .
I would add that the promised wreath of spirit flowers was
| i presented for our inspection at our next private stance with
!>j Mrs. Andrews, at which Dr. Buffum was not present, but I
| | have not yet seen my sisters, Maria and Charlotte, at my
| j own house as promised. Spirits often over-estimate their
j j power.
| | August 30, 1872, T had another seance with Dr. Buffum
j j at Moravia. Besides myself, there were present my wife
| | and daughter. “ Red Jacket ” soon controlled the medium,
II (i and said two spirits, sisters of mine, Maria and Charlotte,
| were present. After some conversation with these spirits of a
| private nature, that satisfied us of their identity, he said an
| old man with silvery white hair and beard was present. “ He
| is your grandfather Stewart.” The description and name
| were correct. After some questions and answers, the latter
correct, so far as we could verify them, he said: “ There is
| present a large man, who is father to your wife. He is
I called Captain, there, and is a very happy, jovial spirit, and
| he sends his love to your v/ife’s mother.” This description
nj was correct. While on earth his ruddy brown complexion
j(l and portly figure were suggestive of a sea life, and many
j persons who were slightly acquainted with him, called him
| | Captain. He possessed strong social qualities, and was ex-
| j tremely hospitable.
“ Red Jacket ” now said : “ Katie squaw is present,
111 I and wants your squaw to tell her husband to sit with his
j brother Ed. and their mother, and Aunt Sarah. Ed. is a
I medium, and they will get raps from her, and she will be
| able to communicate with them. She also sends her love to
I Aunt Sarah, and their mother.” This was amazingly like
i conversing with the so-called dead. Had I been ignorant of
| the source from which this knowledge came, I should cer-
| tainly have been compelled to believe that it came from the
l|| spirit professing to communicate it, or should have invented
‘ ' a temporary devil,'—^for this time only,” as the author of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
209
Dec. 1, 1876.
it, as these were all names of her relatives by marriage, and
we had not mentioned them, with the exception of the
husband, nor even thought of the persons themselves, and,
so far as we know, no person then in Moravia was from our
section of the State.
While Dr. Buffum was visiting me at my residence,
subsequently to my meeting him at. Moravia, I invited to
meet him a Mr. and Mrs. M . • Neither of. them
had ever heard of this medium, as he had never
resided in or near New York, and when they met it was as
strangers. Beside the parties named, there were present the
members of my family, and myself.
In the course of the evening the medium was controlled
by his attendant spirit, and after other remarks, he said a
spirit by the name of William was present, that he was tall
and slender, that he formerly followed the sea; that while
on ship-board he received a severe blow that affected his
lungs, and ultimately caused his death. ~ Mr. M here in-.
quired who gave the blow, and the answer was, it was
received in a scuffle with the first officer. He did not die on
ship, but returned home and died there. He suffered
greatly and became much emaciated, and had hemorrhage
from the lungs. He said he was the brother of Mr. M ,
not own brother, but he married his sister. Mr. M in¬
quired if the spirit could tell him whether William’s wife
was living, and whether there were any children. The reply
was : “ She is alive, and has a little boy about six years of
age, and he was named after his father.”
The medium then turned to Mrs. M and said there
was a little boy present by the name of Willie, that he was
her cousin, and died from an affection of the throat;
cancerous sore throat; that he was about two years of age
when he passed away, and if he had lived to the present
time he would have been between six and seven years of
age. The medium then added : r William says his wife is
about to marry again, and he is much pleased with this step,
as it will be the means of giving her and her little son a good
home.”
After the stance Mr. and Mrs. M , whom I know to
be strictly reliable, assured me that in every particular the
personal descriptions and circumstances were correct. I can
perceive no weak point in this case, and there are sound
reasons why it should be accepted in evidence of clairvoyant
vision, and of spirit intercourse. The medium had never
before visited Brooklyn, and now had done so at my request,
and was my guest. I purposely sought and invited Mr.
and Mrs. M , they not seeking the occasion, and it
occurred at my own house, under my own eyes, and in pur¬
suance of arrangements I had made, so that collusion or
deception was out of the question so far as they were
concerned.
It is easy for a person who has not witnessed similar
manifestations to deny these things, or, if the facts be
admitted, to attempt to account for them upon strictly philo¬
sophical or metaphysical principles, and this may be a satis¬
factory solution for those who, having no personal experience
of such things, cannot possibly realise and comprehend
them ; but no one who has had any considerable experience
of a similar character, can accept any such explanation, as
he knows it utterly fails to account for them. There are
occasionally to be found individuals. in whose experience
certain manifestations have occurred, and yet who seek no
explanation, their minds being so constituted that they de¬
mand none; but where those who have witnessed such
manifestations laboriously to seek a solution, they are never
satisfied with any but that which involves spiritual agency.
Several letters not posted in good time have reached us too late for
publication this week.
' Mr'.'J. J. Morse in the North.—On Sunday last, November 26th,
Mr. Morse concluded his engagement for the delivery of twelve
inspirational lectures, during sis months, in Halifax. The meetings
were well attended. On Sunday next he will deliver two addresses in
the Old Freemasons’ Hall, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne : that
in the afternoon at 3—subject: “From Heaven to Earth;” evening
at 7—subject: “ The Genesis of Matter.” Also, at the same place, on
Monday evening, December 4th, he will deliver an address on “ The
Ethics of Spiritualism.” His other engagements for this year are:
Oldham, Dec. 10th, 12th, and 14th ; Manchester, Dec. 17th ; New
Mills, Dec. 18th; Wolverhampton, Dec. 19th; London, Dec. 24th and
31st. - -
DR. FORBES WINSLOW ON MAD SPIRITUALISTS.
We recently called attention to the imaginary statistics
q printed by Dr. Forbes Winslow (the son of the well-known
Ii practitioner of that name), about the vast number of Spirit-
j ualists and mediums alleged by him to be in madhouses,
i and stated that we do not know of one at present in any
| lunatic asylum in this country.
The Weekly Times, in a review of Dr. Winslow’s mounte-
| ■ bank pamphlet, says :—
([ There is a class of medical practitioners who have made mental
(j disorders—or, to be more correct, the symptoms of mental disorder—
their special study, and among these Dr. Forbes Winslow holds a high
/1 rank. But “mad doctors,” as they are vulgarly called, are by no
(; means infallible, and are far from being decided as to what does or
) | does not constitute unsoundness of mind. Those who remember the
\ | Wyndham case will also remember how “ expert ” opposed “ expert,”
I to the bewilderment of the jury and the disgust of the public, when
less science and a little moi’e common sense were all that the subject
required. Dr. F. Winslow has taken up “Spiritualism,” and written
j a pamphlet on it “ without prejudice ; ” but considering that he tells
| us nothing that was not known before, and that “ Spiritualists ” will
declare much of it to be irrelevant, he would have done well to have
kept silent. A weak advocate spoils a good cause, and Messrs. Slade
11 and Co. can desire no feebler antagonist than the Editor of the Journal
11 j 'of Psychological Medicine. We will say nothing of the style, nor of
the occasional bad grammar, nor of the constant use of media for
mediums, nor of his translating “ man enfant ” by “ my infant; ’ ’
I sound reasoning would make amends for heaps of such offences against
good taste; but, unfortunately, sound reasoning is absent froin the
[] pamphlet. What has The Devil's Sonata to do with “ Spiritualism,”
j | unless the Doctor means us to conclude that every dream is “ Spiritual-
(j istic?” Joan of Arc was not a “ Spiritualist,” nor was Tasso. Hal-
|| lucination has nothing to do with “Spiritualism,” though it may
U indicate a certain unsoundness of mind. The modern doctrine of
(j Spiritualism is just this : that the spirits of the dead are always about
j us, and that for a guinea (more or less) we may be brought into com-
I munication with them by the agency of certain persons who call them-
(i selves mediums. What has this in common with the Dancing Mania,
11 the Nuns of Loudon, the Convulsionnaires, or the’ “ Abraham-men?’’
| j Whether Dr. Torralba conversed with spirits, or the Abbess of Cordova
(| worked miracles, has nothing to do with the question. They might be
11 deceived, or they might be impostors; but assuredly their cases have
i nothing in common with dancing chairs or moving tables, spirit writing,
levitation, or ghost whistling. The former are acknowledged states of
| the mind; the latter, hanky-panky tricks that have not been found
out.
Fully recognising the good intentions of Dr. Winslow in publishing
j this pamphlet, we are forced to object to. many things in it. What,
(i for instance, are we to make of this passage :—
)! During the fifteenth century all nations were pltmged in superstition and ignor-
(j ance, carried away by a firm belief in magic and intercourse with the invisible
(j world, which was Spiritualism, as it is so-called at the present day; but these
(! unhappy people were condemned, as maniacs, witches, and impostors, to the flames.
(j Thus we see that three hundred years ago the real condition of these individuals
(• was understood.
) I Does the author mean that these persons were rightly burnt to death ?
(! And would he convey the idea that witchcraft was an objective reality,
> 1 and that Mother Sbipton actually did ride through the air on a broom-
\ | stick ? If their condition was understood, the Doctor must mean
\ \ rightly understand, otherwise he writes nonsense; for to understand a
11 thing wrongly is to misunderstand, which was really the case with the
) | authorities of the fifteenth century.
OPINIONS ABOUT SPIRITUALISM.
11 The prospectus of the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into
(| Spiritualism contains the following quotations upon its front page:—
l\ But even in the most cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud,
) I if it be no bigger than a man’s hand: it is modern Spiritualism.—Lord
5! Brougham.
(j The world at large ridicules that which it does not understand. . .
h That Spiritual phenomena exist, any man possessed*o£ common sense
) | can prove for himself by experiment.— Cromwell F.t-Varley.
(| I have tried to find out how they (phenomena) are done, but the more
)! I studied them the more satisfied was I that they could not be explained
)j by mere mechanical trick. I have had the fullest opportunity for
j | investigation.—Lord Lindsay.
11 And this fact of Spiritualism will yet be grasped as with a death-bed
) | clutch of the delivering hand that reaches down to lift us into new life.
(| — Gerald Massey. “
j| I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and heard, in a
/; manner which should make unbelief impossible, things called Spiritual,
{| which cannot be taken by a rational being to be capable of explanation
) i by imposture, coincidence, or mistake.—Professor de Morgan.
(| How pure in heart and sound in head,
(| With what divine affections bold,
) | Should be the man whose thoughts would hold
(j An hour’s communion with the dead.—Tennyson.
I' i It would startle some people to discover in how many royal palaces in
Europe it (Spiritualism) is firmly seated, and with what vigour it is
diffusing itself through all ranks and professions of men, who do not
care to make much noise about it—men and women of literary, reli¬
gious, and scientific fame.— William Howitt,
2i6
THE SPltllttALlST.
Deo. 1, 1876.
(> | y^/s>.
Hs^TP^P 6 PV tOL$ O^r^XTe'^' SLJ'lCLvJ'TjZ (J)
fictatU Stv yev^irjtco
Zo ^XjjUzC ZfoV, dif efr()'Lvdj) X** <2?t ryf
vvr6t/^ yyztjv zer iTUoVfrov i)^lv S^tpov.
S&C^' r<i 0?eaii“«*~ j'ttZr.'JfXat
ritclr^^r /tCiion^ov, cLU<l
_ | > » tv* CSrcV'jj'tfo.eacU
“«V ■‘f''“' ’>'■'•<•-«>»’>'‘<‘«>-<”
GREEK WRITING THROUGH DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
The writing in the accompanying cut is a fac-simile of that
which was obtained upon one of Dr. Slade’s slates in the
presence of Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Parkfield, Didsbury, near
Manchester. Mr. Blackburn states that in broad daylight a
crumb of pencil was placed||on the top of the table, and a
clean slate turned face downwards over the pencil. The four
sitters, including Dr.^Slade, then joined their hands, with the
exception that Dr. Slade placed one of his hands upon the
top of one corner of the slate, whilst Miss Cook, at the other
end of the chain of sitters, placed one of her hands upon the
opposite corner. Dr. Slade sat sideways, and his feet were in
sight all the time. Soon they heard the pencil hard at work
and the message seemed to be a long one, for the writing
could be heard going on for five or six minutes; then it
ceased, and raps came upon the table. The slate was turned
up and found to be full of Greek writing. Mr. Blackburn
Wrapped up the slate in his handkerchief, and carried it to
•the rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, where
it is now framed under glass and is on public view. The
writing is the dry dusty writing of slate pencil. The sitters
Were Mr. Charles Blackburn, Mrs. Henry Cook, of Hackney,
Miss Kate S. Cook, and Dr. Slade.
We have received the following letters on the subject of
Greek writing through Dr. Slade’s mediumship :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sm,—Critics of the Greek writing on this slate have been
led to consider it spurious, by reason that it contains a pas¬
sage, “ for thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory,
for ever and ever,” which is undoubtedly no essential part of
the Lord’s Prayer. Let us therefore examine what ground
there is for this opinion.
The doxology is omitted in Cardinal Mai’s edition (Yetus
e.t novum testamentum ex antiquissimo codice Yaticano, vol.
v., p. 10. Rome. 1857).
In Matt, vi., 9 et seq., the Yulgate edition ends with
“ Et ne nos inducas in tentationem; sed libera nos a malo ”;
while the latter clause is left out in Luke xi., 2.
Of course, as the original Hebrew of the Mattheeine gospel
is lost, and as we are told by S. Jerome that Matthew “ evan-
gelium in Judaea Hebraeo sermone edidit,” and subsequently
r quod quis postea in graecum transtulerit, non satis certum
est,” the discovery of the original Hebrew, which in S.
Jerome’s time existed in the library of the Caesars, may throw
some unforeseeen light on this subject.
The Doxology was first quoted in the apostolical consti¬
tutions (third century). Several of the fathers, as Tertullian,
Origen, Cyprian, who have written at length on the passage,
make no mention of the Doxology.
On the other hand, the Constantinople version and the
recensions of Griesbach, Scholz, Lachmann, and Tischen-
dorff, include it.
The passage itself, therefore, was no doubt spurious, but
is found to occur in some respectable texts, and to have
been copied (I believe) in the Protestant vernacular render¬
ing, as well as in the French, German, and Italian versions
given in Lee’s Polyglot Bible.
! | There are many persons, living and deceased, to whom
11 these words are familiar, and their occurrence in the Lord’s
| i Prayer should create but little surprise. Of course to myself,
| j the same jar to the nerves is produced as that which exists
11 when I see “ Our Father, which—” adopted as the proemium
!)| of an exercise sanctioned by the London School Board. The
$ sceptic will no doubt remark that in the petition—“ Give us
| | this day our daily bread,” the initial tov is written tov, and
I this appears to have been an error of handwriting.
The mode of construction of the <j!> is precisely identical
| | with that of many German and Dutch printed Greek works
| j of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and dissimilar
I; from that which is in current use at the present time. -It
II appears, therefore, that the present inscription shows
11 characters which are perfectly consonant with and agreeable
11 to those which might be presented in the handwriting of a
11 Dutch medical man living at Manhattan (New York) in the
|)| earlier part of the eighteenth century. The dissimilarity of
j j the present writing to that which has been given in Dr.
I Slade’s presence to the Hon. R. Dale Owen and others,
| | is, to my mind, convincing of the variability and consequent
II genuineness of the manifestation. C. Carter Blake.
|li To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist,"
Sir,—There is one point about the Greek version of
I I Matt. v. 43-45 which Mr. Dale Owen obtained on a slate
!|| through Dr. Slade’s mediumship which is worth noting.
|! The character of the writing is that of one accustomed to
II write Greek. The letters are slurred in formation, as would
1(1 be the case supposing them to be the production of a prac-
11 tical Greek scholar: they are not laboriously and clumsily
| | imitated, as would be the case if they were copied by one
I j ignorant of the language.
The Greek letters formed on Mr. Wedgwood’s closed
| | slates are of a more perfect character, and seem to me to be
II formed by a different hand.
Mr. Gledstanes, during his brief visit to London the
|l| other day, showed me a slate containing Greek characters
11 formed precisely like those on Mr. Wedgwood’s slates, and
I j signed in the same manner. His slate also contained
l|| writing that seemed toLe Turkish. M.A., Oxon.
I)| To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
IH Sir,—I have read with the deepest interest the account in
|j a recent number of your journal, of Mr. R. Dale Owen’s
1j! most remarkable sitting with Dr. Slade, and am particularly
IH struck by the Greek writing obtained. I should be glad to
ijj know whether the lines are a facsimile of the photograph of
i|| the original document, as there are one or two points which
lead one to the question.
For instance, in the heading, the number of the chapter
|j! seems to be clearly an “ 8,” though the verses are in the 5th
|| chapter of the Gospel.
Then the first letter in the second line is distinctly a
||| /c (kappa), but the word is 'KK'qcribv with a w (pi), meaning
|)| “ neighbour,” in the fourth word of the same line the /*(mu)
j|i is written without its “tail” and joined to the i (iota)
n so—iu>. In the fifth line the first letter is a % (chi) where
Deg. 1, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
211
there ahould be a a: (kappa) ; a, the eighth letter of the same
word is an i (iota) instead of an e (epsilon).
In the next, line the first letter is again a n instead of a tt ;
a, the last of the word, an 9 (sigma) instead of an e. The
next line wants a v (nu) at the end of it. In the last line
but one the second letter of the fourth word is an o (omicron)
instead of a p (rho), or otherwise, its “ tail ” has been
omitted.
In the last line the three kV (kappas) have come to grief,
the first and third being represented by a while the second
seems to be a tt.
These things are the more curious when taken with the
great accuracy otherwise, even in the punctuation. I do not
notice the accents, as it is noted that they were not always
present in the original; but of those that are, some are per¬
fectly correct, while others are not so.
These ie clerical errors ” would seem to indicate that the
writing had been copied by some one who knew the Greek
characters, but, not knowing the words, was apt, when the
letter was indistinct, to substitute another, of somewhat
similar form, not appreciating the difference.
If the print is a facsimile of the photograph, the only pos¬
sible explanation is that the spirit whose materialized hand
wrote the lines copied them; from some manuscript,
probably.
I think you will agree with me that there is internal
evidence that the lines were not written by one familiar with
the original; this is interesting in connection with the
description of the female form of the hand which wrote, as a
lady (unless of ancient times) would not be so likely to be
intimately acquainted with the Greek text.
This might be a great help in other cases towards testing
identity and statements made, and I should be glad if others
who have received Greek or foreign inscriptions (especially
where they were unknown to the medium), would report
their observations on the literal accuracy in cases like the
present. H. Kingston.
Edinburgh, November 7th.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
Chairman—Mr. Alex. Calder.
Honorary Treasurers-—Mr. J. E. Jones, Enmore-park, S.E.; Dr. George
Wyld, 12, Great Cumborland-place, Hyde-park, W.
W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., 0. 0; Massey.
, Hon. Secretary—Mr. A. Joy, 69, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee, held on
Monday last, the 27th inst., subscriptions in England were
reported to the amount of £288. About £58 has also been
subscribed in the United States.
Mr. W. P. Adshead, of Belper, had sent in a list of sub¬
scriptions which he had collected, amounting in all to
£6 11s. Perhaps others may feel disposed to follow this
good example.
The committee decided that with reference to future legal
proceedings in the Slade case, the committee shall not make
itself in any way responsible to any one but Dr. Slade for
any expenses which may be incurred therein. Of course the
committee will in no case make itself responsible for more
than the amount of the subscriptions received.
£5 was awarded to the Editor of The Spiritualist in part
compensation for expenses which he has incurred.
The committee will meet again at 4 p.m. on Monday
next.
Answers have been received from the following persons as
consenting to allow their names to appear on the Honorary
Committee : Mrs. Makdougall Gregory ; Messrs. J. Bulteel,
T. E. Partridge, J. N. T. Martheze, H. D. Jencken, Sir C.
Isham, Bart.; Messrs. W. Stainton-Moses, Benj. Coleman,
S. T. Speer, M.D., James Burns, Morell Theobald, T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S., H. Bielfeld, W. P. Adshead, E. D. Rogers,
and A. Smedley.
It is to be hoped that these ladies and gentlemen will
assist in raising subscriptions. A. Joy, Hon. Sec.
Just before going to press the news has reached us that the American con¬
tributions to the Spiritualists’ Defence Fund already amount to £200.
j l SLATE-WRITING THROUGH A CHILD MEDIUM.
I! The Banner of Light publishes the following:—
||j “ The spirit of Essie Mott, daughter of J. H. and Mary
i I V. Mott, of Memphis, Mo., left its mortal form October 18th,
| | after a lingering illness, at the close of five years and eleven
I I months of earthly life. Essie was a child, spiritually ad-
j j vanced far beyond her years, and as a medium had given
j j some of the most wonderful tests ever witnessed. Before
j j | she was two years old she would hold the slate under the
If table, with no mortal hand but hers near it, and many a
if | message has been written on it in that way to inquiring
m friends, when she did not know a letter of the alphabet.
|if For the last two years her. parents have not allowed her to
I f be used as a medium, believing it injured her physical sys-
| | tem, which was very slender and delicate, while her mind
! i was far in advance of her years. I was called by telegram
| I from my labours in Iowa to attend the funeral, and we had
the large Court-house (no church being offered us) crowded
{]] on Sunday, the 22nd, to listen to a discourse on the life,
If | death, and immortality of Essie Mott.—Warren Chase.”
THE PRESENT POSITION OF SPIRITUALISM,
jlj Now that the persecution of mediums and the abuse of the daily
is| press are directing, attention to Spiritualism, there is a spirit of inquiry
|)| abroad such as has never before been known, in this country, and the
|| | rise in circulation of the Spiritual periodicals far exceeds the average
Is I rate of progress. As the interest increases, the means of gratifying it
|)| diminish, for the two or three professional mediums for physical mani-
|( | festations will not sit for strangers, without they come with friendly and
|| | good introductions. This is the time, then, for the public to be in-
|j | structed how to form circles in their own homes. Many such new
j ! circles will get the manifestations, and away at once goes all respect for
111 those newspapers and mountebanks of science who have been preaching
l) I that the phenomena do not occur: the facts soon destroy the reputations
I of the scientific materialists and atheists, who are now in such an angry
||| state at the proofs palpable of immortality springing up on all sides,
j(| To hasten the enlightenment of the public, we have had large leaflets
||| printed for distribution, containing the evidence given in defence of Dr.
i|! Slade, and instructions how to form spirit circles at home, together with
!j! other interesting matter. They have been found by Spiritualists to be
||| just what the public require, so are being bought up in large quantities
1 | by local societies and private individuals. In addition to those distri-
i i bated in London, 5,000 have been ordered for Newcastle, 2,000 for
||| Manchester, 2,000 for Glasgow, 1,000 for Derby, 1,000 for Birmingham,
j | 1,000 for Liverpool, and 1,000 for Wolverhampton. They should be
iji used in every town in the country, to raise up new mediums. They
fj I can be had from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, at 15s. per
j/i thousand, carriage unpaid, or post-free, at 2s. per hundred; a few
i i specimens will be sent on receipt of a penny stamp.
HOW MANY APPLES DID ADAM AND EYE EAT?
j); Some say Eve 8 and Adam 2—a total of 10 only. Now we figure
jtj the thing out far different. Eve 8 and Adam 8 also—total, 16.—
[ Boston Journal. We think the above figures are entirely wrong.' If
|)| Eve 8 and Adam 82, certainly the total will be 90. Scientific men,
j(j however, on the strength of the theory that the antediluvians were a
Hi race of giants, and consequently great eaters, reason something like
| | this:—Eve 81st, and Adam 82—total, 163.— Gloucester Advertiser.
Kj Wrong again; what could be clearer than if Eve 8-1-lst, and Adam
Hi 8-1-2, would not the whole be 1,623 ?—Boston Journal. I believe the
j/j following to be the true solution:—Eve 8-1-4 Adam, Adam 8-1-2-4
j) | Eve—total, 8,698.— Veritas. Still another calculation is as follows :—
1) | If Eve 8-1-4 Adiim, Adam 8-1-2-4-2 oblige Eve—total, 82,056. We
| | think, however, this is not a sufficient quantity ; for though we admit
|) S that Eve 8-1-4 Adam, Adam if he 80-8-l-2-4-2keep Eve company—total,
pi 1,082,056.—N. Y. Mail. You do the fair thing by Adam, brother,
Hi but you slight Eve. This poor smit-IO-1-8-1-4-2 please the serpent, and
|(| Adam, of course, if he, as good husbands do, oft-10-80-8-l72-4-2
||| keep Eve company—total, 109,099,384. — Syracuse Journal. The
j(| American newspaper calculators, with the savagery of all other his-
j)| torians, meanly stigmatise the woman. Adam, the mere dupe,Jacked
ij | the nobility to try a dangerous experiment first, but Eve ate an hpple
|\| for dinner. Adam, forgetting the injury to many an unborn 1,000,000-
*)i 8-1-40-2. 1-0-4-2-8-10,000,000 times more, that' coward—true total,
j j 1,000,000,814,021,042,919,099,384.—The Spiritualist.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SOIREE.
|! j On Wednesday next, December . 6th, a reception will be given
I i to Mrs. Kane and Mrs. Jencken at the soiree oi the National
Hi Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, London.
]V| These two ladies, better known as Maggie and Katie Fox, were
Hi the earliest instruments for the modern spirit manifestations, and
Hi are still the greatest rapping mediums in the world. They hold
j/i a unique place in the history of Spiritualism, and their names will
| j| remain as historic monuments in relation to one of the greatest move-
i I ments of modern times. Mr. Calder, President of the National Assb-
| ciation of Spiritualists, and Mr, H. D. Jencken, will address a few
t\l words to the meeting.
212 THE SPIRITUALIST; Deo. 1, 1876.
DR. SLADE’S TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP.
(F?'om the “ Banner of Light,” Nov. 11th.')
Of all the Spiritualistic phenomena which I have wit¬
nessed, I have found none more impressive and satisfactory
than the independent speaking. Even when the voice is
only a whisper, or when, from other causes, it is not recog¬
nisable as that of the returning spirit whose name is given,
the manner of speaking and the modes of expression are
sometimes strikingly characteristic. To suppose that
emanations from the medium could produce such
voices, and impersonate, in so remarkable a manner, indi¬
viduals whom he never saw, would be to me incomparably
more difficult than to believe the affirmations made in these
. spoken words, and receive them as the utterances of our
spirit friends. They declare in tones so earnest as to
inspire conviction that they are such spirits, and sometimes
manifest peculiarities of thought or diction so marked—
giving in some cases names and dates unknown to any
person present—that to conceive of them as a mere force
proceeding from the medium, or from those forming the
circle, would be to me simply impossible.
There is a satisfaction in hearing the independent voice
which is wanting, as a general thing, in listening to trance
speaking.
From the written and spoken communications made to me
through Dr. Slade, I have selected the following as likely
to be interesting and instructive to readers of the Banner.
On the morning of May 9th, the following was written
on the inside of a double slate:—
“ Dear Madam,—I am with you in thought and action
with regard to these very important truths. The grave of
ignorance shall be dug deep and wide, and the bright sun¬
shine of wisdom and truth come to all, so that sighing and
sorrowing shall flee away, and eyes and ears be opened to
the light and the wisdom of the angel world.
“ You shall hear more from me soon. If I can I will say
something through Slade, which you may write down.-—I
am, very truly your friend, i Wm. White.”
Almost immediately after this was written, the medium
rose to his feet, and in a very impressive manner delivered
the following address:—
“ I, William White, have come according to promise, to
control this medium, and to speak to you through him. I
am going to compare the human brain to the key-board of a
piano. I have controlled, I may say, hundreds of mediums,
in order to discover how far I could identify myself as
William White, through various brains and organisations.
Brains vary in capacity like different instruments. Some
pianos have over seven octaves, some only five or six. If
you attempt to perform on the more limited instrument
music written for the seven-octave piano, your hearer will
say—4That is not the piece I heard before; it is not the
same thing at all.’ So, when I have spoken through a
medium whose brain was of small capacity, the outcry of
imposture has been at once raised, simply because I could
not play the tune of William -White on the five-octave
piano. In other cases where the brain has been of greater
capacity I have been able to express myself more perfectly,
and it has been said—‘ There are some things in this address
like William White, and others not like him, and we do not
know what to think*;’ while sometimes the larger brain
offered me all the notes I required, and the verdict was at
once passed—{This is evidently William White. We recog¬
nise his identity.’ . Nevertheless, I had as truly, though not
so fully, manifested in one case as in the other, and the
medium was no more responsible than I for the imperfection
of the manifestation.
ff There are to-day hundreds of Spiritualists who are
ready to brand i Impostor’ on the brow of innocent mediums
who, through lack of power, or through adverse conditions,
fail to give the ample satisfaction that is required. Very
often, too, the medium is the victim of the positive and un¬
friendly influences of those in the circle who are the first to
cast suspicion and blame upon the poor sensitive soul, on
account of results which they have themselves brought about.
When I see so many mediums suffering in this way, it
brings me to the front to labour earnestly and honestly in
their behalf, and for the cause of truth; and to give my aid
| ! to those who, like yourself, are on the side of justice and of
if mercy .; and I will do all in my power to strew your path
Hi with flowers, that you may be left free to work for the truth.
I i Tell Mr. Colby to go on, full of faith and courage. Deep
Hj waters are still and smooth. It is the shallow stream that
ill seethes, and boils, and is full of angry commotion. Let the
| | true friends of Spiritualism work faithfully in the cause,
-ijl' and believe that the truth will triumph.”
I I On this subject of mediumship one of Slade’s band also
| | spoke, while entrancing the medium. As he was desirous
||| that I should remember and take down, what he said, I wrote
j j immediately every word I could remember. In the course of
ill conversation with the medium and my sister, I had just
| | lamented the treatment received by mediums at the hands
| | of those who would be by no means willing to plead ignorance
m\ as an excuse for a course which it would be hard to justify
|j| on other grounds. The controlling spirit spoke earnestly
ill and eloquently, saying:—
“ What men seek that they find, and not something else,
| | When they really care for the one thing, they think of that
I | alone and heed it, while other things which they may happen
|| to meet with in their search'they cast aside. If a man digs
I | for gold, he meets also with dirt and stones, but these he
i|; | disregards and rejects. He does not publish to the world
|j| that he found so much dirt and so many stones, but works
}j| faithfully sifting out little particles of gold, and these he
| | collects together, till by-and-by he has a pile of precious
l | metal which rewards his patient toil. So, if a man bores
j | for oil, he thinks and tells of the oil he gets, and if he
i | happens to find water or sand, he throws them away as
| i worthless, and perseveres till he gets the oil, and then he
| | has something worth talking about. There are very few
| j things found pure and unmixed in nature. The best things
ijl are often alloyed and imperfect.
“The metals in the earth are mingled with dross, the fruits
| I upon the trees are often specked and worm-eaten, so that
|j| portions of them have to be rejected. Neither are human
|| beings, nor the powers they possess, perfect, and least of all
I can we look for perfection in mediumship, mediums being
| so constituted as to be subject to all manner of influences.
| Not only are they liable to be influenced unfavourably by
| disembodied spirits, but by the minds of those about them
| here. Oh, friend, you cannot imagine the power that mind
| has, and how it is brought to bear on mediums !
“ When we see the bird charmed by the snake till it is
I drawn into its jaws and devoured, we feel sorry for it, but
j? when mediums are confused and lured to evil, by influences
11 to them as irresistible, all are ready to denounce them as
| | cheats and liars, without any effort to understand the laws
|j| that govern these things, or to discover whether they may
|j| not, after all, be innocent of results which discordant in-
i | fluences and disturbed conditions have, by opening a way for
| | mischievous and beguiling spirits to enter, produced. The
I ! power exerted by those in the circle, and by the spirits
| | they bring, is so great, often so singular in its effects, and
| | always so little understood, that no one should be in haste to
| | denounce a medium, and never should he be condemned and
| | abandoned till, after patient investigation by those who com-
| i prehend these things, he is found to yield to the earnest
| | seeker only dross, or gold so alloyed as to be worthless,
i[| Everything is so badly managed in circles, that it is no
| | wonder there is so much dissatisfaction. If investigators
fi were wise, the results would be very different from what they
j | are. Not only would manifestations be more reliable, but
I | they would be far more various, and of a higher order.
“ If, for instance, persons who have seen certain forms of
|M manifestation under strict test conditions, would be satisfied
j j and leave the spirits to continue their work in their own
I j way, they could do far more than they can while things are
it! conducted in such a stupid and ignorant manner. After
i(| people see a certain manifestation, they tell others of it,
| | and every one wants to see the same. Even after it has
| | been shown hundreds of times, under the most satisfactory
| I conditions, the genuineness of it is still doubted, and it
ijj must be repeated again and again, only again to be dis-
| | puted and denied. Now the spirits, through this and other
ijl mediums, want to go on, step by step, to higher forms of
| | manifestation.
Dec. 1, 1876.
'THE SElElTTTALtST.
213
i( We have shown you an amount of power which few who
visit this medium witness, because you, having once for all
had the reality of these things proved to you, are satisfied
to leave the rest to us, not dictating, but allowing us to do
as we think best. But when the medium is wearied and
discouraged by being required to sit for the same physical
manifestations year after year, to go for ever over the old
ground, every step of which is disputed, just as at first, he
cannot develope as the manifesting spirits would develope
him if the opportunity were given them. No one can have
any idea of the marvellous power which we could exert, or
the precious truths we could communicate, through the
unfolding of such new phases of mediumship under condi¬
tions which would make the way of progress easy and plea¬
sant both to us and to the medium.”
This address was so rational and earnest, and so eloquently
worded, that I can do it only very partial justice, although I
have striven to reproduce it faithfully. Let all who love Spirit¬
ualism, and appreciate its precious revelations, heed the wise
words of this spirit, and aid in dissipating the fogs and
clouds that now hinder the clear shining of that wonderful
light which can reach us only through the full and har¬
monious development of medial power.
Louisa Andrews.
THE SLADE PROSECUTION. |
The historical honour of the English nation is involved in |]
the present prosecution of Dr. Slade by a Fellow of the j
Royal Society. Spain will never be able to remove from i|
its escutcheon the stain of having persecuted and imprisoned j
Galileo, and as the fact of the production of direct writing ||
without contact with human hands is one of the truths of j
science, and is fast becoming a common phenomenon, as j
great a disgrace will rest upon England, should it imprison |)
Dr. Slade on the ground that such a constantly-reproduci ble |j
fact is not real, or has not tajien place in his presence. For jj
this reason Spiritualists can afford to watch the present jj
prosecution and its result with perfect coolness and inde- j !
pendence, knowing that the names of those who have made j j
the attack will be deservedly chained to the deed throughout jj|
all time, and that from that historical position they have no jjj
means of escaping. To this day the heaviest weapon in the jjj
hands of those who oppose the Roman Catholic Church is jjj
the fact that it persecuted Galileo, and was the means of j j
roasting an Italian astronomer for the utterance of scientific j j
truth, and this potent weapon Professor Tyndall did not
forget to use in the course of his Presidential address to
the British Association at Belfast. Any priest of to-day
attempting to reply to that address must have felt his
efforts vain and his tongue paralysed when he reached the
portion just noticed, and have come to the conclusion that
the moral injury done to his cause by people who lived ages
before he was born was irreparable. Posterity, and, indeed,
the multitude of our own generation, will fully recognise
the fact of the production of direct writing without contact
■with human hands, in the presence of physical mediums ;
also, that the said phenomenon was and is common in the
presence of Dr. Slade.
The World of last week contains the following para¬
graph :—
a A correspondent writes : It may amuse you to hear that
i Slade parties ’ are the thing at present. A friend invited
me to meet the Slades at an evening party at her house, but
I declined the honour, on the ground of not being a con¬
genial spirit. To a bond fide seance I would have gone
cheerfully, but I could see that the evening party meant
sympathetic spirits, and a hat going round for the defence.
He, Dr. S., is quite the lion, if not of the day, of the
night, in these higher circles of society. Society, in taking
him to its exclusive bosom, also opens its arms to all the
witnesses for the defence, and they seem to me to go about
in a body. So much for the unity in spirit.”
Nothing has been said about subscriptions in aid of Dr.
Slade at the various receptions he has attended. The posi¬
tion is that a Fellow of the Royal Society has, with or
without the approval of his fellow members, after taking
upon himself the functions of a detective policeman, or
uncommon informer, relegated the decision of scientific ques¬
tions to a Police Court, and at the same time is cheered on
by the ignorant populace, and by some of the penny papers.
This is no reason why better informed people should be
influenced by the example, or show any falling off in
friendship for Dr. Slade.
There are still many who resolve scientific questions by
the old-fashioned method of experiment. These day by
day visit Dr. Slade, who is giving his seances: as usual, and
they see that he does not do the writing; that it is then and
there freshly produced with slate-pencil, and that there is
no other person with a mortal body in the room than Dr.
Slade and the sitters.
As mediums multiply, these facts multiply also ; and in a
few years will have been witnessed by the multitude in their
own homes, instead of by the present pioneering few.
Mr. Thomas Gales Forster writes to the Banner of
Bight from Baltimore, Md., Nov. 1st, and says, concerning
the Slade prosecution :—
g With tears, and a depth of feeling beyond my capacity
of expression, I have just read the telegraphic news from
England. One of our beloved mediums—an American
citizen—has been sentenced by a justice in London to three
months’hard labour; and for what? Simply for the exhi¬
bition by the spirits of the departed, through his sensitive
organism, of certain phenomena, which we believe to be
the result of the harmonious action of natural law, and
which constitute, in part at least, the substratum of a
glorious religion, which at this moment rejoices the hearts
of millions of his fellow-citizens ! As Spiritualists, and as
Americans, can we remain longer inactive? It seems to
me it would be criminal to do so. Let us at once crush
for ever all local differences and personal prejudices that
may exist, and rally to the defence and support of our
media-—the whole body of whom are assailed in the per¬
secution of Dr. Slade. Let us make every effort in our
power to strengthen the hands of the English Spiritualists,
who have, by appeal, carried the case before a jury of their
countrymen.
. “Let Spiritualists in every township, village, and city
throughout the land join without delay and forward what
sums they may be able to spare to the proprietors of the
Banner of Light, who have ever been the true friends of
true media, that they may in turn despatch the same to the
Slade Committee in London.
“ After an enforced absence from the rostrum, through
ill health, for over three years, I expect to resume the
duties of the same next Sunday (5th), in this city. It is
a melancholy gratification that, upon my return to the
public advocacy of the religion we have so much reason to
love and serve, one of my first efforts will be in behalf of a
I j persecuted friend and brother in a foreign land.
“ In the freedom of a living truth, I am fraternally yours,
j j “ Thomas Gales Forster.
jjj “ No. 207, West Lombard-street.”
SPIRITUALISM IN PARIS.
jjj Bl' COUNT DE BULLETs
j ! My friend Mr. O’Sullivan, in his communications published in yotir
j j journal during the past year, has given your readers full and graphic
j j j descriptions of a portion of the seances which we have held here, under
jjj the mediumship of Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Firman,
j) j In the absence of his practised and fertile pen, to keep up the inter-
i {j course with your readers, I will, in my own way, occasionally continue
j) j the narrative. I wish now to allude particularly to the communications
jjj of “ Grlaucus,” a spirit often mentioned in your columns. I have con-
j j tinually investigated Spiritualism for nearly three years past, having
jjj held daily seances, during that time, at a uniform hour, except the
j j period of Firman’s trouble. My experience may, therefore, be said to
j ! be of an exceptional character, and has embraced every phase of
j) j Spiritual manifestations, viz., spirit rapping, writing (both direct and
j j j through mediums), spirit speaking, and materialisations,
j j j Before Firman’s trouble, the materialisations were much more com-
jjj plete than they have been since. Before that, I have had as many as
j j j nine spirits of departed relatives and friends appearing together at one
j \ i time, in loving intercourse.
jjj We have now in our little circle a regular attendance of beautiful
j jj female spirits, and of intelligent male spirits; and our meetings and
jjj greetings each day are as warm and genial as it could possibly be
j j: among earnest and affectionate friends aud kindred in the flesh. After
j)j the attack upon Firman, we groped feebly along, his power being
jji lamentably impaired by his suffering, and we were obtaining very
ill slight manifestations; but one day the spirit of Judge Edmonds com¬
municated with me, through Madame R , and introduced me, as it
214
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 1, 1876.
were, to “ John King,” who, as he said, would assist, as it was his
mission to do in such cases, in our efforts.
At this time our progress in development was so exceedingly slow and
imperfect, that we would have only a hand materialised, and the smallest
attempts at producing the face. But from the time John King took
charge of our affairs our manifestations steadily improved, until we
reached what was a memorable period in the history of our seances—an
attempt by a bad spirit to break them up. Firman had attended seances
at another place, contrary to the advice of John King, where the spirit
of a Greek named Akosus, who had been a pirate, controlled. Here
Firman was lifted up to the ceiling and held there, and various acts of
a similar character were performed. He finally abstained from going to
the place in question, when the Greek, resenting this action as offensive,
came after him, with most hostile intent. He succeeded in interrupting
our seances for nearly a month, but in the end was converted, and is
now, under the direction of John King, one of the most efficient of our
band of spirits. On some future occasion I must give you the details of
our experience with Akosus, as furnishing a curious chapter in the
history of Spiritual development.
Ever since the introduction of John King, as I have stated, with the
exception of eight days of absence devoted to a special mission, he has
daily attended our seances, as the master spirit controlling and directing
the materialisations. He rarely appears now himself, preferring, as he
says, to give other spirits, who are anxious to show themselves, an
opportunity. Formerly he came often, with his light, and has presented
himself to us frequently, thoroughly formed, as much so as any man in
full flesh could be—his compact, robust body being submitted for our
examination, lighted up perfectly by his lamp, so often described. We
have had him stand before us in full light, and shake hands firmly and
strongly with each member of our circle. We have had him speak to
us while thus standing in the light, and advance to the table, take up the
pencil, and write in the same uniform hand with which he writes when
controlling the medium.
John King always talks in the dark seance, in a vigorous voice, and is
ever sympathetic, friendly, and hearty in his greetings and conversation.
It would take a large portion of your space to give you in any detail our
pleasant experiences with him. He is ready at all times to answer
questions on subjects permitted, and enjoys, with zest, whenever the op¬
portunity offers, a decorous joke, responding with ready repartee to all
humorous allusions. At parting, however, he is serious and solemn, and
never fails to invoke the blessing of the Almighty Ruler of the Universe
on us all. We regard him as a dear friend, as we do indeed each of our
spirit band. At the conclusion he writes a friendly message alluding to
the events of the seance, and making suggestions as to the light or other
matters affecting their character for future guidance.
Glaucus came later than John King, sent to me by a very high spirit
to aid in developing me in mesmeric power for a purpose. Mr. O’Sul¬
livan has so fully and so often described our good friend that he must be
a familiar spirit to many of your readers.
He has referred to himself as “ One who looked on him, who preached
to the men of Athens,” in fact a contemporary of St. Paul. The verit¬
able apparition of a spirit 1800 years old, is, as I am aware, a startling
fact to those who have beheld it, and I am also conscious that it is still
more startling as a proposition to be believed by those who have not seen
for themselves. Nevertheless, there has come to us daily, for the better
part of a year, this materialised spirit—as venerable and impressive as an
ancient prophet—with nobility, elevation, and power, stamped on his
presence. He has not yet been able to speak to us at any length, although
on several occasions while standing before us he has uttered a few
words. He has also written directly and palpably before us in his
well-known hand. He communicates with us daily in writing, through
Firman, and answers promptly and fully all questions which we may
put to him bearing on spiritual matters. I should remark that the
female spirits write through Mrs. Firman, and the male spirits through
her husband. Each spirit who thus communicates has a distinct hand¬
writing, and the messages are written by direct control, and therefore,
are really the writing of the spirits themselves. We keep separate books
for the writings of John King, Glaucus, and the female spirits.
John King writes a bold rapid characteristic hand, in the usual form
—while Glaucus writes backwards, from right to left, the last letters of
each word being formed first, and the writing can only be read from the
other side of the sheet held up to the light. The handwritings of these
spirits never vary in their characteristics. Glaucus writes in a graceful
and flowing style, freely and copiously, almost as rapidly as a deliberate
person would speak. I am satisfied that the medium is as unconscious
of what he writes as he could be of concurring or expressing the ideas
conveyed through him.
One of our beautiful female spirits, named Natalia, who, as she
describes herself, was a Russian Princess, of the house of Demidoff,
allied to the Imperial family, has written her life through Mrs. Firman
—an extremely interesting biography, full of dramatic interest, and
terminating with her death, produced by an accidental fall from a
glacier in Switzerland. She is now engaged in writing the history of
her life in the spirit land.
We have also had the life of Akosus, written for us after his conver¬
sion. But my object in this communication was not to give a descrip¬
tion of the incidents of our seances, but to introduce the communication
of the venerable Glaucus on a subject of much concern and discussion,
at least to Spiritualists here, that is, reincarnation. His views appear
to me clear, logical, and conclusive. I should observe that when he
writes he is careful to have what is written read over to him, and to
correct it himself. But he frequently complains that he is hampered
by the necessity of writing through the medium, and being restrained
by his reliance on that source for the words to express his ideas. Of
course, if he wrote in his own language, it would be Latin of the time of
the commencement of the Christian era.
After having said so much in regard to my persistent investigations,
II it may be proper for me to remark that I am not “ given up ” to Spirit-
| ualism. I belong very much to this world, and I may also be allowed to
say that I am no enthusiast. Circumstances brought to my notice the
| phenomena of Spiritualism, and having the leisure and the opportunity
of consulting good and reliable mediums, I have pursued their investiga¬
tion, as I would any new science that interested me. I am accustomed
| to allot a certain portion of the day to this purpose, and it occupies a
place by itself, neither touching on my other duties, nor mingling the
| supernatural with my appreciation and enjoyment of this life.
I should remark that our stances are as essentially private as if con¬
fined to the home circle. This is a necessity here. Spiritualism is not
| popular in France; in fact, it may be said not to be popular anywhere
| just at present. Hence it is that we hear so little in public of the results
i of the private home circles being held in so many households throughout
j the world. I am satisfied from what I learn that more remarkable
manifestations occur in seclusion than in any of the public seances pub¬
lished to the world. It requires no ordinary share of moral courage for
any man to stand up and say, ” I am a Spiritualist.” But soon all this
| will change. As we are constantly assured by our good Spiritual friends,
I the cause will make its own way, and soon be recognised as a truth by
i all men.
\ It may be asked, what have I succeeded in establishing to my satis-
I faction in all my long and continuous experience ? It would occupy
| too much of your space to tell in any detail the results which, to my
I (i mind, are unquestionable. On some future occasion I will endeavour
[i to do so. The one great fact that the spirits of the departed can and
|| do communicate with the living I have established in, I may say, a
u thousand instances, to my complete satisfaction, with all necessary tests,
jj And that spiritual manifestation, which always existed, but at rare
H intervals, has in our day become, as it were, established—furnishing
(j reliable, assuring, and comforting intercourse with the other world.
| i This has been permitted by the Divine Ruler for great and holy
purposes, which are gradually unfolding themselves. The immortality
(i of the soul, or spirit, is thus to be brought home to all, and a new
>| religion is following the van of this divine development, which teaches
(I us that God is not only a God of justice, but a Father of infinite good-
j| ness and mercy to all His children. Spiritualism teaches the golden
rule of righteousness, and its certain reward in eternal happiness; it
)\ tells us that evil deeds are sure of their punishment; and it at the same
(I time brings the great revelation to man that all will be ultimately saved
to enduring happiness, through expiation, suffering, and purification of
n the spirit. This doctrine will supplant the barbarous, despairing, and
J] soul-debasing dogma of hell-fire and eternal perdition. The ultimate
Jl mission of this revelation is to accomplish the elevation of the race of
(j man, and to unite all the nations in peace, goodwill, and universal
j | brotherhood.
?! Hotel do I’Athenfje, Rue Scribe, Paris.
! NATIONAL ORGANISATION OF AMERICAN SPIRIT-
|| UALISTS.
in A meeting was held at Memphis, Tennessee, on the 27th October, in
j(j the Assembly Hall, at half-past ten in the morning. At that hour a
j>j goodly number of intelligent spectators were present. The Hon. J. M.
j?| Peebles was voted into the chair, and he delivered the following
|< address:—
I > j If I understand the purpose of this meeting, it is to perfect one of the
ji State organisations of Spiritualists. While Spiritualism, under the
I (I aspects of apparitions, visions, trances, dreams, premonitions, prophecies
i | i and spiritual gifts runs like a golden thread through all history, the
I modern movement, rising like a tidal wave, commenced, only twenty-
| eight years since, in a little village near Rochester, N.Y., a place of far
| more note than Nazareth in the palmy days of the Roman empire.
From vibratory sounds, comparable to telegraphic ticking, the phe¬
nomena rapidly developed into writing, personation, trance, vision,
| healing, gift of tongues, improvisation, inspirational speaking, and,
more recently, materialisations, whereby the so-called dead spiritually
! re-clothe themselves, as in prophetic and apostolic times, walking in our
| midst. At the least calculation there are millions of Spiritualists in
America, with their weekly journals, their monthlies, their lyceums,
with public speakers, media, and startling phenomena in demonstration
of a future existence; and, while these results have been accomplished,
i there has been only a very lax, and in very large territories of country,
I not even the semblance of organisation. But now there is a common
feeling springing up among Spiritualists and liberalists that the time
j has come to perfect organisations for effective work. The times demand
it. The evangelical denominations are organised to propagate ecclesias¬
tical dogmas; to carry forward missionary work; to hold in check the
II demonstrations of science; to continue the non-taxation of church
property; to put their chaplains into Congress and legislatures; their
| Bibles into schools, and their Unitarian God into the constitution : all
| of which tend to proscription, and, in the end, persecution, even unto
death. Must not organisations, then, meet organisations ? Must not
I living truths meet old grayed errors ? Must not right meet and put
down the wrong ? Must not liberality and toleration take the place of
the dried husks of sect and creed, to the end that freedom of opinion
may be enjoyed without social proscription? Organisation is an
essential law of nature, operating wherever forms of life exist. A sound,
healthy human body is a fine sample of organisation; and a corpse is
an equally apt symbol of disorganisation, disintegration, death. The
initiatory steps were taken the fifth of July, in Philadelphia, for organ¬
ising a ” National Conference of Spiritualists,” and now, the inspira¬
tional work of the day—the hour—is to perfect State and local organi¬
sations for associated work and action. While we repudiate all creeds
that can possibly cramp or trammel the human soul, we desire to unite
our scattered forces, and mass them for the coming conflict—desire to
encourage investigation, science, morality, the ministry of spirits, and
Deo. 1, 1876.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
215
purity of life: thus setting examples before the world worthy of their
following.
Since so many impostors have been exposed, since so many clinging
excrescences have been lopped away, and Spiritualists have waked up
to the realisation of Spiritualism as a science, a phenomenon, and a
religion, its principles were never making such rapid progress as at
present. It has just been brought before and discussed in the Anthro¬
pological Section of the British Association of Scientists. It was
brought before this learned body by Prof. W. F. Barrett, a distinguished
physicist and pupil of Prof. Tyndall. Among those who took the side
of Spiritualism in the discussion were Mr. A. It. Wallace, the naturalist;
Mr. William Crookes, who made those recent discoveries in regard to
the physical energy of light; Colonel Lane Fox, Lord Rayleigh, and
others equally distinguished. That eminent English clergyman, Rev.
Maurice Davies, D.D., writing upon the late action of the British
Association, says: “ Spiritualism is advanced to the dignity of a science;
there can be no doubt about that. The British Association met at
Glasgow definitely for the advancement of science. Spiritualism has
been advanced at Glasgow ; ergo, Spiritualism is a science. True, the
section was not termed spiritualistic, but anthropological—science is
nowhere without a long name, and the paper was about abnormal states
of mind—but this was only a fluke. The subject was Spiritualism pure
and simple, and it was advanced by the British Association. Like or
dislike, that is a fact.” Am I reminded that Dr. Slade has been
arrested in London ? So Herod apprehended Peter, and the apostle,
not getting bail, as did Slade, was put in prison and bound, and in the
darkness of a midnight hour, through a spiritual manifestation, he was
released. All of the apostles were mediums. “ The old is new*” says
the poet.
Many of the most distinguished men living are Spiritualists. Our
poet Longfellow is a firm believer in spirit communion. When last in
Europe, he attended spiritual seances in Naples and Florence. The last
time that I met Victor Hugo was in a spiritual circle in Paris, and a re¬
sident of this city, Mrs. Holmes, was present. The seers, sages, and
most of the great souls in past ages, had to do with the phenomena, or
were avowed Spiritualists. Such were Socrates, Plato, Cicero, Plutarch,
Tertullian, Bacon, Baxter, Cowper, Glanville, Swedenborg, Johnson,
Lessing, Goethe, Kerner, Wesley, and a multitude of others. The
greatest of living German philosophers, I. H. Fichte, fully accepts the
phenomena of Modern Spiritualism. The enlightened and educated of
all lands are becoming more and more interested on the subject. Re¬
lating to science, the soul’s affections, and immortality, it is destined
to have a hearing in hamlet and city, in every schoolhouse and collegiate
institution in the country. Spiritualism, as interpreted by its best
exponents, has given free thought a new impetus. It has severed the
bonds of fear and superstition, revealed in a truer light the law of
compensation, and opened to anxious eyes a revised geography of the
heavens. It has encouraged the desponding, comforted the sick, and
with the tender hand of sympathy brushed away the mourner’s tears,
kindling in believing souls the loftiest endeavour, the broadest tolerance,
the noblest charity, and the warmest heart fellowship; its prayers are
good deeds : its music, the sweet breathings of guardian angels; its
ideal, the Christ-life of perfection; and its temple, the measureless
universe of God. To further advance these broad, tolerant principles,
organisation, system, enthusiasm, music, regular meetings, and appro¬
priate edifices seem to be necessities. I await the further pleasure of
the meeting.
Rev. Samuel Watson animadverted upon the tendency of creeds
to abridge the rights of individual freedom, by forcing, or trying to
force, mankind to accept peculiar creeds and doctrines. Spiritualism
taught the very opposite. It enlarged the mercies of God, and invited
all men to enter and investigate its spiritual revelations.
Mr. Minor Meriwether expressed his sincere gratification at the liberal
views expressed by Dr. Watson. Though he was not a Spiritualist, and
perhaps never might be, he was willing to co-operate with any set of
men who were liberal and enlarged in their views, and did not condemn
and ostracise a man for his own opinions.
Dr. Doty, in a few cogent remarks, dwelt upon the necessity for
organisation, after which a resolution was offered by Dr. Watson, that
a committee of seven be selected for the purpose of drawing up a con¬
stitution and bye-laws for the society, to be submitted to the convention
for their approval at the next meeting.
Whereupon Dr. Samuel Watson, Minor Meriwether, J. B. Robertson,
Mr. Hawks, Mrs. Annie T. C. Hawks, Mr. Glenn, Dr. Doty, and Dr.
Peebles were selected.
SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA.
Colonel John McRae, of Wilmington, U.S., writes as follows to the
Banner of Light;—
“ At this time, when the genuineness of the phenomena occurring in
the presence of Dr. Slade is being called in question, it may be in order
for me to relate an incident which occurred during my seance with him.
After the usual phenomena of a heavy chair moving several feet without
any visible contact, the writing on a slate held under the table, and on
the under side of the slate while lying on the table, and so on, the
doctor placed a small bit of pencil, not larger than a grain of wheat, on
the slate; he held one end of the slate under the corner of the table, I
holding the other end, and while there was a sound of scratching on
the slate; I gently drew the end I held from under the table and saw a
sentence partly written, and the bit of pencil moving on the slate
forming a letter; and from the bottom of the letter formed the bit of
pencil continued to move in a straight line at an angle of about forty-
five degrees from the last letter formed for the distance of about an
inch; toward the latter part of that distance the bit of pencil began to
tremble and move slower, and finally stopped. So I saw the bit of
pencil writing part of an intelligent sentence without any visible pro¬
pelling cause, and I know I was in the full possession of my mental
faculties.”
©ortesponxience.
[Gnat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposite
to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE USE OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.
Sir,—On reading Mr. W. H. Harrison’s paper, on the work of the
Scientific Research Committee of the National Association, and the
remarks which he made at the close of the discussion meeting, held at
the Association Rooms last Monday, it occurs to me to ask some
questions.
Unless the ultimate object of research in the direction indicated by
him be “ to convert disbelievers,” of what real use is it ? Who is to be
benefited, and how, by our “ pushing on Spiritualism as a science,” or
by our making “headway in the investigation of the subject? ” What
can it matter to you or me, sir, individually, who have already got the
kernel of Spiritualism, what the shell is made of, and whether “ the
phantasmagoria of organic life,” or “ the simpler phenomena of pure
physics,” enter most largely into the composition of the said shell—
commonly called manifestations ’’
And, what is “the philosophy at the root of the phenomena?”
Surely not, as he seems to think, the modus operandi t Is it not, rather,
future life, and the nature and conditions of that life ? How can he
expect scientific research “ to tend to evolve even a fragment of (such)
philosophy,” except indirectly and remotely?
Is not the legitimate use of scientific research to lay a solid foundation
for the conversion of disbelievers ? A, Joy.
69, Great Russell-street, 26th November, 1876.
[The Royal Society—■which, above all others, is noted for carrying out the
true principles of research, except in relation to psychology—does not care
whether the public believe or disbelieve its discoveries. It does not appeal to
incompetent outsiders as judges, and even those who apply for printed copies
of the papers read at its meetings, have some difficulty in getting them. It
would not institute any experiments for the sake of converting outsiders to
a belief in what its own members have proved to be true ; anybody who pro¬
posed such a plan would be considered weak. Missionary work and scientific
research should be carried on separately, and not allowed to hamper each
other.—Ed.]
A SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
Sir,—On Saturday evening, the 25th November, at a seance held at
61, Lambs’ Conduit-street, with Mr. C. E. Williams as our medium, our
manifestations were so rapidly given, and the materialisations so won¬
derful, that I thought you would feel interested in knowing the facts and
using them if you felt they would, through the medium of The Spirit-
ualist, interest the public.
Our circle was formed by the following friends, nearly all strangers to
myself, viz.:—Mr. Wootton, Mr. Hannah, Mr. Colman, Mr. Burke, Mr.
Hudson, Mr. Husk, Mr. Heep, and Mrs. Garter Blake. We had scarcely
seated ourselves, and, as the light was being extinguished, my beard was
pulled. Mr. Williams thought it was my imagination, but Peter laugh¬
ingly said, “No; he had done it.” He kept up a conversation with all
of us, and each member of the circle was touched and felt by various
kinds of hands; one hand especially I desired should let me feel its
beautifully-formed nails; it was a woman’s hand, delicately tapering,
and the touch soft; I held it some time, talking to it, and feeling its
shape. We had three distinct voices at the same time, viz., John King’s,
Peter’s, Lightfoot the Indian’s, while the guide of Mr. Heep, known as
the Drummer, beat loudly and in excellent time to the music played by
the musical box. Lights were moving about rapidly, and, after the
merriest commotion for a quarter of an hour, John King said, “ Don’t
waste any more power here, but go to the cabinet,” At his wish we moved
into the inner room, our party round the table filling it so closely that
no one could move between our circle and the wall. I sat next the
cabinet. John King very speedily materialised, and with his lamp
lighted up my face for all to see me. He then went round to each, all
seeing him putting his face near theirs, and on reaching Mr. Colman he
illuminated the top of his head, and then, in the most distant corner of
the room from the cabinet, he ascended to the ceiling and then over the
table, passing over its very centre. Lightfoot afterwards materialised
and showed his face, his hairy garments passing near my face and hands.
I mistook his head ornaments for horns, which caused him to be rather
irritable until I admitted my error. All this time Peter was most busy
talking and joking in the inner room, taking Mrs. Blake’s hat off and
putting it on the heads of the other sitters. These marvels continued
for fully an hour, when John King bade us his usual “ Good night.”
I should add that while John King was in the most distant part of the
room from the cabinet, visible to all, our medium was breathing hard
and occasionally talking to us. B. W, Pycqck.
21, Little Trinity-lane, Cannon-street, E.C., Nov. 27, 1876;
Mrs. Weldon’s sociable evenings continue on Monday evenings at
the Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, Regent-street, to the great
delight of appreciative audiences, and the tiny performers principally
interest the public. Mrs. Weldon, Mr. Walter Pettit, Mr. Bernard
Lane, Miss Nancy Evans, and many others, especially Mr. Melville
Bonham, have taken part in the performances. Next Monday Mr. and
Mrs. Richard Blagrove, with their orchestra of concertinas, will again
perform ; Mrs. Juliet Anderson will read the “ Caudle Lectures and
the little orphans will again join their “ Grannie ” in Nursery Rhyme
Songs. Those who desire to be present should apply to Mrs. Weldon,
who is in attendance daily at 39, Great Marlborough Street, Regent
Street.
i
216
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Dec. 1, 1876.
DR. MONCK.
We have received the following letter:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Several articles and paragraphs have appealed in successive
numbers of The Spiritualist, containing statements in reference to Dr.
Monck’s case at Huddersfield, which, if not corrected, are calculated to
damage his reputation as a medium, not only among outsiders, but also
in the estimation of some who call themselves Spiritualists. You
have, doubtless, been misinformed on these points, and I therefore ask
you, as a matter of justice and common fairness, to insert a few remarks
calculated to remove, as far as possible, any erroneous impressions
which may have resulted therefrom.
In The Spiritualist of the 3rd instant a paragraph appears, in which
the writer, notwithstanding the confession that u at present we have
no information upon the subject, except from newspaper reports,” in¬
stead of waiting for a reliable account, parades the information that
Dr. Monck “has been charged at Huddersfield with imposture,” and
that conjuring apparatus has been found in his room,” and further
adds, “he is very little known to London Spiritualists ! ” This la,st
touch of “information” must surely have been the result of “uncon¬
scious cerebration,” or some “ comatose ’’ condition, and is quite new to
those who have been accustomed to read of Dr. Monck’s seances at
the residences of some of the most prominent of the “ London Spirit¬
ualists.” The names of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Enmore
Jones, and numerous others, will readily occur to the reader ; in addi¬
tion to which, the following names of friends, who supplied him with
articles for his “ Spiritualists’ Calendar for 1876,” the titles of which
are subjoined, will show that he is not altogether unknown to “ London
Spiritualists : ”—
Mr. Thomas Shorter,-on “What it is to be a Spiritualist ” ; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A-., “ Why.not? Mr. A. Calder, “The beneficent aspect of
Spiritualism” ; Mr. T. Everitt, “Rapid direct writing” ; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze, “Spiritualism and Mediums”; Mrs. Lisette Makdougall
Gregory, “ Observations on Mediums.”
In the same number it is stated that Mr. William Oxley was at
Huddersfield making inquiries into the charges against Dr. Monck,
“and the antecedents of that medium.” It appears, to say the least,
to be a very ungracious way of putting it, especially as Mr. Oxley was
well acquainted with “the antecedents” of “that medium,” and if he
had even wanted further information on that head, he would have
gone to Bristol for it, and not to Huddersfield.
In an editorial article in The Spiritualist of the 17th instant, it is i j
stated that Dr. Monck, a medium who obtains strong manifestations, i(j
which have been observed “chiefly by Spiritualists and by disbelievers i/j
in the provinces,” was convicted at Huddersfield, and that those who Iji
gave evidence against him were “ Spiritualists and mesmerists—conse- m
quently (!) they must have had what they believed to be good evidence ||i
for the step which they took.”
The Editor omits to state that one of the prosecutors, on whose jjj
statements Dr. Monck was convicted, besides being “a mesmerist,” . j/i
Was also a conjurer, and an intimate friend of Mr. Buck, whose jjj
juggling proclivities were first developed in Bristol, while employed as j j
a tailor by Mr. Young, of St. Augustine’s, and who subsequently i|i
assumed the more imposing name of Herr Dobler. This man owed y]
Dr. Monck a grudge for giving lectures to expose said juggler’s jjj
“exposition,” or, rather, burlesque of Spiritualism, and this will j(j
account for the bitter feeling displayed throughout the proceedings.
At page 167 Mr. W. H. Harrison, at a meeting of the National Asso- jji
ciation of Spiritualists, referring to the assertions of Professors Lan- j j
kester and Donkin in the Slade case, is reported to have said that “ what i j I
they swore and wrote about that table ought to be subjected to the iji
severest criticism,” as “ there was nobody present to check their state- i i
ments except the table.” But in the other case those assertions of iji
Lodge’s, which were the most damaging, if true, and most calculated to iji
create a suspicion of guilt in the accused, relate to an asserted interview jjj
when only he and Dr. Monck were present, and yet his word is to be jjj
taken because he is a “ mesmerist” forsooth ! I wonder another reason jjj
was not adduced, viz., that he was a friend of Herr Dbbler. jjj
In the same article, prefaced by a repetition of the confession, “we j j
know nothing of the case beyond that which has been printed in the j !
newspapers,” it is stated that we “are not aware that Dr. Monck has jj!
given a stance in London for nearly two years.”
In the Medium of September 1st, 1876, at page 546, an account of a iji
stance given by Dr. Monck in the previous month, at the Progressive j j I
Institution, is recorded. (i
The article proceeds thus—‘ ‘ Now comes the worst part of the evidence j j
against Dr. Monck,” and then gives in detail the conversation which is jjj
alleged by the “mesmerist and conjurer” to have taken place, a few jjj
days after the seance, between Dr. Monck and himself, when no one else j :
was present. Full credence appears to be given to these assertions.
In the report of a meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists, j j
November 14th, it is stated that, in reply to questions addressed by Mr. jjj
Morse, in order to ascertain whether any steps had been taken by the j j
Association in relation to the Huddersfield prosecution, Mr. Desmond j j
Fitz-Gerald, the chairman, said that “Dr. Monck had been invited jjj
several times, by the Seance and Research Committees, to give seances, j j
but he had made no answers to the letters, except that on one occasion jjj
he that he sent a curt refusal.” ijl
The secretary also reported that “Dr. Monck had sent no answers to jjj
two letters forwarded to him on the subject of seances. No communica- jjj
tion had been sent by him or his friends to the Association on the sub- jjj
ject of his prosecution at Huddersfield.” m
Mr. Morse remarked that “ from what had been said, it would be seen jjj
that the National Association had nothing to do with Dr. Monck, either jjj
in the one way or the other.” ;j(j.
I A condensed statement of these proceedings at the meeting on Tuesday
night appeared in a damaging paragraph in the public newspapers on
Thursday morning. Is it usual to have reporters at the meetings of
the Association ? or was the information supplied to the public by some
friend of Dr. Monck’s who happened to be present ?
The real facts, as distinguished from the statements made at the
meeting, are these:—At the time referred to, many letters addressed to
Dr. Monck were unavoidably delayed, in consequence of his frequent
j; movements, not having been home since February last. He advertised
in The Medium, apologising for this, and showing the vast amount of
ji work he had to attend to, in the form of seances, healing, and cor-
jj: respondence, much* of which he had to postpone for a considerable
|j period.
As soon as he was able he wrote to the secretary of the Association,
Jj- enclosing his subscription, and stating that his numerous engagements
ji would prevent his compliance with the committee’s request at present.
jj As to the assertion that “ no communication had been sent by him or
Ij his friends,” one of the first letters he wrote after he had been
j “trapped,” as the Huddersfield Examiner elegantly, but suggestively,
j j phrases it, was a very long one addressed to the Association, asking for
advice and help, and for funds from the “ Spiritualists’ Defence Fund;”
his appeal ended with these words—<< I ask you to treat me at least as
generously as the American medium, Dr. Slade.” The chief constable
read the letter—as he does all correspondence—and took it to be
posted, and afterwards stated that it had been posted. The doctor also
j wrote to Mr. Enmore Jones; who replied, advising him to write to Mr.
Calder, the chairman of the Association ; which he did. He also
instructed his solicitor to write, as, personally, he was much hampered
by the prison regulations, which only allow one letter to be written in a
week.
When the doctor was persecuted at Ryde he made an appeal to the.
Association, and got snubbed. It was reported in The Spiritualist that
they declined to help him, on the ground that he had never written to
them till he got into trouble; that he had not attended any of their
meetings, and had not paid his subscription.
After much correspondence, the secretary, Miss Kislingbury, who
then, as in the present instance, had confirmed all that was stated,
wrote an apology, stating that all the above was incorrect; she had
looked over the letters, and found two from the doctor, one sent with
his subscription, and one in reply to an invitation, agreeing to speak at
their annual soiree in London, which he attended, but was ignored, and
not asked to speak. It is possible that the present charges may partake
of the same character.
Altogether, this treatment of the doctor requires some explanation.
He is prepared to justify himself before his accusers, both with regard
to these assertions, and also in the matter of the atrocious Huddersfield
charges, and for this purpose he will ask for a special meeting, to allow
him, an opportunity of stating his case in person, and asking for an
equitable verdict at their hands.—I am, Sir, yours respectfully,
George Tommy.
7, Unity-stroet, College Green, Bristol,
November 22nd, 1876.
We publish the foregoing letter because it comes from one of Dr.
Mouck’s chief friends, and do not reply to the large amount of easily-
answered special pleading in it about small things, in order not to
lead the way to a discussion of the merits of the case in these pages,
instead of in the proper place—a court of law. The vital point of the
whole matter is the confession of Dr. Monck to Mr. Lodge. The latter
is said to be well known in Huddersfield, and if there is anything
connected with him tending to show that his evidence should be dis¬
credited, it should have been brought before the magistrates ; but no
such depositions were forthcoming. Nothing has been done by the
defenders of Dr. Slade in the way of intimating that Messrs. Lankester
and Donkin are not acting conscientiously, so the cases as put by our
com spondent are not parallel; the prosecutors in the Slade case may
be just as conscientious in assuming that the slate-writing was not
genuine, as some men are who violently assert the earth to be flat;
the question is not one of their bad faith, but of their scientific and
intellectual competency. We by no means assert that those who per¬
secuted Galileo acted in bad faith; indeed, this Slade case should make
one feel more charitable towards those victims of foregone conclusions.
No letter for aid from Dr. Monck or any of his friends had, up to a
day or two ago, nor, we believe, up to the present time, been received
by the National Association of Spiritualists, by the Spiritualists’
Defence Committee, by either of the secretaries to those bodies, or by
Mr. Calder, the President of the National Association. Perhaps the
Superintendent of Police at Huddersfield will give information whether
the alleged letters were written ?
No Spiritualist questions the powerful mediumship of Dr. Monck,
but the point now raised is whether he has added to it by artificial
means, and that is a subject for investigation elsewhere.
There have not been “several articles” in this journal about the
Huddersfield case—only one, and that most lenient.
National Association Winter Meetings.—On Monday evening next
the usual fortnightly meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists
will be held at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London. Mr. J.
W. Gray, member of the Experimental Research Committee of the
Association, will read a paper on “ Tests, with Illustrations.” The paper
will be followed by a discussion. Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, M.S.Tel.E ,
in the chair.
Dec. 1* 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Bepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proring the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation,
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Vs. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORl.D, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete With well-authenticated narratives, describ-
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a largo number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
ItlCG 59
PLANOHETTE; OR, THEDESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epos Sargent. A book rich irt descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERfcl ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
tor inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol, II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man hi the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuraiism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature: Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. od.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of. different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vois. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a’trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala," published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, XOs, Cd.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of. high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and pther witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. I2s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.’
By Allan Putnam, fis
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. '7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten, 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Cd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Tjvo Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Cd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. 0. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
the Pc'
op:e
The “ Poughkeepsie Seei\"
Nature’s Divine Revelations
'he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
11 ' II.
HL
IV. „ .
I V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-reeurring Questions from
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ,
Harmohial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answe
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
Tbe Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . •
s. d.
15 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 a
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By O. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . , . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritcalist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . ,60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . , .. . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.V. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. .... . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life; Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M,D.  ; r‘ 2 0
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the. United. States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ' 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul; B. A. . . ,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . .       . L , 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 16 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools , . 1 o
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is. •
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAY’S AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman ot Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is. ’
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet; “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
bv Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALT, ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D. Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr E. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 1, 1876.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.,
SPECIAL APPEAL
Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment, appropriate to a.criminal, is meted out to him. This
highly gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “hard labour,” and will, is January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity!]
The affair is not individual, but relates to all.- The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, thrfiugh facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept.'the verdict without remonstrance? 'Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle ?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support so [will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers.
The Executive Committee.
Alexander Oalder, 1, Hereford-
square.
rJ. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Honorary Treasurers. |G^aWYLI)) ^j,.; 12| GreatCum.
V. berland-place, W,
SUBSCRIPTIONS.
£ s. d.
Miss Douglas    25 0 0
Mr. Q-. C. Joad   25 0 0
“Nicodemus’’     25 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn : ; ;  10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon  i      10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith      10 10 0
., Thomas Grant  10 10 0
Miss H   10 0 0
Sir O. Isham, Bart      10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod     10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel   !.'.  10 0 0
“ Lady Jane Grey ”        10 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder   l..i 10 10 0
P. B. J.      10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood      10 0 0
„ I J. N. T. Martheze      7 0 0
Prince Emile von Wittgenstein     6 0 0
Mri W. Tebb      5 5 0
„ J. Enmore Jones    5 0 0
C. C.'Massey .......’.i.....'.....v....5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  .’.   5 0 0
0 Douglas Bayley. J     6 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman  ..;   5 0 0
Dr. George Wyld  '.   .'..... 5 0 0
„ T. E. Partridge        5 0 0
Mrs Hennings    5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun 3    5 0 0
„ ' A. Joy      5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer '.       5 0 0
Mr. A. T.T. Peterson ......'   .'.  ' 5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3 10 0
Mr. J. B.-Stones   V   2 12 6
„ H. withaii     220
Captain James     2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)....      2 2 0
Mr. C. Pearson  'miaiB  2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead      '220
Mr. F. W. Percival  2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon..    2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe  .'       2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun    2 0 0
Mr. A. R. Wallace       .20 0
„ J. C. Ferguson 1 2 0 0
Collected by J. Bums 12 0
Mr. .Geo. Stones It   11 0
„ J. Mould      110
Dr. K. Cook   ;.....   110
k. g.   110
J.R.W...       .1 1 0
Mrs. Maltby  ;  110
Major Menars ..'....i. 110
Mr. J. O. Ward    .110
E D. Rogers        110
„ Morell Theobald...   }  110
„ William Theobald....     - 1 1 0
R. M. Theobald, M.A    1 1 0
„ h.n..     i i o
„ J. Andre     110
James Brown.I    11 0
The Misses Withall      '110
Dr. Baikie     110
Anon, per O. C. Massey   110
Mrs. J. Y. Vernon      110
Mr. T. P. Barkas   110
„ Tucker....        10 0
Mrs. S. Parker.,..  10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley   1 0 0
Mr. A. Smedley       10 0
„ F. Smedley ;  10 0
F. J. T. (collected)  10 0
Mr. Buchanan     10 0
Smaller sums      3 0 6
From America.
Messrs. Colby and Rich     37 0 0
Other Contributions (about)    - 25 0 0
Just published, a New Song. ■
T3EMEMBRANCE (embossed title), 4s. in A
XV flat for contralto or baritone, and inC for soprano or
tenor. Woi ds by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redo was (second
edition), each 3s., by the fame composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from. £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music, 9, Cambridge-ten ace, Railton-road, Heme-hill, S.E;
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART’ ASSOCIATION,
89, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tin EL as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s. ■
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s. :
JOAN OF ARC. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A. SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing‘the Prin-
" cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s)
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.‘,
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s,
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. , Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. • Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee. 4s.
HAMIT,TON CLARKE.-rSerenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.'
Grannie’s Nursery Rhjme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s. :
Subscribers’Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6<L
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. ‘ Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Brancu Office.
Price 7 s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trar-ce medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses tave ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains ihe
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of bis produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its eniiobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY and Rich, London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
By Royal Letters Patent.
KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HATE ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE OOSMETIO" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross.
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Bouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIEITUALIST”-OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the 7Vme» from Professor Lankester, F.R.^.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin i Colonel Lane Fox, president of ihe Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. O. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. O. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2Jd., post free.
W, H. Harrison, 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.O. ,
" ' , '' y Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
MESMRr'ISM, ‘ ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations,' also Illustrative'instances’ of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by : . « <-
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal''Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paiis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for.the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, .awarded the prize offered-for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism anc| clairvoyance.
- It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about anhnal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory, of life itself probably lies .within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Another Work on Occult Spiritism,
By the Author of
“ART MAGI O'.’'
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten begs to announce that she has
been privileged to prepare for the Press another work by the
Author of Art Magic, entitled
GHOST-LAND;
Or,
Reielkches into the Mysteries of Occult Spiritism.
. Illustrated in a s'er/fes of autobiographical papers, with'
extracts from the records of
MAGICAL SEANCES, &C., &0.
Translated and' edited by Emma Hardinge Britten.
This magnificent and thrilling record of spiritual experiences
was prepared for and.commenced in the Western Star some
four years ago. Since .the suspension of that periodical-
necessitated by the Boston fires—Mrs. Hardinge Britten has
been repeatedly solicite'9 to publish the admired and fasci¬
nating “ Ghost Land ” papers in a connected series. The great
demand for another hook from the author of Art Magic, the
earnest desire of the subscribers to that ,cejebrated wprk to,
know more about its author, and the interest which' exists at
the present hour in philosophical and progressive views -of
Spiritualism, combine to induce the Editor to put forth the
present highly instructive and wonderful volume, with the
special view of meeting the above requirements.
Price 12s.' Orders may he sent to W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
j Russell-street, London, W.O.' 1
•Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year.
'13 APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
Xv MESSENGER for 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Efhermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Catty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.C.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by U. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank fi lends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu'ation is nearly 80,00u, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism) Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRI I’UALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of tbe Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is. IJd.
Established in 1869.
pHAEGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
ciown for tbs first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words, in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications lor the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London ; and orders intended for the Friday's issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Weduaday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist" will be posted for one year, pos t
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E W. Allen’s, 11, Are Maria-lane, London,
E.C. '
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by.E. W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E)C, «
