REGISTERED AS A NEWSPAPER.]
atf f’^YdSo^o^iCSi<
Wfyi fllcixrspjpr ixiillj Spirxfnulbm m (&xmt §nfaht.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIES: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI : Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. ' BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS. U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, SevebthrStreet.
No. 252. (VOL. X.—No. 25.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JUNE 22, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
The Relationship between Mesmerism and Spiritualism... 289
The National Association of Spiritualists :—The Treat¬
ment of Mediums ... ...   ...290
New Mediums and Spirit Circles  291
The Divining Rod. By S. E. De Morgan    292
Experimental Results relating to Spirit Individuality. By
Christian Reimers... ... ...  294
Correspondence:—The Liverpool Psychological Society-
Speculations—The Last! Debate at the Psychological
Society—The Expense of Spiritual Literature—Russia
Turkey—Infallible Books and Individuals—Mr. Col¬
ville’s Mediumship—Remarkable Spiritual Manifesta¬
tions at Home—Paraffin Moulds of Spirit Faces—Dr.
Slade’s Offer—Physics aqd Metaphysics—“ Life Be¬
yond the Grave ”—Dr. Carpenter Summed Up—The
Witches of Renfrew—Swedenborgianism v. Spirit¬
ualism—Vegetarianism   295
A Prediction concerning “ The Reign of Terror ’’ 299
Paragraphs:—Religious Mania, 291; Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 291; Spiritualistic
« THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
mHE SPIRITUA.LIST, published weekly, is the
A. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the (flobe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names.in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F- Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as. to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness :> His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeid (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (authpr ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. .
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. x.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson. M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ohurcbyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capuciues, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: Bri'ish Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-plaee, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Of&ee.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street,
Washington: No 1Q10 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
April, 1877.
CA.RDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
'OEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Jl-F Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
respectfully announce that they execute AiL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for June, 1877.
Friday, 8th.—Seance for Members and Inquirers, at 8 p.m.
Mr. C. E. Williams, medium.
Saturday, 9f7i.—Trance seance, at 3 p.m. Mr. E. W. Wallis,
medium. Subject to be chosen by the
audience.
Monday, llf/j.—Fortnightly Meeting, at 7.30 p.m. Paper
by Signor Rondi, on “The Training and
Treatment of Mediums.” Free to members
and their friends.
Tuesday, 12f/i.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Business:
Ejection of President, Vice-Presidents, and
other officers.
Friday, 15th.—Seance for Members and Inquirers, at 8
p.m. Mr. C. E. Williams, medium,
N.B.—All applications for admission to seances should be
made to the secretary some time in advance. Inquirers are
admitted free by a written recommendation from a member.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughbobough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SeO.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EYENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Langham Hall, Great Portlaud-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission. Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; ceqtre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old cldthes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may be obtained, and subscriptions,
donations. &c., received by Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistoek-square, London, W.C.   
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA.
The new and slightly abridged edition of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, -
By the late Wm. Gregory, F.RlS.E.;^fVe^0?' °f Chemistry
at Edinburgh .University, _ , *
Will be out in a few days, price 5s, or 5s. 6d. post free; or
five copies post free for 21s. Subscribers will be supplied with
early copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remit¬
tances are sent. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales'of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiapbas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-eourt, Fleet-street,
London, E.O.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Oastledine-road, Anerley, S.E.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEAR’S TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear’s, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
HENRY D. raNOKKNi ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road. Dalston, London, E.
The objeets of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The tef Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the vublic seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seawiices,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Oi'dinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.: quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circled
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
 E, W. WALLIS, Manager.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
oh the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange," Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares "purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office^Hqurs .from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays tlie Bank’ is open until 9 in the Evening.
* A’ Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order'essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables; every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke's Salon.
From 6 to S.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
HATCHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
. S. HAT0HARD & 00.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &C.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
Address on receipt of letter or telegram.
11
THE SPIBITUALIST.
June 22, 1877.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President. '
Alexander Calder,Esq., l, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Airs.Makdougall,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hi my wood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W. •
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrlster-at-law, 98, PorUand-place. W.
Itogers, E. D , Kose-vllla, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Alartin it., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Bpeer, Stanhope Templeman, At.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., Al.D., 12, Groat Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper. ■ M ,
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-viUa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F A.,24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Egiinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam'-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Airs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd,"J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Alanchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., AI.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Aliss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E,
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley ATansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, AI.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Airs., 64, Berners-street, AY.
Alaltby, Airs., 41, Marylebone-road, W. ■
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, ICing-smiarc, GosweU-road, E.C.
Afeers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-rroad. Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J.Warwick-cottage. Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Aloses, Rev vv. Stainton, Al.A., University Col'ege, N.W.
Nosworthy, Airs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson,. C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reiirers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Alanchester.
Rogers, V rs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.,
Stra v n-dge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S:W. I
Strawbridpe, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, AVest Brompton.
Stock, St George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.!
Theobald. Morell, 80, Alark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Alaida-vale, W
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AY.
AA hite, J., Hemlock-house .Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., Al.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, AVest Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman. Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
AAMthall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors,
Air. J. K. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C. . ,
AI. de Bassompierre, 285,: Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz,: President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels. •
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Atheriee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A.R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. AY. Day, Esq., 9, Alontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.AV.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigravc-road, S.AV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.AV.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espirjitista Espanola,_ ‘‘Jervantes 34, 2°, Aladrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconc.e de Torr««~Solanot.
Socledad’Espirita Central de la Republica Alexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
33, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea'per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President,—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—■'Hi, Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nook.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
. , James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Air. ’ Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
Of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intereourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
Honorary or Corretp mding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie,. Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha a Bahdjg Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Aladrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dlrcklnck-Holmield. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veb, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veb, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J.M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Airs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Alolstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. jJ. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmllian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Frariz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Al.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 98,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
AI. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U’.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., Al.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yefnon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210,Mount Yemon-street.Philadelphia.U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes: Esq., Aterignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Alontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke
The BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world!. Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, ISs. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61,' LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above. -
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.   ; 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 17,8, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Alile
End, London, E.  
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, Clairvoyant and
Trance Medium,- No. 14; Southampton-row. Seances
attended at residence if desired. At home 11 to 5.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at bis
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
\\r J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
vv • will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sill wood-road
TL. HENLY, Mesmerist, 5, St. James s-
• terrace, Notting-hill.- - “ Your treatment of insanity is
excellent.”—George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great- Cumberland-place,
Hyde-park, to whom reference is permitted.
MRS. PARKER Lectures on all Social
Reform Subjects, and attends Drawing Room Dis¬
cussions. Now at Pekin House, 11, Elizabeth-place, Jersey.
Hours from 12 to 5.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “Spiritualist,’’ 18, Atliogworth-
street, Marine Parade.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 61.., paper cover, Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
he had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Wooinor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the hook.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
A CATALOGUE of a most extraordinary
callection of six hundred works on Alchemy, Appari¬
tions, Astrology, Chiromancy, Dreams, Geomancy, Mesmerism,
Physiognomy, Psychology, The Rosierueians, Freemasons, and
Mystics, Sorcery and Witchcraft, with some curious miscel¬
laneous books, will be sent post free on receipt of six penny
stamps, which will be returned to purchasers by John Wilson,
12, King William-street, Charing-eross.
NEATLY PRINTED PAMPHLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6tf., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTBIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous,
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information,, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’’
J[ tit ]Pjjtigq$$ tif nub ttf
Vo^ujviE Tejh. Kumber Twenty-five.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 22nd, 1877.
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MESMERISM AND I !
SPIRITUALISM. ; j
So close is the relationship between spiritual and mes- I |
meric phenomena, that little progress can be made in adding 11)
to our knowledge of the former, without first closely examin- 11 j
ing and studying the latter. I / j
For instance, the usually accepted theory of trance medium- j vj =
ship is that a spirit mesmerises the medium, and by will- j jj
power induces the medium to express the thoughts or words |?l
of the unseen operator. To show the possibility of this, Mr. j| |:
J. M. Peebles once actually controlled a mesmeric sensitive, ! u
and by will-power forced him to utter whatever he (Mr. m
Peebles) thought. By the repetition of experiments such as j j |
this, the difficulties spirits encounter in controlling sensitives ! I
can probably be ascertained; by the same method it may jjj
also be possible to find out why names, dates, and places can j j j
be given accurately through the organism of one sensitive, jj j
and nothing but teachings or ideas through another.
We have often broached the theory that in one kind of jjj!
seeing mediumship, u what the spirit thinks the medium j j
sees ”; this theory accounts for many strange, symbolical, jjj
and fantastic visions. Mr. Thaddeus Hyatt, in his paper j j j
recently read before the Psychological Society, told how a m
mesmerist willed him to see a number of little men trotting jjj
about in a park, and he saw them accordingly without having j j j
been told previously what the mesmerist wishedhim to behold, j j
Experiments in this direction will lay bare many of the j j
secrets of seeing mediumship. I I
Once at the rooms of the National Association of Spirit- j I
ualists, Mr. Harrison requested a mesmerist to will his j j.
sensitive to see a spirit, and to further will him to believe j j
that that spirit was inspiring him to utter words of wisdom jjj
to reform the world. This was done, and the sensitive i j I
uttered some common-place remarks in the full belief that j j
he was inspired to utter them by a spirit he saw before him, j j
whose name, he said, was Sarah Godbold. When he awoke jjj
from the mesmeric sleep, he, in answer to questions, sheepishly j j
admitted that he was acquainted with a young lady still j I
living in the body, whose name was Sarah Godbold, and j j j
who was rather nice-looking. This experiment raises the j j j
question whether, if a mesmeric sensitive goes to sleep under j j
the influence of the thoughts of a number of people, and j j j
in the belief that he will be controlled by a spirit, he may j j j
not unintentionally as the result sometimes give a trance j I
address without any spirit but his own being at the root of jjj
his teachings. This matter could be more or less solved by j j
research. j j
On the other side of the problem, cases are mentioned in jjj
Professor Gregory’s book on Animal Magnetism, in which j j
sensitives under the hands of mesmerists professed to see j j
spirits or to be somebody else, without the operator pur- j j:
posely evolving any such phenomena. -j jj;
A lady living at Hackney is able to place her finger on j j [,
the arm of her daughter, and by will-power to cause her to j j
write sentences without the daughter being informed of the j j j
words intended to be written. The power varies according jj!
to the part of the arm which is touched. Here, then, we jjj
have the phenomena of writing mediumship produced j j I
through a mesmeric sensitive by a spirit still in the body, jjj
We hope that this reference to a most valuable and interest- jjj
ing fact will induce the chief operators connected therewith j j j
to give all the details, and to themselves publicly authen- j j j
ticate the circumstances. j j i
Thus, by mortals taking the place of spirits, and attempt- j j j
ing to control sensitives themselves, some of the phenomena j j
of trance, clairvoyance, writing mediumship, and inspira- j j j
tional speaking can be produced and studied. But does the j j
power stop here? We have often wished to make a mes- jj j
meric sensitive in the trance state believe that his spirit was Tfi
out of his body, and to order his spirit to move a chair. If
this could be done, and an invisible something, which if
seen, would appear to be the u double ” of the medium,
could be made to move furniture, the experiment would
initiate others tending to solve many a perplexing problem
connected with physical mediumship.
Can the weight of a sensitive be altered by mesmerism ?
Professor Gregory says that a mesmerist told him that he
had produced such a result. If so, here seems to be a path¬
way to the explanation of the phenomenon of the floating of
mediums in the air, and it should be explored by the aid of
experimental investigation.
Some of the disadvantages of proceeding upon a false
theory came out clearly at the recent meetings of the
National Association of Spiritualists, resulting in the altering
of the phrase “materialisation manifestations” to “form
manifestations.” When physical mediumship first began to
be known, nearly everybody, naturally enough, looked upon
the mediums surrounded by such signs and wonders, as the
prophets of this latter day dispensation, as persons living in
the odour of sanctity, as authorities in matters of morals
and religion. Without throwing any slur upon some of the
excellent and trustworthy physical mediums we have in
London and elsewhere, it is now certain that the possession
of medial powers is not necessarily a certificate of . high
character; that some powerful physical mediums who came
here from America some years ago were financial swindlers ;
that others have swindled the public by exhibiting genuine
raediumship as conjuring, and that others have made despe¬
rate attempts, out of jealousy, to ruin their rivals and
unfriends by the invention and circulation of the most
circumstantial untruths, thus sowing the seeds of dissension
between honourable but too credulous people. But Spirit¬
ualists are now on their guard against these sources of
weakness to the movement. On the true theory that
mediums are sometimes in the state of sensitives under the
hands of a mesmerist, who can make them do the most
absurd things, while they appear to be wide awake and in
full possession of their senses, nobody now regards physical
mediums as authorities in matters of morals, science, or
religion. Here again does the value of knowledge of the
relationship between mesmeric and spiritual states become
palpable.
Professor Gregory, in his book, sets forth that the presence
in the room of particular persons sometimes made his mes¬
meric sensitives so uncomfortable that few or no phenomena
were evolved. Herein are seen the same causes which
operate to weaken spiritual manifestations with half-de¬
veloped mediums when antagonistic influences are in the room.
When original research shall be resumed in connection
with Spiritualism, mesmerism offers a fine field for experi¬
mental investigation, aided by the light of the modern
knowledge of spiritual phenomena. We have heard that
the Psychological Society is likely to investigate in this
fruitful direction, and while wishing it all success, regret
that those who possess more knowledge of psychology and
its phenomena appear likely to be left in the rear in the
prosecution of this most valuable work.
As regards the great majority of Spiritualists, nothing is
so much needed at the present time as the familiarising of
them with the facts and phenomena of mesmerism, such
being calculated to remove many erroneous ideas about
mediumship, and to implant many true ones. Moreover,
the spiritual movement itself would be strengthened by
entering into alliance as much as possible with mesmerists,
and by encouraging their presence upon our platforms.
The more psychologists of all shades of opinion unite and
work together, the more will they advance the truths they
advocate, and the worse will it be for opposing materialists.
290
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 22, 1877,
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Off Monday, last week, at one of the ordinary fortnightly meetings
of the members and friends of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, 88, Great Russell-street, London, Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., presided.
THE TREATMENT OP MEDIUMS.
Signor Bondi: Having been asked by the chairman to express some
of my ideas concerning the training or development of mediums, I do
it with the greatest pleasure, because I believe that at the present
moment it is a subject of the highest importance. Professed men of
science and atheists, blinded by their hatred of religion, prompted by
their eager desire to crush the little faith which exists in the world,
and urged by priestly bigotry and intolerance (not forgetting the genius
of conjurors for business) have dealt hard blows at Spiritualism ; the
facts are of recent occurrence, and in everybody’s mouth as well as
mind. It is, therefore, the duty of all those who take an interest in
the propagation of this holy truth to endeavour to discover the best
means of studying its doctrine and its science, as well as the culture of
mediums. I am not able to help, or to add to the experience of such
distinguished writers and speakers as Mr. Stainton-Moses, Mr. Shorter,
Mr. Hairison, and many others I might mention. I may, however,
having been permitted to do so, suggest some ideas which would enable
us to attain the end we all so ardently desire. I have, in common with
Mr. Stainton-Moses and Mr. W. H. Harrison, a great dislike to cabinets
or curtains ; but before discarding these, there are other things, in my
ooinion, which it is far more desirable to dispense with, namely, the
binding and sealing of mediums, sacks, cages, and other devices by
which the medium is supposed to be secured ; these are more baneful
than useful to the cause. Many times I have heard (and it will
probably be said to me now) that these means are resorted to for the
sake of convincing sceptics; but I do not believe that this end is
attained by such means, and I can bring forward proof of what I am
stating. Frequently I have taken friends, who were willing to become
believers, to the Rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, to
witness some of the phenomena as obtained at these public seances, but
what was the result ? Although the manifestations were what Spirit¬
ualists would call ‘‘very good,” and although the inquirers themselves
helped to sew the sleeves of the coat of the medium, and to bind him
with tapes, in spite of all this, mv friends -—who, as I have already stated,
had a great de.-ire to be converted—took a great disgust to the whole
proceeding, saying that such things could be seen in the streets of
London, and performed far better by conjurors. Circumstances,
coupled with an answer such as I am going to recount, have happened
to me so frequently that I have made up my mind as to the inadvis¬
ability of allowing strangers to join spirit circles. A few years a"0
the late Mr. Macuire, M.P., having expressed to me the desire to see
spiritual manifestations, I invited him to a seance in my studio. We
had one of the most remarkable seances I ever attended. When the
seance was over I asked Mr. Maguire what were his impressions on the
subject. “ Well,” he said, “ that which 1 have seen here to-day is not
a work done by any of us here ; I can vouch for that; but I must see
some more before I can give my opinion on the subject. Will you ask me
again 1” I promised to do so, but he died shortly after. Owing to such
experiences as this one I am satisfied that the means adopted by the
British National Association of binding, sealing mediums, will never
make a Spiritualist. On the contrary, as soon as they have seen one
phenomenon they must see another, and then a third, and if this or a
fourth one fails from some cause they do not understand, they call the
whole thing imposture. What are, therefore, the means by which a
better state of things could be brought about? I suggest that the
Association should use its best endeavours to discover several kinds of
young, undeveloped mediums: that these should be kept and paid by
the Association, under an agreement which should be strictly carried
out, either at the rooms of the Association or at the house of an expe¬
rienced medium, who would undertake to become the trainer of the
young mediums. By the same persons sitting four or five, but not more
than six together regularly, upon the same days of the week and at the
same hour, after a few months the results would be undoubtedly very
great. There are many kinds of mediumship, and it will be for the
Association to decide what kinds of mediumship it would be most
useful to develope in the good of the cause. It appears to me that
trance, test, and healing mediums would be the best to encourage,
because I firmly believe them to be most successful in preparing the
minds and convincing those who see and hear them. I do not see the
use of the seances held here, unless we can at once get such a medium as
we have now in Miss Kate Cook, or like others we have on the Continent,
or like those who, after we had simply joined hands in my own room, or in
the open streets of Rome with the clear full moonlight streaming on us,
obtained spirits who joined us, and who produced all the manifestations
we get here in the dark or by the aid of cabinets. How is it that we
abroad obtained such results P Because for many months we allowed
the presence of no strangers to break the indispensable harmony of our
circle, and because we sat regularly twice and even three times a week,
at stated intervals, for certain periods. You will probably ask what
kind of phenomena or manifestations were obtained by this strict
method of carrying out spiritual conditions. We obtained, with one
single medium, all the divers kinds of manifestations obtained here by
different mediums—the transportation of human beings from one part of
the city to the other ; materialisation of spirit forms, heads, hands, in
full moonlight or by candle light; dropping of coins of different coun¬
tries about us, either in the street while walking, or in the room when
sitting; coats turned inside out without the wearers being aware of the
phenomenon, while we were walking two or three or more together;
flowers and sweets brought after our simply joining hands; writing, trance
speaking in different languages (as many as eight) unknown to the medium,
• s j and various other phenomena I will not now mention, because they are
| )| too wonderful to be believed, and I might take up too much time. The
| )| medium being so far developed, we then introduced one stranger at a
j si time, who we had previously taken steps to ascertain was in a fit state
i) i for receiving spiritual truth. But although wonderful manifestations
I I occurred in the street, whenever the same mediums were forced or per-
j s i suaded to sit in a strange place, and with strange influences, the greater
i ji phenomena very seldom occurred. Therefore, I am not at all surprised
II j whenever I hear that the power of such or such a medium has entirely
H| failed, and that when one of our very good mediums was invited by
j) | some priests to sit for physical phenomena in their own house, under
|(| the conditions they imposed, nothing of any kind took place. And
i )i why ? Because not only were they opposed to such manifestations, but
j): their minds were prepared beforehand to crush, if possible, all such
I ij proofs of spirit-power as might bring intelligent conviction of the mean-
i)j ing of “communion of saints” to human beings, without priestly
|) \ despotic interference. Mr. Eglinton was, or rather his spirit guides
\j were, not on that occasion successful. But, I ask, would or could
|>j Christ himself always command the spirit-power by which He, a son of
|) | man, worked miracles ? When the Pharisees asked for a sign from
| \j Him (Matt. xii. 38), He refused to give them what they asked for. He,
| j | the Great Master, was not impressed to gratify their idle curiosity.
|) I Again, Matt. xii. 58, “ He did not many mighty works there because of
at their unbelief.” The atmosphere was not congenial to Him. Again,
III in the story of the fig tree (Mark xi. 13), He himself must have lacked
111 faith or power sufficient to cause eatable figs to grow on a fig tree which
111 had only leaves on it. Christ must have known perfectly well, as did
I) | His disciples, that “ the time of figs was not yet.” When they went up
|(| to the fig tree they knew that nothing short of a miracle could have
i j | produced fruit at that time of year. Christ, therefore, cursed that fig
i) | tree: in the morning when the disciples saw the fig tree dried up by the
j|| roots, Peter drew his attention, evidently inquiringly, to the fact that
|j| the fig tree had withered away, and Jesus answered, “Have faith in
j j God,” and he added, “What thing soever ye desire, when ye pray,
| (1 believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.” Surely this was
i) ! equivalent to his explaining to his disciples that although he had
i|i desired the figs, He had not prayed for them, and that He, as well as
jj| they, knowing that “ the time for figs was not yet,” had only gone to the
j) j tree on the chance, and not with the firm conviction that He should re-
i {i ceive what he desired. To prove, therefore, to the disciples that the
H| spirit which wrought by him was all-powerful, He commanded the fig-
jj tree to wither, making manifest thereby that the same power which
| |j enabled Him to wither the fig tree was almighty to have made ripe figs
| (| grow thereon, had there not been wanting to the miracle the necessary
j)! element demanded, and which should have been contributed by man:—
||| Faith in God, that Holy Spirit which extends its graciousness and
; \ | wonders to all kinds of events, and which, to many, for their want of
i | belief or hardness of heart, appear most inexplicable and
Iw j even trivial. Had Mr. Eglinton submitted to several experi¬
ments under the self-same disagreeable circumstances referred to
above, I have no doubt that the spirits ultimately would have forced
| their way through the barrier of self-sufficiency, bigotry, and supersti¬
tion, which upon that occasion they refrained from passing. I am sorry,
for my part, that Mr. Eylinton did not accept the “ invitation,” or rather
the “ challenge ” of the Rev. Pastor, but I have heard that Mr. Eglinton
I has been very unwell ever since that stance. Mediums are generally
so very delicate and sensitive that they are less adapted than other
human beings to go through hardships either mental or physical. The
least thing disturbs them : the greater the power of the medium the more
sensitive is he, and consequently more liable to be upset. A little mental
| or physical trouble upsets the medium completely, and the manifesta-
|| tions are unsuccessful. I have several times asked spirits why the mani¬
festations were not so good. The answer was “ The medium is not well.”
How can we expect to obtain regular phenomena, which will infallibly
convince sceptics, unless we believers first set to work to obtain and
insist upon conditions favourable to mediums ? How if mediums are
i treated as at present, can we hope to obtain good manifestations ? Let
| us make mediums comfortable; let us treat them generously, and I have
i no doubt the results will be great. I am not of those who pretend that
mediums could or should work for nothing. The priest who pretends to
send our souls to heaven is paid, the lawyer takes care to make sure of
his fee before he does anything for you, the doctor is paid for what often
does more harm than good, and yet no one says priesthood, the law, or
medicine, is humbug, or that the members of such professions should cure
souls, cure bodies, or give advice gratis. In ancient times mediums or
oracles were regarded as privileged beings, entrusted with sacred
missions. It was the custom for emperors, kings, priests, for the
learned as well as the ignorant, to crave their advice. They were
guarded and watched like precious stones, very different treatment to
j what happens in our days. We must be progressing, however, for fifty
j years ago our mediums would have been regarded in England as
j witches and sorcerers, and ducked, drowned, or burnt. Abroad, they
would have been handed over to the mercies of the Holy Inquisition,
i The fate of Galileo is too well known to be repeated here. Still, while
under the torture inflicted by the monks who exhorted him to retract
i what he had fully demonstrated as a great truth, he stamped his foot on
| the ground and exclaimed, “ E pur si muove" (and yet it moves). So
| can Spiritualists exclaim that in spite of all antagonism and
obstacles brought to bear against it on all sides, Spiritualism is
fast spreading all over the world. There are yet many whose
minds are not in a fit state to receive this grand truth, and in my
opinion it is necessary to be reincarnated several times, perhaps,
j before being enabled to accept knowledge of this great blessing.
| Professor Tyndall once said, “ The eye is not a perfect instrument. It
! is capable of that only for which it is fitted. It receives impressions
j only of things within its environment.” We can say with him—As with
I the eye, so with the human brain. There are some minds so constituted
201
June 22,1877. THE STIHITUALIST.
that they can only receive those things which come within the range of
their mental vision. On the Continent, and, I can frankly say without
fear of contradiction, in my own country, Italy, where I have been able
to study and to see a great deal more than other places, Spiritualism is
not by any means behind England. Spiritualists, or “ Spiritists,’’ as we
are called there, care very little for physical manifestations. These
are considered, if I may so express myself, as the finishing touches on
the canvas of a picture which a painter adds just before sending it away
from his studio. I know of many believers, and of many authors of
spiritual works, who never think of going to a seance for physical mani¬
festations. They firmly believe that spirits can do wonders under certain
conditions, and in accordance with several well-known spirit-world laws,
so they devote themselves more to the study of their philosophy, and of
the doctrine through which the various phenomena are produced. In
conclusion, I must say I fear I have trespassed for too long a period on
your time, and yet I have said but little. There is so much to be said,
I will now leave it to the members of the British National Association
of Spiritualists to take into consideration measures which are necessary
for the elevation of Spiritualism, and which will raise it from that
apathy, that discouragement, and that uncertainty under which it is at
present suffering, into that plain and clear understanding of its facts and
laws, whereby each individual may be able to know what he may
expect.
Dr. Carter Blake remarked that no medium had been sealed at
recent stances of the National Association of Spiritualists; it had been
done on former occasions for special purposes. Canon Gilbert was
honest in his investigation of spiritual phenomena, and was about to
make a more searching and prolonged examination.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that although the tests applied sometimes
seemed to be humiliating, still the object to be served altered the
complexion of the case; sceptics naturally required the tests, which,
however, should not be applied at circles consisting entirely of Spirit¬
ualists.
Miss Kislingbury said she should like to explain the position of the
Association towards mediums, as regards putting them under tests.
The Association had to provide for two classes of requirement. A
large number of inquirers were constantly presenting themselves who
had no means of carrying on their investigations in private or iri their
own homes, and who had not sufficient knowledge of, or confidence
in, public mediums to attend seances at the mediums’ own rooms.
They were generally well impressed with the appearance of things at
Great Russell-street, and with the orderly and straightforward manner
in which the seances were conducted. It would be useless to show such
persons phenomena not under test conditions, and in circles not arranged
to suit their requirements. Miss Kislingbury said the experience of
herself and of the Seance Committee of the Association was that the
mediums preferred being put under tests, as their character for honesty
was thus placed above suspicion. The controls of the mediums who
sat at the Association also preferred it, and had expressed themselves
perfectly satisfied with the arrangements. The results had been all
that could be desired. The same inquirers came again and again, and
finally, after passing through a sufficient number of experiences of this
class, they generally became members of the Association, and were ad¬
mitted to another class of circles, where more advanced manifestations
were obtained, the medium not being subjected to any restraint. Miss
Kislingbury fully sympathised with what Signor Bondi had said of our
obligations to mediums, that we were deeply indebted to them, and
owed them every kindness, at the same time she thought that mediums
also had duties towards those who employed them. For instance, ,
when they were engaged to give a seance in the evening, they had no j
right to exhaust themselves by sitting in the afternoon, and sometimes i j
also in the morning of the same day. She was not sure that it was a
good thing for a professional medium to give up all other worx, though
she knew the difficulties of combining two occupations. She had ob¬
served that manual labour, where there was moderate physical exertion
but no anxiety or mental strain, was beneficial to the development of
mediumship, as it preserved the equilibrium of the faculties. The
home of the Greatest Spiritual Teacher had been a carpenter’s work¬
shop, and poets had been ploughmen and blacksmiths. Even great
intellectual thinkers performed certain mechanical labours without
detriment, and often with pleasure. The afternoons before giving a
physical seance should be spent by the medium in sleep. The great
demand at present was for simple manifestations in the light, which
contained their own test, and were undeniable.
Mr. Edward Maitland, in his first inquiries, had been more im¬
pressed with the failures of mediums than the successes, because a
conjurer never failed. Too much stress could not be laid on the personal
character of the medium, when the question of the genuineness of the
phenomena was at stake.
Mr. Parkinson Ashton said that the public would not be satisfied
without tests, but he hoped in time to see a better class of inquirers.'
Mr. Harrison thought that the best and most advanced phenomena
could only be obtained under the conditions laid down by Signor Bondi,
but such circles would do for Spiritualists only; honest inquirers should
not be prevented seeing anything, and for them seances under other
conditions were necessary. The only point in Signor Bondi’s paper to
which he specially demurred was the singling out the seances of the
National Association of Spiritualists, for at those seances mediums were
better treated than at others held by themselves in their own rooms.
During the long period stances had been held on the premises, only once
had a medium been insulted, because the system of introduction of
observers was a tolerable safeguard against the admission of roughs; it
had only failed once. The mediums were pleased to come to the
seances, and appreciated the kindness with which they were treated;
the Association was pleased, because the orderly seances proved so suc¬
cessful ; and the inquirers were so pleased that, not only did nearly all
of them turn Spiritualists, but statistics showed that a large number o
|| them entered their names as permanent members of the National Asso-
| ciation. The paper ought rather to have been directed against mediums
giving test stances in their own rooms and at private houses; and if the
| mediums followed the advice their occupation would be gone. Physical
| mediumship was no test of character; a medium might be a most
! upright man or a great swindler, consequently, the honourable men and
women who publicly testified to the reality of the phenomena should
only certify those manifestations which it was beyond the power of the
| medium to produce, so that, in the event of any subsequent misconduct
| of the latter individual, the public should have no power to bring the
| tongue of slander to bear upon witnesses to that which was true.
| The Bev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., thought that few persons knew
j the sensitiveness of a medium, and how the manifestations felt like
I cords, drawing out the inner soul of him. When would they establish
| “ Schools of the Prophets l ’’ Investigators ought not to be allowed to
| hinder those who were a little in advance of themselves, yet at public
I circles the phenomena were lowered to the level of the most ignorant.;
i circles should be graduated to meet the requirements of those in dif¬
ferent stages of advancement. If people were invited to a seance the
j mediums were bound to submit to a certain amount of testing, to sof-
I ficient, indeed, to satisfy them as to the reality of the phenomena. But
j private circles, which did not invite visitors, but told them it was pre¬
ferable that they should stop away, and that the seances were con-
| sidered in a measure to be religious services, were under no such obli-
I gation. Other circles, however, were bound so to present the mani-
| festations that they should be beyond suspicion,
j The Chairman remarked that Professor Tyndall’s experiments dealt
| with phenomena which were simplicity itself as compared with those
I witnessed by Spiritualists. Mr. Eglinton’s illness seemed to have
something to do with the stance at Canon Gilbert’s : he had never been
| well since.
| The discussion was then adjourned.
NEW MEDIUMS AND SPIBIT CIBCLES.
i To put in practice the plan mentioned in the last number of The
I Spiritualist, we are having 100,000 leaflets printed, containing instruc-
j tions “ How to Form Spirit Circles at Home.” These will be ready
j to-morrow, or on Monday, and will be supplied at Is. per packet of
300 post free, or Is. 6d. per packet of 5u0 post free. If only one
leaflet in 500 results in the formation of a new and successful circle,
the previous trouble and expense will have been so small as to demon¬
strate the economy and ease of this method of extending Spiritualism.
We will publish how many of these leaflets are circulated iu the
various towns of the United Kingdom.
Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld is now in London on a brief visit.
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D., in a letter to us dated New York,
June 8th, says :—“ Mr. Bobert Dale Owen is my guest at present. I
am sorry to say his health is not by any means good.”
The Barrow Herald of June 16th contains a report, two columns and
a half long, of a remarkable stance through the mediumship of Miss
Wood.
Dr. Slade’s offer to Professor Lankester will be printed as an adver¬
tisement in Nature to-day. Nature, published by Macmillan & Co., is
the chief and best weekly organ of scientific men.
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, who is now living at Merignac, near Bor¬
deaux, has had a fall; he descended on his head, and is suffering from a
slight injury to his chest. Many friends will await with anxiety
further news of his state of health, as he is widely known and es¬
teemed.
Beligious Mania.—On Sunday night a strange episode took place in
the Baptist Chapel, Shaw-street. During the progress of the service a
woman, who was suffering from religious mania, rose up and requested
to be allowed to “ sing a song,” which she at once commenced. She was
with some difficulty removed, and handed over to her friends.—Liverpool
Daily Post, 12th June, 1877.
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism. — The
ordinary monthly session of the Council of this Association was held
at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, on Thursday evening last week, under
I the vice-presidency of Mrs. Corner. There were also present Mrs. M.
| T. Wood, Mr. John Bouse, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, and Mr. Thomas
Blyton. The minutes of the last ordinary and special sessions of
Council, dated 10th and 24th May respectively, were read and con¬
firmed. Letters of general interest were read from Mr. H. A. Kersey,
j the hon. corresponding secretary to the Newcastle-on-Tyne Psycho¬
logical Society, and Mr. J. Mclsack. Presentations were laid upon the
table, and accepted with a cordial vote of thanks to the respective
donors, viz.—Dr. William B. Carpenter, F.B.S., Professor Adolphe
| Didier, Mr. James Regan, Mr. W. J. Colville, Sir Charles [sham, Bart.,
and Mr. Thomas Blyton. Progress was reported in the matter of
removal to new premises. A letter was read from Mr. Eglinton, whose
| health and absence from town prevented a proposed engagement, and
i the substitution of a lecture by Mr. John Bouse, announced for the 28th
inst., was approved. The hon. secretary reported a series of subscrip¬
tion stances with Mr. J. W. Fletcher, which had proved productive of
II satisfaction to many of the subscribers. Notices of resignation of
membership from Miss Thomson and Mr. H. P. Inman were accepted
with regret. An offer from Mr. B. A. March to deliver a “ Lec ure
and Beadings on Milton’s Paradise Lost, from a Spiritualist Point of
View,” was accepted for Thursday evening, the 26th July next. It was
| unanimously resolved that an invitation be tendered to Sir Char les
Isham, Bart., of honorary membership, as a slight acknowledgment of
his efficient services and researches in Spiritualism. The proceedings
‘ then closed,
292
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 22, 1877,
THE DIVINING ROD.
BY 8. E. BE MORGAN.
The question whether a real emanation is given off or
conducted in cases of mesmerism and the divining-rod is of
importance to students of psychology. The following state¬
ments have an especial bearing on the hypothetical connec¬
tion of what is called the ‘‘ mesmeric fluid” or “ influence”
with water. Perhaps this is the most material form of the
action of the force, and may, therefore, form a sound foun¬
dation for the physical science of the whole subject.
The account of the divining rod is taken from the fourth
volume of Recreations in Mathematical Philosophy, first com¬
posed by M. Ozanam, of the Royal Academy of Science, <fc.,
recomposed by the celebrated M. Montucla, and translated and
enlarged by Dr. Charles Hutton, LL.D., F.R.S., Emeritus
Professor of Mathematics in the Royal Military Academy, Wool¬
wich. Longmans and Co., London. 1814. As Dr. Hutton was
not only a mathematician, but an experimental philosopher,*
his testimony cannot well be rejected on the ground of his
not having cultivated scientific habits of thought.
First, we have Montucla’s apology for mentioning several
superstitious beliefs, and among them the divining rod.
“ We shall here speak of the divining rod, merely because
this illusion, or philosophical quackery, made at one time a
great noise, and because the reader will doubtless expect to
find some account of it in a work of this kind; were not this
the case, such idle dreams would be too contemptible and
too unworthy of the philosophy of the present century to
deserve notice.”
M. Montucla then gives several instances of these con¬
temptible “ idle dreams,” the fate of which, up to this
time, has been to be held “ unworthy of the philosophy of
their century.”
One of these is a Curious instance of the discovery of a
murder in France by the divining rod, the facts of which,
with others as wonderful, were submitted to Malebranche,
** who being,” says Montucla, “ naturally credulous, admitted
them, but supposed they could only be explained by the
compact with an evil spirit.” However, Ditymar, the
diviner, being afterwards tested by the Prince of Conti
(who, like our men of science, imposed his own conditions
before he knew anything of the powers he had to deal with),
failed in making any discovery. The poor man was then set
down as an impostor, and died in poverty. Whereupon
M. Montucla, a mathematician of eminence, and a real
savant in his own line, makes a sagacious reflection on the
credulity of his countrymen :—“ Those who believe in such
reveries must-be exceedingly weak.” The whole of this
chapter, with the instances of clairvoyance given derisively
by M. Montucla, but which appear to be well attested, and
which would find many parallels in.the experience of intel¬
ligent Spiritualists, would be worth extracting if I could
trespass so far upon your columns ; but my object is to give
a well-described and well authenticated account of the
divining rod.
The editor, Dr. Hutton, was too honest to allow M. Mon-
tucla’s remarks on superstition to pass without a word on
the other side -
“ Notwithstanding the incredulity above expressed by
Montucla relative to the indication of springs by the motion
of the baquette, or divining rod, there appear to exist such
evidences of the reality of that motion, as it seems next to
impossible to be questioned. The editor of this edition, in
common with many other persons, notwithstanding the
numerous accounts of that motion which have been published
to the world, and attested by multitudes of eye-witnesses, was
still incredulous, and remained satisfied that there must
have been some trick used in making the experiment, by
which the spectators might be deceived and imposed on. But,
since the publication of the former edition of this translation,
such evidence of the motion in question has been exhibited,
as leaves no doubt on the minds of all the spectators as to
the reality of that motion. This evidence was brought
about in the following manner. Soon after the publication
of the said former edition of these Recreations, the editor
* I may be mistaken in the statement, but think that the Mathematical and Philosophical
Pecrcatwns consist almost entirely of experiments in physical science and instances of
applied mathematics.
H received by the post the following well-written pseudonymous
| letter on the subject of the problem :—
ih £ t | Feb. 10,1805.
| i Sir,—Having lately read in your translation of Montucla’s Recrea-
j | tions the article respecting the Divining Rod, I am tempted to trouble
i you with an account of the real powers it may possess. From the
< | character 1 have universally heard of your candour, I am inclined to
11 think you will place confidence in what I shall relate. It may afford
)! you some amusement, and should you, from reflecting on the facts,
(j discover the cause, it would be a great gratification to me to be informed
11 of your discovery.
H I have perused the history of La Baguette Dicinatoire ;* in that
(| book much superstition and fable are blended with the simple truth,
i i Natural philosophy had made but little progress at the period when
) | that book was written, and they joined together things that had no
11 other connection than that from erroneous ideas. Even in these more
! I enlightened days the absurdity of animal magnetism, founded on some
) | allusion to the real magnet, has found partisans and believers ; yet that
| folly cannot shake the conviction of the influence of the magnet, though
! not yet, I believe, satisfactorily accounted for.
I In the year 1772 (I was then nineteen), I passed six months at Aix,
i in Provence. I there heard the popular story of one of the fountains
I j having been discovered some generations before, by a boy who always
i expressed an aversion, in passing one particular spot, crying out there
II was water. This was heki by myself and the family I was with in
I j utter contempt. . . .
In the course of the spring the family went to pass a week at the
II Chateau d’Ansoni’s, situated a few miles to the north of the Durance, a
I j tract of country very mountainous, and where water is ill supplied. We
[ j found the Marquis d’Ansonis busied in erecting what might be termed
a miniature aqueduct, to convey a spring the distance of half a league,
r I or nearly, to his chateau; which spring, he asserted, had been dis-
| covered by a peasant who made the discovery of water his occupation,
and maintained himself by it, and was known by the name of Vhomme
j ala baquette. His real name has escaped my recollection, but you will
find some account of him in one of the Annual Registers near the
period I have named, I believe that of I772.f
This account was received with unbelief, almost amounting to
derision. The Marquis being discredited, sent for the man, and re-
j quested we would witness the experiment. A large party of French
II and English accordingly attended. The man was quite a peasant in
11 manners and appearance ; he produced some twigs cut from a hazel, of
| different sizes and strength, only they were the forked branches, and
hazel was preferred as forking more equally than most other trees;
but it is not requisite that the angle should be of any particular
number of degrees. He held the ends of the twigs between each fore-
| fingers and thumbs, with the vertex pointing downwards. Standing
i. where there was no water, the baquette remained motionless; walking
j gradually to the spot where the spring was underground, the twig was
sensibly affected ; and as he approached the spot, began to turn round
| —that is, raised itself and turned towards his body, and continued to
| turn till the point was vertical; it then again descended outwards,
i and continued to .turn, describing a circle, so long as he remained
] standing over the spring, or till one or both the branches were broken
by the twisting, the ends being firmly grasped by the fingers and
i thumbs, and the hands kept stationary, so that the rotatory motion must
of course twist them. After seeing him do this repeatedly, the whole
party tried the baquette in succession, but without effect. I chanced
to be the last. No sooner did I hold the twig as directed, than it began
to move as with him, which startled me so much that I dropped it and
felt considerably agitated. I was, however, induced to resume the ex¬
periment, and found the effect perfect. I was then told it was no very
i unusual thing, many having that faculty which, from what has since
come to my knowledge, I have reason to believe is true. On my re-
! turn to England, I forbore to let this faculty (or whatever you may
term it) be known, fearing to become the topic of conversation or dis-
| cussion. But, two years afterwards, being on a visit to a nobleman’s
! house in Huntingdonshire, and his lady lamenting that she was dis¬
appointed of building a dairy house in a spot she particularly wished,
j because there was no water to be found, a supply she looked on as
| essential; under promise of secrecy, I told her 1 would endeavour to
j find a spring. I accordingly procured some hazel twigs, and, in the
] presence of herself and her husband, walked over the ground proposed
|j till the twig turned, with considerable force. A stake was driven into
11 the ground to mark the spot, which was not very distant from where
[j they had tried before. They then took me to another, and distant,
i] building in the park, and desired me to try there. I found the
i) baquette turn very strong, so that it soon twirled and broke. The
s,- gentleman persisted that there was no water there unless at a very
11 great depth, the foundation being very deep (a considerable stone
11 cellar), and that no water appeared when they dug for it. I could
| only reply that I could have no more (knowledge) than from the baquette
I j turning, and that I had too little experience of its powers to answer
j | certainly for the truth of its indication. He then acknowledged that
when the building was erected they were obliged to drive piles for the
j whole foundation, as they met with nothing but a quicksand. This
j induced him to dig in the spot I first directed, and they met with a
j i very fluent spring. The dairy was built, and is at this time supplied
II by it. I could give a long detail of other trials I have made, all of
which have been convincing of the truth, but they would be tedious.
For some years past I have been indifferent about its becoming known,
| and have consequently been frequently requested to show the experi-
| ment, which has often been to persons in high estimation for under-
j standing and knowledge, and I believe they have all been convinced.
* By the AbM Vallemont. t Note by Editor. It is at page 96, part II., of that year.
June 22, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
293
Three people I have met •with who have, on trying, found themselves
possessed of the same faculty. I shall only add one more particular
incident. Having once shown it to a party, we returned into the house
to a room on the ground floor. I was again asked to show how I held
the twig • taking one in my hand I found it turned immediately ; on
which an old lady, mother to the gentleman of the house, said that that
room was formed out of an old cloister, in which cloister was a well,
simply boarded over when they made the room.
L'homme d la baqueite, from experience, could, with tolerable
accuracy, tell the depth at which the springs were, and their volumes
from the force with which the baquette turns. I can only give a rough
guess. In strong frost I think its powers are not so great. In a boat,
or on a bridge, it has no effect. The water must be underground to
affect the baquette, and running through wooden pipes acts the same
as a spring; even being arched over does not prevent it, as I felt a
spring broke out in a cellar {sic) standing in a stone passage over the
arch. I can neither make the baquette turn when there is no water,
nor prevent it from turning when there is any, and I am perfectly
ignorant of the cause why it turns.
The only sensation I am sensible of is an emotion similar to that felt
on being startled by sudden noise, or surprise of any kind. If, sir,
you can throw any light on this fact I hope you will indulge me by
communicating your conjectures (address given). If you should think
it worth your trouble to make any queries on the subject, I will, with
pleasure, reply to them.—I am, sir, &c., X. Y. Z.
Dr. Hutton, making a suitable acknowledgment, and
declaring his utter ignorance of the cause, &c., but a wish to
hear more, received the following from X. Y. Z.*
Sib,-.—I have received your letter, &c. ... I lament that you can
throw no light on this extraordinary circumstance, which has ever
strongly excited my curiosity. ... A very sensible and well-informed
physician imagined it might be occasioned by some singular effect of
electricity on my frame, but could not satisfy himself of the certainty of
his conjecture. I shall most probably be in London next winter, and
will, if you wish it, afford you an opportunity of making your own
observations of this curious fact, of which you may give any account
you please. .. .
The nobleman’s house I mentioned in my letter was Kimbolton, and
I make no doubt that the present Duchess of Manchester well remembers
the experiment and its success. ...
With this letter a baquette was sent as a specimen.
The writer on arriving in London wrote to Dr. Hutton,
appointing a day for her to visit him at Woolwich, to show
him the effect of the divining rod.
He thus describes the experiment which he witnessed. I
have heard it described by my own father, a scientific man,
who was one of the party :—
“ At the time appointed the lady with her family arrived
at my house on Woolwich Common, when, after preparing
the rods, &c., they walked out to the grounds, accompanied
by some of my own family and some friends, when Lady
  showed the experiment several times, in different
places, holding the rods, &c., in the manner as described in
her ladyship’s first letter, above given. In the places where
I had good reason to know that no water was to be found,
the rod was always quiescent; but in the other places where |||
I knew there was water below the surface, the rods turned !)|
slowly and regularly, in the manner before described, till the ||i
twigs twisted themselves off below her fingers, which were |||
considerably indented by so forcibly holding the rods between j)j
them. All the company present stood close round the I i
lady, with all eyes intently fixed on her hands and the rods, j ||
to watch if any particular motion might be made by the j >j.
fingers; but in vain, nothing of the kind was perceived, !j!
and all the company could observe no cause or reason why |||
the rods should move in the manner they were seen to do. | I
After the experiments were ended, every one of the company j j
tried the rods in the manner they said the lady had done, m
but without the least motion from any of them. And in |)|
my family we have tried if we could possibly cause the rod
to turn, . . . but in vain; we had no power to accomplish JH
it. . . . While this edition of the book was in the press, jj
thinking the above might form no improper supplement to tyj
what had been said by M. Montucla, . . . I wrote to in- !>j
quire if Lady ’s name might be mentioned in the HI
account I meant to give.” oi
The lady declined to let Dr. Hutton publish her name, |t|
though, she said, “the circumstances were known to so j)|
many, that they would obtain credit without a name being Hi
attached to them.” Rl
In the volume of Hutton’s Recreations, from which I have j)|
made this extract, I find in Mr. De Morgan’s handwriting, m
on an interleaved page:— uj
* The points only denote complimentary phrases, &c., omitted to shorten the long ; (i
extract. 1 (i
Extract of a letter from Hutton to Mr. Bruce (Mem. p. 28):—“I
have also just got published a new edition of the Recreations, with some
amusing additions, among which is the amusing and extraordinary cor¬
respondence with Lady Milbank on the divining rod.”
Lady Milbank was the mother of the late Lady Noel
Byron, with whom I have frequently talked of the hazel
twig, and its conducting powers. It was a forked branch of
this form Y field by the two hands at the forked end.
On more than one occasion when a scientific sceptic was
present, Lady Noel Byron told me that, she had seen her
mother’s fingers pressed down so tightly by him on ach
branch that when the rod turned down the skin was orn
from the fingers by the force of the movement.
As water would seem to be particularly receptive of the
force,* the following account of experiments, made by my¬
self with mesmerised water, may be interesting. I should
not have ventured to bring these forward, on account of my
being perhaps supposed incapable of observing accurately,
had they not been confitmed at the time by another, who
would probably be held to be a more competent observer.
Both accounts were published in the Zoist in 1852.
Mrs. , a respectable, middle-aged woman, whom I knew well,
found, on watching the hands during the process of mesmerising, that
she could see streams of light like sunbeams passing from the fingers.
At the time when this first occurred she had never been put into any
abnormal state by mesmerism. On some occasions she has seen light
stream from the eyes, and appear as a halo over the heads of different
persons. She has frequently watched the process of mesmersing water,
and describes what appears to her as follows:—The light falls from the
fingers till it reaches the bottom of the water,t resting there till the
bottom of the tumbler is covered. It then begins to rise till it reaches
the top of the water, making the whole very bright. This part of the
process occupies from four to six minutes, varying (I think) with the
quantity of water and the strength of the mesmeriser. As soon as the
water is quite full of light a movement like boiling, or the motion of the
waves of the sea takes place, one wave pushing on another, till the
whole of the water is in commotion. This gradually subsides, and the
water becomes quite still. It appears that the time during which the
boiling goes on, is nearly the same as that required to bring the water
to the boiling point. This has been tried many times with the same
result by the same observer. The time possibly might vary with
different mesmerisers. On meeting at the Mesmeric Infirmary with a
young girl who, during the treatment, passed into a partially lucid
state, I begged her to tell me what she saw when water was mesmerised.
She had never been questioned on the subject before. Her description
agreed with that given by Mrs. , with these variations : she spoke
of “blue” instead of “light,” and she said she saw the water full of
very small fishes, which dropped down as the “ blue ” descended,
“ killed as if by a flash of lightning.” When the water was charged
she spoke of its bubbling up, moving and boiling over, “ like the waves
when the sea is rough ; ” described it gradually subsiding; and told me
when it became still. I did not, as in the former instance, note the
time taken up by the process, but the whole seemed to occupy about ten
minutes, the period of the first part seeming to be as long as that of the
second.
The third person from whom I heard a description of this phenomenon
was the matron of the Mesmeric Infirmary, shortly before her appoint¬
ment, and when she knew nothing whatever of Mesmerism. She was
in company with Mrs. watching the influence as it proceeded from
the hands of a strong mesmeriser. The description agreed with those
given above, except that she seemed more dazzled by the brilliancy of
the light than Mrs. . Both exclaimed at the same time when the
boiling subsided.
I have heard from persons who have tried the experiment that small
fishes put into water completely mesmerised drop lifeless to the bottom.
I have not tried this, but it agrees with the statement of the first lucid
patient. S. E. De M.
As the above was written by myself, I fiave changed a
few words for the sake of abridgment.
In The Zoist for the same year, No. 41, p. 85, appears a
confirmation of the above. It is given verbatim:—
Sampford, Braintree, J an. 22nd, 1853.
To the Editor.
Mv dear Sib,—As I can confirm the statement in the last number
of The Zoist relating to the effects produced on water by mesmerising,
I am willing to add my testimony if required.
On being told at the Infirmary that the matron could perceive a
change in the water when mesmerised, I said I should like to try if I
could see anything myself. Accordingly, we both watched the water
together, I having previously told her not to tell me what she saw, when
we both exclaimed at once that a change had taken place. After Mr.
CapernJ had pointed his finger over the water for a few seconds three
appeared a dancing light over the surface (like what is seen over a corn
field on a hot day) ; then the water was put into an undulating motion,
which began to increase, and afterwards a nebulous form like an inverted
cone slowly descended from the surface of the water towards the bottom
* This word is used because at present no better term is known.
t The water should fill about one-third part of a plain tumbler. This should be placed on
the palm of one hand, with the fingers of the other hand pointing downwards into it. The
hands should be kept quite still.
t The Secretary, a very strong mesmeriser.
294
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 22, 1877.
of the glass, I have made these observations at the Infirmary three or
four times. The other day when I was watching the matron mesmeris¬
ing some water for a patient, I distinctly saw the undulating motion.
I can confirm another statement in the same article in The Zoist, and
I learnt from the writer of it that the girl alluded to, who saw living
insects in the water before mesmerising, and saw them dead after
mesmerising, is the same person who once in my presence at the Infirmary
declared that she saw appearances precisely the same. . . .
.... I remain, my dear sir, yours very truly, Jeffery Ekins.
The writer of the above, the Rev. Jeffery Ekins, was a
clergyman of good position. He was descended collaterally
from the family of Sir Isaac Newton, and Mr. De Morgan
had some correspondence with, and gained information from,
him on the subject of Newton’s papers. I do not know
whether he is still living.
All the above described experiments could be easily re¬
peated. Great care should be taken in that with mesmerised
water, not to suggest anything to the seer, and to note down
literally and unquestioningly every word of the description
given. Every seer and every mesmeriser will probably offer
some variety of the phenomenon for observation, and from
these variations, when carefully recorded, much) both physi¬
cally and psychologically may be learnt.
EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS RELATING TO SPIRIT
INDIVIDUALITY.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMER3.
In presenting to the British National Association of
Spiritualists a complete set of casts from materialised spirit
hands and feet, obtained under conditions which preclude all
attempts at explanation by trickery of whatever nature, I
fulfil a most pleasing duty. Since Thursday and Friday last
I have received proofs which place these beautiful and per¬
manent signs of a mysterious power on a level with many
similar unassailable monuments, and all true searchers after
truth will rejoice with me at beholding such pearls. When
facts of mediumship have to speak, we ought to hush down
the “ gossip ” about mediums. In gazing at a sublime
picture do we wish to listen to tales of the queer conduct of
its painter ? In many instances is not the inspiration which
gives birth to a grand work of art in itself a miracle, consider¬
ing the admixture of vulgar inclinations in the poet, the
actor, or musician ?
I have already described the stringent test arrangements
connected with the production of these casts of materialised
hands and feet, but the most unique result is the production
of the same identical limbs (with all the minute marks)
through another medium, and one absolutely ignorant of the
process employed on the first occasion of sitting. It was in
my room too, that Dr. Monck took his seat in the cabinet.
I had to take hold of the mould bootjack fashion whilst the
spirit foot slipped with a whizzing jerk out of it. In spite
of my gentle pressure, that part of the mould which touched
my palm, broke, and the mark may be easily traced where
the sculptor has mended the edge. This mishap is to be
regretted as it spoiled the otherwise great puzzle of a narrow
ankle in one piece, as indicating partial dematerialisation of
the spirit foot inside the mould.
On comparing the sole of the left foot obtained on this
occasion, with the left foot obtained in the presence of
another medium, the similarity between the marks on both
is most convincing that it is the same identical foot, or model,
the sceptic would say, if he overlooks the slight difference in
the arrangement of the toes, when seen from the back. If
the left hand obtained through Dr. Monck’s mediumship
shows not the fine definition of that given through Mrs.
Firman (the name of my medium on the other occasion, and
mother of Alfred Firman, of Paris), it is owing to the less
perfect gelatine moulding. I would here inquire whether the
paraffin loses delicacy in its power of reproducing form,
after it has been repeatedly heated and suddenly cooled.
A brief sweep over these casts with a magnifying glass,
will convince observers that they originate from the same—
what ? The same psychic ? The same solidified illusion ?
The same potted unconscious cerebration? or from some
similar structure of philosophical carpentering? No. In
this case they came from a something calling itself u Bertie,”
belonging to that tribe of celestial vagabonds of which the
true Katie King was so illustrious a specimen, I have
!| gradually got possession of her hands, feet (by casts) and
| locks of hair (cut off with scissors), and seen her face scores
1 of times, peeping out here and there, and sometimes she
| showed nearly half her figure. She has lately often waved
| the very same hand to us which we now recognise again
upon comparing the living original with the dead cast.
On the 7th instant Bertie appeared before us in full form.
The newly-arranged curtain divided off a considerable part of
the room, myself, with a friend on either side, being in front
of the folds. Whilst the breathing of the medium (about
two yards away in the corner) was quite audible, the curtain
opened, and Bertie, after a preliminary shy retreat, cautiously,
gently stepped forward, the curtains closing behind her. One
more step and she stood before me, and I recognised the long
I flowing locks, reaching to the knees, as of the same colour as
those cut off a year before. The hand now resting in mine
I was exactly the same in form as the cast; the cross and
locket were all plainly visible. With the glittering crown
and the long hair, and the white robes, the beautiful figure
| reminded me in some degree of Ophelia, although this im-
| pression was soon dispelled by her sweet and quiet move¬
ments appearing to be much influenced by the ever-changing
! current of power. After whispering a few words, she (I can-
| not say it) retired; the curtain was fully thrown open, and
| the medium was before us in full view together with the form)
\ a clear space being between them. The medium awoke, but
| the light being turned fully up too soon, he fell back
j heavily on the floor, and remained insensible a long time,
and on rising afterwards, thick drops of perspiration bedewed
I his brow. On the following night the figure came again,
| and after she drew the veil from her face, we saw the
I features, although not well defined; the arms seemed
| extremely thin and but little materialised. The tests were
completed by allowing us to examine the feet, where the
overlapping second toe and exactly the same bend of sole as
in the casts, completely satisfied us that we had here confir-
! mation of many fragmentary proofs given at intervals
I during several years. The beautiful white globe of light
with which she afterwards appeared in the dark, how she
I sank down to the floor, knocking the light on the carpet,
and other remarkable movements she made, I must pass
over, to concentrate the force of demonstration upon the
permanent proofs now for inspection in the reading-room at
i] Great Russell-street. And what enhances their value to me
[ ] individually, is the fact that I forget, in looking at them, all
[ I the terrible vexations and troubles which follow those who
i i venture to quit the domain of fashion and of social illusions
! i in search of new truths, and who fearlessly disregard the
[! angry looks of our present leaders in science. I look at
11 these strange things and think,—Let us forgive them, for
i they know not what they—twaddle.
| 2, Ducie Avenue, Manchester, June 10th, 1877.
P.S.—The following is the testimony of the sculptor (not
| a Spiritualist), who made the casts from the moulds supplied
i by me:—
rl o the Jiditor of “ The Spiritualist.”
■ I Sir,—At Mr. Reimers’ request I can only state, with my long ex-
Iperience, that in the casts that I moulded for him in gelatine, and sent
to the National Association of Spiritualists to preserve, the cavities or
under cuts could only be taken from the living or the dead ; that is, it
is certain they must have been taken from nature, as no artist could
| give the texture of nature such as these casts have, and I am sure that
any person of experience would be of the same opinion. I can only
state as within the bounds of my profession, that I know nothing of
the so-called Spiritualism, and that I am in duty bound to leave it to
| others to find out this so-called science. B. Lanata, Sculptor.
{ Lower King-street, Manchester, June 1877.
I Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address on Sunday next, June
24th, in the Templar Hall, Ladywood-road, Birmingham, service to
commence at 7 p.m. He will also hold a chamber lecture on Monday
evening. His other appointments are—Wolverhampton, June 26th,
27th, 28th, and 29th. Newcastle-on-Tyne, July 1st and 2nd. Man-
| Chester, July 8th and 9th. Belper, July 10th and 11th. Derby, July
I 12th and 13th. Liverpool, July 15th.
; Spiritualistic Meetings.—The last of the monthly soirees this
season of the National Association of Spiritualists has been given, and
| on Monday next the last fortnightly meeting of the season will be held
at 38, Great Russell-street, London, commencing at 7.30 p.m. Sub¬
ject—Adjourned discussion on “Trainingand Treatment of Mediums,”
by Mr. A. H. Louis, Signor Rondi, and other speakers. The weekly
free seances for inquirers will probably be continued regularly through-
1 out the year for the benefit of the public.
June 22, 1877.
295
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Correspondence.
[Great freedom is given tocor respondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this iownal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kept by the writers.]
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Sir,—The Liverpool Psychological Society is, just now, in a state of
transition that will result, we hope, in a better state of things for the
future. The Sunday lectures are being continued pretty much as
heretofore by Dr. 'W’m. Hitchmau and one or two others ; but the
society, as a body, has left Meyerbeer Hall, and has not yet settled
itself at new head-quarters. Some of our members hope to make it
practicable to discover and convert some suitable building into a
permanent institute.
Perhaps you will be good enough to insert this in your next issue,
for the information of all whom it may concern.
Samuel Pride,
Hon. Sec. Liverpool Psychological Society.
8, Grampian- road, Edge-lane, Liverpool.
SPECULATIONS. |?j
Sir,—Dr. Bloede’s speculations cover a very wide surface, and his n I
questions involve others, and these will lead to others still. I should j)l
be glad to talk over them with one who has devoted so much thought j( |
to the subject as Dr. Bloede has. To answer them at large in your j) i
columns is impossible. Nor can I command a reply from the Intelli- !
gence who communicated the original teaching, while I am so engrossed K i
with work as I now am. j) i
I may, however, briefly reply to your correspondent on my own I) I
authority. Taking his last query first, I reply at once that to speak ; K!
of the utterances of any spirit as “absolute revealed truth,” to m
be accepted (I suppose) under penalty, is to my mind absurd. It is j)!
almost as foreign to all claims made by “ Imperator ” to class what he jj j
says as “ dogmatical opinions.” Truth exists, no doubt, but whether Kj
we in our finite state now, can grasp any considerable portion of it is j)j
another question. Each must take what he can assimilate : and some |(!
can take more than others. All these Spirit Teachings must be studied n j
in their due connection: and Dr. Blcede will find this elaborated in a ’
previous teaching called Truth. \l\
The Easter Teaching refers to previous ones, and in them all Dr. 1 > j
B.’s questions are explicitly or implicitly answered. It has always |)|
been maintained that spirit has existence independent of matter : and
that not as “ dogmatical opinion,” but as fact which (from its very
nature) does not admit of mistake. It has equally been maintained that
spirit passes through phases of progression : one of which, and a very
important one, is incarnation. By that experience, as by others doubt¬
less, special knowledge is gained which is not otherwise to be obtained.
But “ requisite development,” i.e., proper growth antecedently is
necessary before the spirit is ripe for its education on earth.
Dr. Blcede cannot understand how a descent from spheres of bliss of
a pure spirit into the miserable experiences of earth can be useful to
one who has already won his requisite development. Nor can he
understand degrees of purity—how a pure spirit can become more puri¬
fied by what he thinks must be degradation. Then he does not know
of the mystery of “ suffering,” whereby many and many a struggling
soul has been “perfected,” as the apostle says of Jesus, “perfected
through suffering.” He has not grasped the necessity for conflict as a
training of spirit, nor learned that virgin innocence itself, with its
nascent, latent gifts, and powers, is developed, energised, and per¬
fected, by that very process which he would call degradation. There
is a type (not the same thing as “ an example,” by the way) in all this.
The same lesson is taught through all, varying in degree, but not in
kind, and that lesson was typified in the incarnation.
I do not venture on a discussion of the moot points which Dr. Blcede
incidentally deals with, as, eg., when he speaks of man as “evolved
from coarse matter, and not having the benefit of previous develop¬
ment.” Nor do I wish to do more than point out that in discussing
such questions as these each man probably starts from a different
stand-point, and that a large amount of antecedent definition and postu¬
late would be required before any profitable discussion could be had.
M. A. Oxon.
THE LAST DEBATE AT THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Sir,—Permit me to make a rectification respecting my speech at the
last meeting of the Psychological Society. Serjeant Cox explained that
he did not contemplate, when speaking of apparitions seen only by one
person, the cases where the reality of the vision was proved by informa¬
tion communicated by the ghost. I quoted many such cases, and I am
strictly within my right in so doing, for, in a very large proportion of
authenticated records of apparitions, the ghost has avowedly come for
the very purpose of communicating some fact which has been after¬
wards verified. To ignore this is to be guilty of the same unfairness as
that against which I protested in the case of Mr. Gordon, viz., to dwell
on the weak points of clairvoyance, and to ignore the very strong point
that a special vision of a very unlikely character was impressed on Mr.
Hyatt by a mesmeriser. We have a right to argue from the strong
cases to the weak ; to say in effect, “We cannot in every case that
the apparition was real, or the vision objective; but we can demonstrate
it in certain cases, and on the foundation there laid we proceed to raise
our superstructure. You are only concerning yourselves with knocking
off a few loose bricks at the top. You should go to the foundation.”
Again, some sentences of mine might lead to the idea that Mr.
Massey had used the MS. without sanction of the writer. I said that
the MS. would have been perhaps compressed, and more exactly revised
had it been written for publication. As a matter of fact, it was sent in
the first instance privately to Mr. Massey ; but, of course, he had the
author’s full permission to use it as he did.
Dr. Carter Blake objects to the loose phrase, “ Matter through matter.”
No doubt it is a bad expression, and might be mended; but I have a
fear of getting into metaphysical mist. “ Something of which we have
and can have no knowledge, passes through something of which we
have and can have no knowledge,” says Dr. Blake. Well, it depends
on the meaning attached to “ knowledge.” Practically I do know some¬
thing about my arm, and also about an iron ring. Each is what I call
solid, and I attach a definite meaning to the word. Never mind whether
I am right or wrong, qua metaphysics. The continuous ring is what
men agree to call solid, and men would agree at once to the proposition
that its being passed on to my arm, while my hand was grasped by
another hand, is an abnormal phenomenon—a something which two
men, A. and B., might grasp hands for a day, a week, a year, or an in¬
definite period, without obtaining. Well, I want to know what is the
change in that ring, or in my arm, or in both, which produces that
phenomenon ? People gather my meaning as to the effect when I speak
of the passage of Matter through Matter. Can metaphysicians amend
the phrase, and explain the process by which what we both mean is
effected ? No doubt we must “ have some common language by which
we can understand the thoughts of others; ” but does the metaphysician
furnish us with it ? To very many, the niceties of distinction he deals
with must seem to bear out the old sarcasm that language is given us to
conceal thought. At any rate his subtleties cannot be said to be
“ brought down to the level of the meanest comprehension” yet, what¬
ever they may be in the future. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A.
THE EXPENSE OP SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
Sir,—Why are works on Spiritualism got up in such an expensive
style ? There are many works on Spiritualism that I should like to
purchase, but cannot afford to. Why cannot many of them be published
in the railway novel style ? I, for one, would purchase many books I
have not at present, some for my own perusal, and some to give away to
friends, who, though not Spiritualists, are quite inclined to investigate
the subject. Were works on Spiritualism published in a cheaper style
I believe they would pay better; there are thousands of nibblers now
after Spiritualism, who, though they have not attended a seance, would
gladly read books on the subject if they could get them at moderate
prices. The present prices are prohibitory. An Indian Officer.
Burmah, May 16th.
[“ Small demand” means “high prices,” and as the movement increases in size, the
expense of books will fall. Prices of all kinds have been tried, but the present average
answers best for the time. American Spiritualists are much to blame for the expense of
books. Although American books on Spiritualism are imported somewhat freely into
England, no American firm imports English books on the same subject freely into the
United States; thus is the circulation of the works unnecessarily restricted. If some
established publishing firm in America would freely import English books, it would
greatly forward the public interests of Spiritualism, and prove benefleial to Spiritualists
everywhere— Ed.]
RUSSIA V. TURKEY.
Sir,—I notice in a letter in The Spiritualist of the 8th inst., headed
“ A Clairvoyant Seance in Brighton,” a foreshadowing of the results of
the present war in the East; as I have had manifestations apparently
pointing in this direction, I beg space for the following.
As has previously been mentioned in your valuable paper, in November,
1875, I had a very severe attack of inflammation of both lungs and
rheumatic fever, my recovery was ultimately despaired of by two
eminent medical men, and finally I was restored to perfect health
through the mediumship of my sister. During this period I was
reduced to a very weak state indeed, and had to be fed like a child.
Whilst in this extremely low condition I had a series of visions, or
psychological manifestations of some sort, which, by their apparently
foretelling events shortly to take place in this world and the orderly and
) I consecutive nature of the communications, struck me with astonishment,
j j for neither previously nor since, have I experienced the like. I will
) I refrain from going into all the details, but speak only of such as appear
|) I to bear on the above heading.
After sundry communications a voice most distinctly uttered these
i) j words close to my ear—“ Russia shall he rolled back on herself." I
j) j did not see the speaker, but immediately those words were spoken a
|(J plan of Europe appeared before me; the plan seemed to me to be a
\{ \ block-plan, with raised, moveable, wooden partitions standing about
|) | one-quarter of an inch above the face of the plan; these partitions acted
k ! as the boundary line between the different countries. A hand came
|) i and moved one of these partitions, and it went into its new place with a
I) | snap as if it fitted tightly, the sound of the snap being distinctly heard
iji by me. The idea which I gathered from it was that the frontier line
| j | was moved so that a piece of territory was taken from one country and
|) | added on to another, but which were the two countries represented I am
j) j not aware, further than that the locality appeared to be somewhere in
i) I the direction of south-eastern Europe.
Now, Mr. Editor, though this is rather vague as to how, or by whom,
jvj Russia is to be rolled back, as to the particular territory which is to
iji change hands, or as to the time of its occurrence, still it is very
in interesting to me, knowing, as I do, that I was not aware at that
Ki time (Nov., 1875), if-indeed any one was, that an insurrection would
I) | shortly break out in Turkey, and ultimately result in war between her
j( | and Russia. Nor, indeed, do I know now even that the vision referred
j to is the present struggle, but it has induced me to watch the various
j) i moves in the great drama now being enacted in the East with an
if j interest that would otherwise have been lacking. The apparent
j) i partial similarity existing beween my experience and that in the letter
|) | alluded to, the writers of which are unknown to me, combined with the
j) | fact that it contravenes the generally received opinion as to the issue,
K j which opinion I share, induces me to break the reserve I have hitherto
i(i maintained, thinking that it might be interesting to some. Not being
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 22, 1877.
296
given to prophecy, I do not take delight therein; on the contrary, I was j !
known amongst my friends as a very practical sort of fellow till I became | (i
a Spiritualist. j(i
If the above comes true, I shall, as you may imagine, be highly inter- m
ested. On the other hand, if it turns out to be false, I shall be equally j | j
surprised and eager to find out the source of the untruthful message, i j
respecting which my conscience will acquit me of any share, for that it j | j
came to me from an exterior intelligence I was perfectly conscious at the | j |
time. Meanwhile I wait patiently the result. H. A. Kersey.
Newcastle-on-Tyne, Jane 12th, 1877.
INFALLIBLE BOOKS AND INDIVIDUALS. |/j
Sir,—Your correspondent “ F.C.P. ” asks me through your columns j|i,
why “if it is the special mission or result of Spiritualism to throw a m
light on the foundations of religious belief” this has not been done by j(i
the communications of Swedenborg from the spirit-world, which attested j |!
the infallibility of the Bible, and gave mankind its spiritual sense, jj
showing its relation to the whole world, and (2) why, if Swedenborg’s j (j
revelations confirm the infallibility of the Bible, while some modern j I;
revelations deny it, I do not upon “ a comparison of authorities” give )!
the preference to the “double evidence,” i.e.^ the sacred writers’and U
Swedenborg’s, rather than to any other.
My answer to the first question is this—I think that Swedenborg’s j (;
revelations do throw a marvellous light on “ foundations,” for they help j (j
us to understand both the origin and the meaning of former revelations, j j j
In regard to the second point I do not deny the truth of divine “ word,” |)j
but the infallibility of the human recipient, scribe, and commentator. | (|
To say that a book is infallible means nothing. The very language jj
it is written in disproves it, for language is a clumsy human invention j/j
which as often conceals as reveals idea and thought. If, for instance, I | j |
claimed infallibility for my ideas upon the “ foundations of religion,”
which, perhaps, I might with as much justice as Swedenborg, for they
appear to me absolutely true, and if, further, the majority of Spiritualists |(|
agree with me (which they would not) and my claims were even uni- | J |
versally admitted, of what use would my infallible ideas be to your cor- i |!
respondent since the words I clothed them in have failed to convey j (i
their meaning.
It appears to me, then, that no message through another can be in- j j
fallible, but only the direct divine inspiration or instinct of right in our i :
own inner consciousness.
In conclusion, I see “ F.C.P.” has unintentionally misquoted me, and Sij
I wish to set myself right before some of your readers, who may not i (i
have read my article. I did not say the “ Bible ” should be relegated to j|l
the place of fables and myths, but only the idea of its “ infallibility ” in i n
the sense I have explained. Gr. F. Green. ju
Plumstead.  
MR. COLVILLE’S MEDICMSHIP.
Sir,—Between choosing the subject and delivery of the discourse in m
the trance state, only the few seconds elapsed required for the rising of j (j
the medium, Mr. Colville, from his chair. This was followed by an |([
uninterrupted flow of most interesting and sometimes truly sublime ijj
reflections on spiritual dispensations, from those of ancient times down j(j
to present phase. He kept us all spell-bound. The allusions to the m
different degrees of phenomena, sent to wake materialists out of their jji
stupor, “according to the state of development of their receptive ;()
powers,” were strikingly suggestive, and gave every form of manifesta- j jj
tion—even those which at first glance are the most repulsive—a place j r j
of equal importance, relatively, to the highest results. Of the con- j (j
eluding poem (also chosen by the audience) on “ Love,” I can only say, j j j
with the deepest regret, that its beautiful, touching, and Godlike j j |
strains kept me in constant pain because it was not preserved on paper, i (i
The impression of an immense distance between the medium’s inspira- i j j
tional and normal states seemed to strike all of us. His few gesticula- j j j
tions seemed as if produced automatically at the highest points of (j
expression, not unlike the movements of marionettes animated by ijl
distant hands and intelligences. If any medium convinces listeners of j j i
a power outside his own, it is this gifted young man, Mr. Colville, i (I
otherwise it would seem the greatest piece of foolery on his part to j j i
waste great oratorical genius at occasional friendly meetings.
C. Beimers.
Manchester, June 17, 1877. !) I
remarkable spiritual manifestations at home. j)j
Sir,—A few months ago, at the time of the prosecution of Drs. Slade i( j
and Monck, I was rather puzzled at the notion that men of intelligence | j j
and education, also of gentle birth, could so lower themselves in the j j j
eyes of mankind as to try and make a living by the degrading trade of j( j
personating the spirits of the departed. I was so much stricken with j j i
the horrible nature of such an idea that, before condemning my fellow- j j i
man, I determined to investigate the matter for myself in the bosom of j( j
my own family. Having attended, from curiosity and otherwise, seances i j i
before, and also being inquisitively minded, I asked myself, if spirits iji
could communicate with Dr. Slade and others, why not with me? I itj
therefore resolved to sit one evening every week.
As a recapitulation of what took place at each sitting would be too much j j |
for one or a dozen letters, I will simply relate in order what occurred at in
two. The first, Sunday, Feb. 11, 8 p.m., sitters, myself, wife, son j i
(eight years old), and daughter (ten years old), all sitting in full light, jj j
After a few table movements, a communication came from the controlling i (j
power, to the effect that said power or force was my father. I accord- j j |
ingly proceeded to test said force by asking mental questions as to : j j
identity. My questions being correctly answered, I asked the intelli- in
gence if it could give any physical proof of its being a power acting out- jjj
side the sitters, other than it had already done? Answer—“Yes.” jjj
Question—“ Shall we sing?” Answer—“No.” Nevertheless, the i(i
little boy commenced singing one of Sankey’s hymns—“ Hold the fort.” ‘ ‘
At this time, and during the whole sitting, the palms of the sitters’ hands
were lying flat on the table. When the boy uttered the words, “ Wave the
answer back to heaven,” a handkerchief which was in the little girl’s bosom
was raised up gracefully to the ceiling, there kept waving, keeping time to
the singing, and, when the verse was ended, as gracefully descended to
the floor. After a few moments more questioning and answering, I
happened to remark, “It is time the children went to bed.” Presently
the little girl whose boots were off her feet, which were resting on the
rungs of her chair, while her hands were on the table, exclaimed, “ Oh,
father, he is untying my garters! he is pulling off my stockings ! ” I
said, “ N'onsense.” She answered, “ I declare he is, and I believe he is
tying my feet together; get the lamp and see! ” I according held the
lamp under the table, and there sure enough her right stocking was
pulled down as far as her ankle, and both her feet were firmly tied
together. We were rather alarmed, as her legs were very cold and rigid.
I asked my wife to untie her. She answered, “ No. If your father
tied them, let him untie them ; it will be a good test.” I then replaced
the lamp on the table, and in a few moments both stockings were thrown
into the centre of the floor. Ten o’clock having struck, we bade our in¬
visibles good night, and they having responded, we closed our third
sitting.
About three weeks afterwards I and my wife visited a private circle;
Mr. Lawrence was among the sitters, and my wife and self not having
much faith at the time in Mr. Lawrence, we watched him narrowly.
Some raps came on the table. Questions being put, the controlling
power, who gave the rather pleasing name of “ Sunshine,” expressed a
wish to communicate with my wife, but we being rather sceptical, asked
Sunshine would she visit our own family circle. Answer—“ Yes.” On
the following Friday, at eight p.m., we ((including wife, son, daughter,
and myself) sat. After a quarter of an hour’s sitting a cold wind passed
through the parlour, causing us to feel icy cold ; so cold was it
that twice I had to go to the fire and warm myself. Then a
gentle warmth commenced, and suddenly a shower of raps
descended on the centre of the table, as if made with the
knuckles of a fist, and then I believe we all thought for the
first time of the promise made, as our thoughts were previously on the
handkerchief affair. I asked the controlling power to give its name,
and it distinctly spelt out “ Sunshine.” I called the alphabet, and at
every letter composing the name that I came to, there was a distant rap
in the centre of the table as if from the knuckles of a closed fist. The
palms of all our hands were resting flat on the table, and in fall light.
After a good deal more rapping and questioning we closed our seance at
10 p.m.
It was to me one of the most pleasant, instructive, and profitable
evenings that I ever spent. I have simply penned what took place
as a lover of truth. I have selected two only out of the many weekly
seances I have held in my own house in full light, with my own family,
who to my knowledge have not been educated to conjuring, and as far as
I am concerned I care nothing as to the truth or untruth of Spirit¬
ualism or any other ism. During these sittings I have had some remark¬
able manifestations which time and space will not allow me to transmit
to you, but to me the most remarkable fact is that for the last two months
the character of the phenomena has entirely changed. I no longer get
any physical ones; they are now varied; sometimes one thing; then
another. This proves to me that our own minds have no control over
the phenomena. If you think the above worth publisliing in order that
it may induce others to investigate the matter, as I have done, in their
own families, and in the full light of day, do so, as I am not ashamed of
the truth, no matter in what form it is represented. Jas. Cain.
142, Burdett-road, Bow, London, E., June 16th, 1877.
paraffin moulds of spirit faces.
Sir,—Five different spirits have now promised to give us these
precious moulds, so as to include the whole head, neck, and shoulders.
They, as well as we, are waiting for the return of Firman from England
to set about it. It must take some .time to get through with all this,
especially as we shall want more than one mould of each, and it can
only be on days of favourable weather and other conditions that it can
be done. It costs them a considerable effort, and takes much of what
they call “ the power.” It remains to be seen whether all will be
equally successful. In their ordinary materialisations they do not
appear all to have the same amount of strength. At the same stance,
for instance, one or two will be more fully formed than others, will come
unveiled when others cannot, stay longer, and advance further forward
beyond the curtain of the cabinet. John King seems to have to do a
large part of the work for them of helping or enabling them to form—
with the aid of his strong fluidic force. It is reasonable to apprehend
that we may find similar inequalities in degree of success in taking the
moulds. An upright tinned iron cylinder, resting on a furnace, and two
feet in depth by eighteen inches in diameter, is all ready, according to
John King’s directions, with 150 lbs. of paraifin. Pretty formidable
preparation, which will, however, be amply repaid if the operations prove
as successful as we hope.
The two casts, in alabaster, resulting from the two face moulds which
I have already told you of, are exquisitely beautiful. The one reaches
only to the middle of the cheek, the other includes the ears. The fore¬
head is surmounted with hair in wavy curls, and it is a marvel how
such hair got ever detached in an instant from the melted paraffin.
Human hair could never have done so. The eyes are open and without
lashes, as in sculpture. We were talking the other day after the spirit
had been writing, and, knowing her to be still present, we asked her
about it. The next day she wrote—“ You asked me yesterday how it
was that my eyebrows were missing in my mould. It was because I
wanted to appear just like a marble statue. But if you wish it, in
the next one I take, I will try to make them. It is very difficult for
us sometimes; but you know you often see us without them when we
are not well formed.”
June 22, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
On the 14th she wrote—“ We are all here waiting for the medium, i j i
John is very busy, doing all kinds of things to please you with his light.” i) j
John has, in fact, promised to show us some phenomena with it which, ](!
if realised (as experience gives me confidence they will be), will indeed jjj
be splendid to behold. I will not mention them in anticipation, but it
is not without interest, as a fact, to mention the promises made before* ;(j
hand by him of his making experiments, and now this intimation of what m
he intends to do; practising, as it were. At our last seance (May 28) at j|
which he took leave of us for ten days, saying that on his return we | (
would go on with the face and head moulds, with the proper appliances, i j i
I reminded him of “ the Cross of Constantine.''* “ I never forget f was jj
all his reply.
It seems to give a little glimpse into the life on the other side that |H
Nathalie, on taking leave of us the other day (by writing through Mr. it
Firman’s hand), said: “ We are now going to take a short trip with m
John, who is so good and useful to us. It is to help some poor spirits who j)
are working for advancement, and who want help very badly.'" The next \l\
day she wrote that they had returned from their “trip.” The one j
whose moulds we have, the casts from which had been finished and sent i)j
home by the plasterer, expressed the hope that we and the Countess ijj
“found the likeness good,” which we all certainly had.
I do not see why you should not undertake this operation in England in
too, with every prospect of similar success, at least through Williams, m
on whom John King is a faithful attendant. In that event, remember m
not to do as we did the first time (after the example of the hand- i)j
moulding operations we had read of), namely, to put only a moderate j(i
stratum of parafiin over a body of hot water. John told us to suppress m
the hot water next time, and make the whole body of the liquid to jjj
consist of the melted parafiin alone, because, he said, particles of the jj!
water would mix with the parafiin and cause defects in the mould. I j|:
should be glad to have it witnessed by others besides ourselves overbore, j (j
J. L. O’Sullivan. Ij
Paris, Jane 17th.
P.S. An Erratum.—As most of your readers no doubt preserve the jj
numbers of your invaluable paper (in which is getting gradually accu- in
initiated a vast body of precious material for future elaboration by the m
students of the philosophy and religion of Spiritualism), I beg them to jjj
recur to your number for June 1 st, page 202, line 42, and to pass the jjj
pen through the superfluous and non-syntactical words (having ij
their origin, no doubt, in my bad manuscript), “ See the faith which jj!
will" The sense will then become intelligible and substantially correct, jjj
A more exactly correct translation of the entire sentence (out of French) jjj
would have been thus:—“ Then will that nucleus of zealous souls which jjj
are in the path of the truth, have experienced the increase in themselves of jj I
the growth of that faith which will undergo a daily development, and jj
which will give to all of them those germs of the truth which Christ has jjj
sown upon the earth” J. L. O’S.
DR. SLADE'S OFFER.
Sir,—I see that the “ free ” press of London has refused to publish j
Dr. Slade’s proposal to Professor Lankester.
I feel it to be very desirable that the public should know all about
this matter. I would suggest, therefore, that Dr. Slade’s proposal, and jj
along with it the fact that the London press refused it publicity, be j)
published in the form of a large poster, with an attractive heading in j j
‘‘script type”—such, for instance, as “Dr. Slade and Professor
Lankester.”
Let several thousands of these be printed, and posted up at the
principal stations, not only in London, but in every place in this country j j
where Spiritualists may be found with suificient love for the truth to [
spend a few shillings on this object. I think this would accomplish ij
our object. Hermann Freund.
2, Silver-street, Stockton-on-Tees, June 18th, 1877.
PHYSICS AND METAPHYSICS.
Sir,—Mr. 0. C. Massey seems inclined to drag us back from culti- ijj
vated lands into the wilderness again, that is to say, into endless and
hopeless metaphysical speculations, on which the best and most acute jjj
minds have been engaged, but all ending in mere conflicting utterances.
The advance of knowledge has been entirely derived from the pursuit of jjj
the physical sciences; and whether you call the substance or cause, jjj
matter or spirit, signifies nothing. You will never make ships and j(;
houses out of thought, nor guns and gunpowder out of ideas. Properly jj j
speaking, there is no such tiling as metaphysics, since mind itself is but jjj
the function of a physical or spiritual body. It is true that Mr. Lewes jjj
retains the term for general laws, or abstract ideas, but the laws of
nature are not metaphysical, as Plato supposed, but are determined by j j
matter, as Bacon affirmed. On this matter Dr. Carpenter has lately
taken me to task, in the idea that I had meant something different.
Idealism, logically carried out, either isolates the individual mind, or
lands you in scepticism and negation; but Mr. Massey has, it seems,
brought himself to conceive that “ the identity of being and nothing ” is
a profound and conceivable idea. We have nothing to do with what
things “ are in themselves,” but what they show themselves to be, the
nature of a thing being seen in what it does, and as it acts and is acted j|
upon in the order and sequence observed. Without the objective there jj
could be no subjective, for the one world is the impression and reflection jjj
from the other, for there is no perception or thought but, directly or j
indirectly, has an objective relation.
I think we shall all admit that, next to Goethe, Humboldt was the jjj
most profound tlnnker among the men of science we have had in modern jjj
times, and Humboldt says:—“ Contrary to the wishes and counsels of jj j
those profound and powerful thinkers, who have given new life to specu- jj j
lations which were already familiar to the ancients, systems of natural jj
philosophy have in our country for some time past turned aside the
minds of men from the graver study of mathematical and physical
sciences. The abuse of better powers, which has led many of our noble
but ill-judging youth into the saturnalia of a purely ideal science of
nature, has been signalised by the intoxication of pretended conquests,
by a novel and fantastically symbolical phraseology, and by a predi¬
lection for the formulae of a scholastic rationalism, more contracted in
its views than any known to the middle ages. I use the expression
“abuse of better powers,” because superior intellects, devoted to philo¬
sophical pursuits and experimental science, have remained strangers to
these saturnalia. The results, yielded by an earnest investigation in
the path of experiment, cannot be at variance with a true philosophy of
nature.”—Cosmos, End of Introduction.
Newton very properly admonished us in these words:—“ Physics,
beware of metaphysics.” Mr. Lewes says that anyhow our perceptions
are not pictures (visual); but that is precisely what they are, since we
paint what is perceived. The question is how far the perception and
picture resemble nature, which brings us to the question of the illusions
of the senses, the correction of such illusions, and their reason and
practical value. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur- Mer.
“ LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE.”
Sir,—I send you a short notice of “ Life Beyond the Grave.” It is
an interesting account of spiritual existence on what the communicating
spirit designates “ the earth plane.” It begins by describing the ap¬
pearance we present to spirits. Our physical bodies, together with our
material surroundings, of houses, furniture, &c., to them appear shadowy
and transparent, while the spiritual counterparts of our tables and
chairs, and of our so-called solid bodies are to them real and tangible.
According to this disembodied author the spiritual counterparts of our
clothes and household belongings follow us into the next world. “ Your
towns are full of men and women who have parted with their material
bodies, and still live on in the old way, scarcely knowing whether they
are alive or dead, for they see everything going on as before; they jostle
against their friends in the streets, and they see no difference in them,
excepting that those who are still in the body, seem like deaf, dumb,
and blind people who pass by, and take no notice of them.”
When Ira Davenport was staying with me, I used to have daily con¬
versation with a female voice. Upon my asking this invisible young
woman when she left the earth, she replied, “ I haven’t left it; ” that
answer at the time surprised me, now I understand what she meant.
It appears that this close connection with earth is not a desirable kind
of spiritual existence, but the way most of us pass our lives in the flesh
is such, that upon dying we are not fit for a promotion to a higher
sphere. Men create their own future surroundings by their thoughts and
modes of life here. Whatever most occupies us here influences our
actual surroundings in the spirit-world, but what are congenial pursuits
now cease to be so hereafter because they occupy us to the exclusion of
all else. One gets too much of them. This little book explains this,
and shows how suppression of self and the cultivation of spiritual
qualities, with a life of active benevolence as a necessary consequence,
lead to a superior state of existence. There is much useful information
in the book, but there are also some assertions so extraordinary and
novel that they demand corroboration; such, for instance, as that a
ship which has been burnt at sea and all hands drowned, leaves her
spiritual counterpart with her disembodied crew to go sailing along for
any length of time without being able to make a port, as she cannot ap¬
proach the land owing to the strong “ magnetic ” currents that sweep
round the shores of the spiritual counterpart of the ocean, thus prevent¬
ing all navigation. This is more difficult to believe than what is said
about man’s double nature, namely, that during the sleep of the body
the spirit is at liberty to wander in the spirit-world, where it has a set
of friends and objects of interest distinct from those it is occupied with
when the body is awake, and that the temporarily freed spirit is often
much more amusing and intelligent than when obliged to manifest
through the flesh.
It is satisfactory for those of a philanthropic disposition, not blessed
with the good things of this world, to learn that as much good can be
done by a man who leads a pure life among the impure, as by one who
gives thousands of pounds away in charity. Such a person does good
in a way he is not aware of, for besides the evident effect of setting a
good example, he is associated with spirit friends, whose healthy influ¬
ence affects beneficially the spirit friends of the bad men among his
associates, who are always of the same calibre as their colleague in the
flesh.
Cremation is recommended as a good way of disposing of the body;
it also helps the spirit to get free. The state of affairs in England is
alluded to, and the view taken of things is not encouraging; “ there is a
great lack of patriotism among those in power, who are blinded by self-
interest.” The Plimsoll incident, it appears, created much sensation
in the spirit world. Spirits, who feel so inclined, attend the House of
Commons, and make themselves acquainted with what goes on there.
The worse than uselessness of religious teaching is referred to, such for
instance as the doctrine that departing souls are carried away “ to sleep
in Jesus,” until the final resurrection of the dead, the fact being that
persons from earth entering the spirit world find themselves welcomed
by old friends, who take them by the hand, and begin to explain what
has happened to them. Gradually their whole past life becomes revealed
like a panorama, and all that is bad is a constant source of self-reproach
and consequent unhappiness, while that which is good affords pleasure.
The philosophy of prayer is explained as an advertisement of one’s
wants in the spirit world. Muller’s famous establishment, kept up
entirely by voluntary contributions, is adduced as a remarkable instance
of the success of his persistent and earnest faith in this direction. His
supplications for assistance attracting the attention of benevolent spirits,
they proceed to influence mortals to supply material aid. There is much
298
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 22, 1877,
practical information on many subjects in this book. Perhaps I have m
said enough to induce some to read it. j j j
The communicating spirit tells us that there are many things that he m
has learnt during a residence of fifty years in the spirit world, which he j j
thinks our world is not yet ready to receive. He, however, offers to j | i
answer questions that any one may like to send to his medium. Taking j jj
advantage of that offer, I have asked him about reincarnation, thinking ! (|
that, perhaps, that was one of the subjects which he deems we are not j|j
ready to accept. The other question was—“What, in his opinion, was j)j
the position of Christ to humanity?” If you can find space to publish j (j
the answers, I think they will be read with interest. Reincarnation is j) j
as great a necessity of human existence as the growth of man from ||f
infancy to manhood. Bodies are but the vehicles of expression of spirit, I (j
and the number of these external shells cannot alter or interfere with j > j
the individuality obtained by the soul in its progress towards the divine, in
The savage is but the embodiment of a spirit not yet advanced beyond | (j
an infantile spiritual state, its last condition having perhaps expressed j | i
itself in the body of an animal, from which state many embodiments | (j
on the natural plane will be necessary before it can become a being j (i
of high intellectual and spiritual development. This truth, however, can j) j
only be received by spirits of high mental development, or others not so i (j
high who may be of a teachable nature. Consequently, many spirits deny j j
reincarnation when consulted by men on earth. This truth is at the !)l
present time being broadly promulgated and explained in the spirit in
world, and new revelations also are being made in that world as j j
regards man’s origin, progress, and destiny; revelations which can j / i
descend to but few minds on earth as yet. There are also many errors j (1
in regard to that doctrine amongst men on earth, and among the more or i jj
less ignorant spirits who have received a surface knowledge only, and j) ]
who teach from that ground. Much has still to descend from the j(|
glorious God-like minds who have gathered up into their present state j j I
of truly divine beauty the spiritual fruits of their many repeated in- j j
carnations or periods of combat and struggles through matter. The j j
doctrine of vicarious atonement is a misconception on the part of men of j >
the work of Jesus on the earth. But our Lord did set in operation by Hi
His life, sufferings, and death an engine for man’s deliverance from sin, \(\
and the power of sin over him. The subject is much too large for treat- j j
ment here, but if man will have recourse to this means of deliverance, j j
he will lift himself all the sooner from the enslavement of sin. It is by ! j
the power of the spirit of Jesus this is effected; man’s faith in that j/j
power will cause him to seek it; and if he seeks it, it will most certainly u j
be granted in such proportion and efficacy as he may be able to receive, j j I
Spirit is indestructible, everlasting, and eternal in its operation. Our j j j
Lord’s spirit, or more properly our Lord Himself, can never cease to jw
operate on earth for the good of mankind, for He is the glad, glorious, i j i
central angel of a universe of planets, and love, power, light, and heat jjj
radiate from His being’s inexhaustible and infinite capacities as from a j (j
sun. J. H. Gledstanes. j j j
Merignac, Gironde, France. iji
DR, CARPENTER SUMMED UP. I) |
Sir,—I append the sum and substance of the argument in Dr. Car- j j j
penter’s two lectures on Mesmerism and Spiritualism, &c.:— fij
There have been many epidemic delusions : ju
Some Spiritualists neither observe accurately nor reason correctly: j jj
Therefore, all Spiritualism is baseless : j/J
Therefore, Spiritualism is another epidemic delusion. Q. E. D.
THE WITCHES OP RENFREW. iji
Sir,—Those who are interested in the case of the Renfrewshire j(j
witches will find important information about them in the following H
works :— j p
Sadducismus Debellatus, London, 1698, 4to. ju
Sinclair’s Satan's Invisible World Discovered, 1764, or any of the jjj
later editions.
Leqends and Miracles, by the Rev. J, E. Smith (page 9), London, Kj
1837,8vo. W. Whitear. jjj
Hornsey, — j (i
SWEDENBORGIANISM V. SPIRITUALISM. - Wj
Sir,—M[r. Joy avoids arguing out the issue he raised in yours of the j jj
25th ult. as to whether £c the Scriptures do condemn open intercourse Hi
with spirits as injurious to man’s progress in regeneration,” but sub- i(j
stantially reasserts that if they do, so much the worse for them. An ijj
inexpedient assertion, whether true or false, seeing there are many— Hi
like reeds shaken with the wind—who are waiting for rational in- ijj
struction. Therefore, for the sake of these, I beg you to admit this jjj
attempt at elucidation. ' j/j
The end to be attained is our own regeneration, thus that of the j j j
human race. jjj
A means eminently conducive to this end is found in open inter- m
course with spirits (Mr. Joy). jjj
Open intercourse with spirits is injurious to man’s progress in re- jjj
generation, and, as such, is condemned by Scripture (Rev. J. H. jo
Smithson). ' jji
What, then, is regeneration ? jjj
One whom all would do well to acknowledge Lord and Master, and ju
who is the greatest of all Spiritualists defined it as the birth of the jjj
spiritual man ; i.e., of the natural man out of the law of nature, which jjj
holds to self-preservation as its primate into the law of the spirit, under j(j
which self-preservation flows from loving the neighbour, and self- jjj
destruction from loving the self. ijj
Does, then, open intercourse with spirits “conduce eminently” to jji
progress in this fraternal life ? jji
That depends upon the character of the spirits with whom we have 7 jji
intercourse, and these are similar to the quality of our own interior ‘ [(l
life, which again is the product of their life received by us and made
our own.
In this light the question can be answered by every one who is honest
enough to himself to set before his own eyes his own interior character.
If the spirit within urges him to a daily life of self-sacrifice, a life of
burden-bearing for others, then open intercourse with spirits will
confirm, strengthen, and extend the. uses of his life. Contrariwise,
open intercourse will the more rapidly help him to destroy the remains
of good within him and render regeneration impossible, because not
desired.
These are the teachings of the Scriptures, as I read them, and also of
the Spiritualism which is from above. C. W. Pearce.
7, Acre-lane, London, S.W., June 12, 1877.
VEGETARIANISM.
Sir,—Having had rather a long share of experience, both relative
and personal, in what is called vegetarianism, I trust you will not
consider me intrusive if I give to your readers a few details on the
subject. I am now in my eighty-eighth year. I have been for more
than forty years an abstainer from all flesh food, and nearly as long a
time from all alcoholic beverages. Although the middle member of a
family of fifteen children, I have survived all my flesh-eating brothers
and sisters by many years. My change of diet from animal food to
vegetarianism was made at once, and I remember no instance of ill
eftects from the sudden experiment. I was told casually by a friend
that to live on a vegetable diet was possible, and that it was a facili¬
tating condition for attaining a pure and holy life, which was my great
desire, and I at once promised to try for a fortnight to do without flesh.
This fortnight has proved a long one ; it has lengthened to forty-three
years of fasting from butcher’s meat; instead of my health having
suffered by the experiment, it has materially benefited thereby. Many
of my friends have made the same trial with the result of an
increase of health of body and serenity of mind. Eor twelve years I
was connected with a school for vegetarians exclusively, and I know of
no instance in which a sudden and complete change from a mixed diet
to a farinaceous one has been injurious. Morally and spiritually, as
well as physically, I find vegetarianism to be a decided advance upon
the old barbarous diet which necessitates the slaughter of innocent
animals in untold thousands yearly, and condemns a number of human
beings to a low and degrading life, finding its support by the constant
shedding of blood, and the cruelties antecedent to and connected with
such deeds. As a Spiritualist, I can say that he or she who would
converse with the higher spirits must prepare the body by pure and
simple food, so as to be a fit companion and envelope to the pure and
holy soul, with which alone such higher spirits can communicate. This
pure and simple food exists in abundance in fruits and grains and
vegetable products, and is helpful to man’s higher nature as well as to
his physical health. William Oldham.
Ditton Hill, Surbiton, Surrey.
Sir,—Kindly allow me space for a few words of my experience of
Yegetarianism. After hearing a course of lectures on the subject, I
determined to give it a trial. I had up to that time enjoyed very good
health. I immediately experienced a lightness and clearness of though,
which delighted me, and was quite satisfied with the change—whent
lo ! after about six weeks’ trial, I was attacked by a severe pain in my
chest. It was almost unbearable. General weakness and debility set
in ; I lost thirty-four lbs. in weight, and felt too weak to walk up an
ordinary hill. The pain turned out to be indigestion, a thing pre¬
viously utterly unknown to me, but from that time to this I have never
entirely lost it, and my health has never been what it was previous to
the trial, so it is almost needless to say I soon gave Yegetarianism up.
My advice to all is, “ If you already enjoy good health (what more do
you desire ?) do not tamper with it by trying Vegetarianism.”
J. F. Young.
Llanelly, South Wales, June 10, 1877.
Sir,—As one who has been carefully watching the general tendency
of the letters in your pages upon the subject of Yegetarianism, allow me
to say that those who have given their experience against the eating of
animal flesh have had altogether the best of it. Those who have
spoken in favour of flesh-eating have not only been comparatively few,
but have altogether withheld their names and addresses, so that no one
of their assertions can be verified by independent observers. Those
who have given their experiences of Vegetarianism have, on the other
hand, been many, and have honestly appended their names and
addresses to their statements.
But those who have spoken in favour of Yegetarianism may have been
hereditarily or otherwise predisposed thereunto, consequently the
imitation of their example by the majority of your readers might
subject the latter to attacks of illness.
At all events, this comes out clearly from the evidence collected—
namely, that the placing of more vegetables, puddings, and so on upon
our tables in place of flesh food is far better than action in the opposite
direction, and is a step in favour of the promotion of the ascendancy
of the race.
As regards teeth, the statement of Dr. Carter Blake that a propor¬
tion of flesh food is given by men to the monkeys in the Zoological
Gardens, proves nothing as to the habits of monkeys in a state of nature.
And until it is proved, with the names and addresses of responsible
witnesses appended, that wild monkeys when not in a state of starva¬
tion habitually eat flesh, it is reasonable to assume that the natural
food of the monkey consists of fruits and vegetables. If I give a dog
bread, it does not prove that either wild dogs or wolves in a state of
nature eat bread.
June 22, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
299
la the ease of those who suffer from, the habits of their forefathers,
and labour from the effects of hereditary predisposition so that they
cannot live on vegetable diet if they wish, restaurants fitted up, as one
of your correspondents suggests, for vegetarians, would be use1 ess.
Rather would such require to dine at places at which one-fourth the usual
quantity of meat could be obtained to order, whenever they do not dine
at home.
The question of hereditary influences enters largely into this matter,
and I would that as the one subject closes in your pages, the other and
the greater one would open. Everywhere we see children suffering for
the sins of their parents, and the moral evils thus descending upon the
helpless are greater than the physical. Take, for instance, the case of
the nouveaux richesses, who after the slavery of a lifetime retire to their
suburban villa or country seat, to learn the sad lesson that plutocratic
influences are no passport to truly refined society, and that their
position is one of more misery than when industriously at work at trade.
They then try to force their poor children into an atmosphere which
they cannot enter themselves; they drive them to the market of the
world as cattle are driven to the New Cattle Market, and by means of
purely business marriages with the shady scions of the aristocracy, who are
ashamed of their new relatives, add to the already overflowing category
of sad homes and broken hearts, resulting in a progeny subject to
mental and bodily diseases. It is the fashion now to sacrifice the
affections, and my theory is that most of the diseases and unbalanced
minds and tempers displayed in children, are the result of the sin.
The grasping, well-intentioned parents are responsible for this; they are
of the earth, earthy, and I pray, as a reformer prays over other
sinners, that they may be made divinely unhappy, may be plagued
with bad dreams, and may be led as erring children to obey their
Father’s will, before inflicting preventable results of their sins not only
upon their own children, but upon the third and fourth generation.
Perhaps you and your contributors would like to turn upon the earth-
bound materialistic parents of the period the hose of moral and intel¬
lectual truth ; they will be all the better for the shower-bath, and they
want it badly. The happiness of many human beings may be promoted
by this line of action, just as the lives of some thousands of animals
will probably be saved within the next twelve months by the recent
controversy on Vegetarianism, which will cause most of your readers
to eat less animal flesh, though few of them will turn from it
altogether. R. W. W.
Bath.  
Sir,—One more word, if you please, on the question of the teeth of
mammalia. Mr. Hartley speaks of the “ fanglike teeth peculiar to
beasts of prey.” As I presume by this is meant the “ canines,” or
dents carnassiers of Cuvier, the fangs of teeth being always concealed
in the alveoli, let me point out a few exceptions to this rule. The
musk-deer is a vegetable-feeding ruminant, which chews the cud: the
canine teeth are enormous. The camels and llamas are vegetable-feeding
ruminants, which chew the cud: the canines are fairly developed,
though not large. The walrus is a mixed feeder, chiefly subsisting on
vegetable food: the canines are enormous. Other teeth belonging to the
incisor series are developed to the similitude of canines in many fossil
forms.
“ B.A. (Cantab)” speaks of the monkey as the “ frugivorous ancestor
of man.” Inspection of the stomach of a recently shot monkey (which,
by the way, is excellent food) in its native woods, would, I think, con¬
vince him that, like man, the monkey is a mixed feeder.
C. Carter Blake.
Sir,—The success of the vegetarian system will depend very much j
upon the proper proportioning of the various articles of diet, with j|
respect to each other, and to the peculiarities of bodily constitution. I j'
would strongly advise those who are thinking of becoming vegetarians j (
to provide themselves with a copy of the Quarterly Journal of Science •
for January, 1876, which contains an interesting paper upon the j
subject.
Those who have determined to try vegetarianism will find many most
useful hints in a little work called The Principles and Practice on
Vegetarian Cookery ; by John Smith. Published by Simpkin, Marshall, j
and Co., and by F. Pitman. 1860. 16mo. Dr. Pavy’s Treatise of
Food and Dietetics, Churchill: 1875, 8vo, may also be studied with
great advantage. W. Whitear.
Hornsey.
A PREDICTION CONCERNING “THE REIGN OF TERROR.” |
The late Professor Gregory, in his book on Animal Mag¬
netism, says that spontaneous prevision has been recorded
as occurring in all ages, sometimes in the form of dreams,
at other times in that of waking visions or second sight.
By far the most remarkable, because the best attested, in¬
stance in modern times, is the celebrated prediction of M. j
Cazotte, concerning the events of the Reign of Terror. I
shall give it entire, and I shall only premise, that it was
well known in all its details both in Paris and London at a
time when every one thought it a mere dream. I have seen
persons who heard of it very soon after it was delivered, and
who remembered hearing it ridiculed in society as absurd, j
It is particularly worthy of notice, that Cazotte, who was a j
man of a very peculiar turn of mind, and much addicted to the !
I study of occult science, was also subject to fits of abstrac-
| tion, reverie, or dreaming, in which he seems to have been
clairvoyant, and that this was far from being the only occa¬
sion in which he uttered predictions which were verified.
He is to be considered as a man subject to fits of spontaneous
lucidity, which, in his case, often took the form of prevision.
The following account is extracted from the posthumous
memoirs of La Harpe:—
u It appears but as yesterday ; yet, nevertheless, it was at
| the beginning of the year 1788. We were dining with one
of our brethren at the Academy—a man of considerable
wealth and genius. The company was numerous and diver¬
sified—courtiers, lawyers, academicians, &c.; and, according
to custom, there had been a magnificent dinner. At dessert,
the wines of Malvoisin and Constantia added to the gaiety
of the guests that sort of license which is sometimes
forgetful of bon ton:—we had arrived, in a word, just at
that time when anything was permitted that would raise a
| laugh. Chamfort had read to us some of his impious and
! libertine tales, and even the great ladies had listened without
| having recourse to their fans. From this arose a deluge of
| jests against religion. One quoted a tirade from the Pucelle ;
II another recalled the philosophic lines of Diderot—
* Ft des boyaux du dernier pretre,
Serrer le cou du dernier roi,'
[| for the sake of applauding them. A third rose, and holding
[| his glass in his hand, exclaimed, 1 Yes, gentlemen, I am as
\ | sure that there is no God as I am sure that Homer was a
!j fool A and, in truth, he was as sure of the one as of the
j other. The conversation became more serious ; much admi-
I ration was expressed on the revolution which Voltaire had
j effected, and it was agreed that it was his first claim to the
j reputation he enjoyed:—he had given the prevailing tone to
I his age, and had been read in the antechamber as well as in
j the drawing-room. One of the guests told us, while burst-
! ing with laughter, that his hairdresser, while powdering his
i hair, had said to him, c Do you observe, sir, that although I
jl am but a poor miserable barber, I have no more religion than
I any other J We concluded that the revolution must soon be
| consummated—that it was indispensable that superstition and
| fanaticism should give place to philosophy, and we began to
| calculate the probability of the period when this should be,
! and which of the present company should live to see the
j reign of reason. The oldest complained that they could
I scarcely flatter themselves with the hope ; the young rejoiced
I that they might entertain this very probable expectation;
| and they congratulated the academy especially for having
I prepared the great work, and for having been the great
j rallying point, the centre, and the prime mover of the
i liberty of thought.
j “One only of the guests had not taken part in all the
[ joyousness of this conversation, and had even gently and
j cheerfully checked our splendid enthusiasm. This was
j Cazotte, an amiable and original man, but unhappily in-
| fatuated with the reveries of the illuminati. He spoke, and
| with the most serious tone. ‘Gentleman,’ said he, ‘be
j satisfied ; you will all see this great and sublime revolution,
j which you so much admire. You know that I am a little
j inclined to prophecy; I repeat, you will see it.’ He was
j answered by the common rejoinder, ‘ One need not be a con-
i juror to see that.’’ ‘ Be it so; but perhaps one must be a little
j more than conjuror, for what remains for me to tell you. Do
j you know what will be the consequence of this revolution,
j what will be the consequence to all of you, and what will be
| the immediate result, the well-established effect, the
! thoroughly recognised consequence to all of you who are here
j present?’ ‘ Ah !’ said Condorcet, with his insolent andhalf-
j suppressed smile, ‘ let us hear, a philosopher is not afraid
j to encounter a prophet.’ ‘ You, Monsieur de Condorcetj you
j will yield up your last breath on the floor of a dungeon ; you
j will die from poison, which you will have taken, in order to
j escape from execution, from poison, which the happiness of
| that time will oblige you to carry about your person.’
j “At first astonishment was most marked, but it was soon
j recollected that the good Cazotte is liable to dreaming, though
(| apparently wide awake, and a hearty laugh is the consequence.
300
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 22, 1877.
* Monsieur Cazotte, the relation you give is not so agreeable |
as your Diable Ammreux'1—(a novel of Cazotte’s). j
“ ‘ But what diable has put into your head this prison and !
these executioners? What can all these have in common j
with philosophy and the reign of reason ?’ ‘This is exactly I
what I say to you; it is in the name of philosophy, of |
humanity, of liberty; it is under the reign of reason, that it ji,
will happen to you thus to end your career; and it will j|
indeed be the reign of reason; for then she will have her I
temples, and indeed, at that time, there will be no other !
temples in France than the temples of reason.’ ‘By my |
truth,’ said Chamforth, with a sarcastic smile, iyou will not j
be one of the priests of those temples.’ ‘ I do not hope it; j
but you, Monsieur de Chamfort, you will be one, and most j
worthy to be so ; you will open your veins with twenty-two I
cuts of a razor, and yet you will not die till some months after- j
wards.’ They looked at each other, and laughed again. |
‘ You, Monsieur Yicq d’Azir, you will not open your own !
veins, but you will cause yourself to be bled, six times in one j
day, during a paroxysm of the gout, in order to make more j
sure of your end, and you will die in the night. You, Mon- j
sier de Nicolai, you will die upon the scaffold; you, M. Bailly j j
on the scaffold; you, Monsieur de Malesherbes, on the j j
scaffold.’ ‘Ah! God be thanked,’exclaimed Boucher, ‘it-,j|
seems that Monsieur has no eye but for the Academy—of it j j
he has just made a terrible execution, and X, thank Heaven j j
, . .’ ‘You! you also will die upon the scaffold.’ ‘Oh, | j
what an admirable guesser,’ was uttered on all sides; ‘he j j
has sworn to exterminate us all.’ ‘ No, it is not I who have j j
sworn it.’ ‘ But shall we then be conquered by the Turks or I j
the Tartars? Yet again . . .’ ‘Not at all; I have j
already told you, you will then be governed only by |
philosophy, only by reason. They who will thus treat you, |
will be all philosophers, will always have upon their lips the j
selfsame phrases which you have been putting forth for the j||
last hour, will repeat all your maxims, and will quote as ?!
you have done, the verses of Diderot, and from La Pucelle.' j j
They then whispered among themselves, ‘ You see that he I j
is gone mad,’ for he preserved all this time the most serious I |
and solemn manner. ‘Do you not see that he is joking? j j
and you know that, in the character of his jokes, there is | j
always much of the marvellous.’ ‘ Yes,’ replied Chamfort, | |
‘ but his marvellousness is not cheerful, it savours too much | !
of the gibbet; and when will all this happen ?’ ‘ Six years j j
will not have passed over before all that I have said to you j
shall be accomplished.’ j I
“ ‘ Here are some astonishing miracles ’ (and this time it j j
was myself who spoke), ‘but you have not included me in j j
your list.’ ‘But you will be there, as an equally extra- j
ordinary miracle; you will then be a Christian.’
“Vehement exclamations on all sides. ‘Ah,’ replied j j
Chamfort, ‘ I am comforted; if shall perish only when | I
La Harpe shall be a Christian, we are immortal.’
“ ‘ As for that,’ then observed Madame la Duchesse de j j
Grammont, ‘we women, we are happy to be counted for j j
nothing in these revolutions; when I say for nothing, it | j
is not that we do not always mix ourselves up with them | |
a little ; but it is a received maxim, that they take no notice | |
of us, and of our sex.’ ‘ Your sex, ladies, will not pro- | |
tect you this time; and you had far better meddle with | j
nothing, for you will be treated entirely as men, without Hi
any difference whatever.’ ‘ But what, then, are you really j j
telling us of, Monsieur Cazotte ? You are preaching to us j j
the end of the world.’ ‘I know nothing on that subject: j j
but what I do know is, that you, Madame le Duchesse, will | j
be conducted to the scaffold, you and many other ladies with | j
you, in the cart of the executioner, and with your hands tied I i
behind your backs.’ ‘ Ah ! I hope that, in that case, I shall j i
have a carriage hung in black.’ ‘No, madame; higher j |
ladies than yourself will go like you in the common car, with j j
their hands tied behind them.’ ‘Higher ladies! what, the | |
princesses of the blood?’ ‘ Still more exalted personages.’ j j
Here a sensible emotion pervaded the whole company, and j j
the countenance of the host was dark and lowering: they I |
began to feel that the joke was become too serious. Madame | I
de Grammont, in order to dissipate the cloud, took no notice ! I
of the reply, and contented herself with saying, in a careless | |
tone, ‘ You see that he will not leave me even a confessor.' | |
‘No, madame, you will not have one, neither you, nor any^ |w
! j one besides. The last victim to whom this favour will be
| afforded will be . . .’ He stopped for a moment. ‘ Well!
| who then will be the happy mortal to whom this prerogative
| will be given ?’ ‘ ’Tis the only one which he will have then
j retained—and that will be the king of France.’
“ The master of the house rose hastily, and every one with
i him.. He walked up to M. Oazotte, and addressed him with
! a tone of deep emotion : ‘ My dear Monsieur Cazotte, this
i mournful joke has lasted long enough. You carry it too far
| —even so far as to derogate from the society in which you
| are, and from your own character.’ Cazotte answered not a
j word, and was preparing to leave, when Madame de Gram-
| mont, who always sought to dissipate serious thought, and
| to restore the lost gaiety of the party, approached him, say-
! ing, ‘ Monsieur the prophet, who has foretold us of our good
| fortune, you have told us nothing of your own.’ He remained
| silent for some time, with downcast eyes. ‘ Madame, have
| you ever read the siege of Jerusalem, in Josephus ?’ ‘ Yes!
| who has not read that ? But answer as if I had never read
| it.’ ‘Well, then, madame, during the siege, a man, for
I seven days in succession, went round the ramparts of the
! city, in sight of the besiegers and besieged, crying un-
| ceasingly, with an ominous and thundering voice, Woe to
• Jerusalem ; and the seventh time he cried, Woe to Jerusalem,
! woe to myself—and at that moment an enormous stone, pro-
| jected from one of the machines of the besieging army,
| struck him, and destroyed him.’
“ And, after this reply, M. Cazotte made his bow and
retired.
“ When, for the first time, I read this astonishing pre¬
diction, I thought that it was only a fiction of La Harpe’s,
and that that celebrated critic wished to depict the astonish¬
ment which would have seized persons distinguished for their
rank, their talents, and their fortune, if, several years before
j the revolution, one could have brought before them the
| causes which were preparing, and the frightful consequences
j which would follow. The inquiries which I have since made,
| and the information I have gained, have induced me to
! change my opinion. M. le Comte A. de Montesquieu,
| having assured me that Madame de Genlis had repeatedly
| told him that she had often heard this prediction related by
| M. de La Harpe, I begged of him to have the goodness to
| solicit from that lady more ample details. This is her
| reply:—
November, 1825.
I think I have somewhere placed, among my souvenirs, the anecdote
of M. Cazotte, but I am not sure. I have heard it related a hundred
times by M. de La Harpe, before the revolution, and always in the same
form as I have met with it in print, and as he himself has caused it to
j be printed. This is all that I can say, or certify, or authenticate by
my signature.—Comtesse de Genlis.
I have also seen the son of M. Cazotte, who assured me that his father
was gifted, in a most remarkable manner, with a faculty of prevision,
of which he had numberless proofs; one of the most remarkable of
which was, that on returning home on the day on which his daughter
had succeeded in delivering him from the hands of the wretches who
were conducting him to the scaffold, instead of partaking the joy of his
surrounding family, he declared that in three days he should be again
arrested, and that he should then undergo his fate; and in truth he
perished on the 25th of Sept., 1792, at the age of 72.
“In reference to the above narrative, M. Cazotte, jun.,
would not undertake to affirm that the relation of La Harpe
was exact in all its expressions, but had not the smallest
doubts as to the reality of facts.
“ I ought to add, that a friend of Vicq d’Azir, an in¬
habitant of Rennes, told me that that celebrated physician,
having travelled into Brittany some years before the revolu¬
tion, had related to him, before his family, the prophecy of
Cazotte. It seemed that, notwithstanding his scepticism,
Vicq d’Azir was uneasy about this prediction.
“ Letter on this subject addressed to M. Mialle by M. le
Baron Delamothe Langon :—
You inquire of me, my dear friend, what I know concerning the
famous prediction of Cazotte mentioned by La Harpe. I have only on
this subject to assure you upon my honour, that I have heard Madame
la Comtesse de Beauharnais many times assert that she was present at
this very singular historical fact. She related it always in the same
way, and with the accent of truth; her evidence fully corroborated
that of La Harpe. She spoke thus, before all the persons of the society
in which she moved, many of whom still live, and could equally attest
this assertion.
You may make what use you please of this communication.
June 22, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C. '
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Kugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. 6d.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’S views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6<L
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee oi
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W/
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. Ss.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttletoh. 2 Vols.. cfown 8vo., 15s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium ught. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supornaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
leving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this hook, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam, fis
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL-
• ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid. ,
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WGRLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Gonant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
14 0
18 0
12 6
16 0
7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) , . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . .
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts , 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 3
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .26
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . 10 6
GARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. II. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Dayis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s. .
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
. Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: !. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid,
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Sees'," s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations .* . ... , 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .. . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , .. . .76
The Thinker. ..V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . ,36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . , .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . .. .3 6,
History and Philosophy, of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health -, . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . ..76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits Of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . , .30
Morning Lectures , ■ . , . , , .76
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. Sd.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. Is. 6d.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
. Is.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 6d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Hallock. Soiled, Is.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut, is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow.
6d.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper, Is.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEATJTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. ■ It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
Ihe above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Mediumship t its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instanees of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-cal!od
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C,
IV
THE SPIEITUALIST,
June 22, 1877,
The great question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable.. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as .much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME f For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY I M.A. (OXON.).”
Introdtjctoby Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION 1.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten's History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace's Miracles and Modern Spiritualism. Ho witt's
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
Edmond's Tracts.
SECTION II.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana of Spiritualism,
(reviewed). Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke’s Researches, De. Morgan’s P'rom Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable cf
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism.
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. G. Hall’s Use of Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exempli3ed in simple dear-
sight or psychometricaliy in Denton’s Soul of Things, and
Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vie luture.
SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness,Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and letter in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L AX!., London, writes :—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being tne only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“Ifeel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A. .
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or .food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
IM. BERAL."
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. Cd.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
THE TRANS-CORPOREAL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Death: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained.]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books cn the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not be substan¬
tially changed.
S; The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle. ’•
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developod physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be stiengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?’’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate desenptimi of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. 'We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By FREDERICK
A. Binnby.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTIC 4. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z., B.T.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
P
SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre AksakOF, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BRIGHTON.—The spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James's-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
VJ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedtetday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
animal subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbora Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
