A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREfp Of THE fCIEJ^CE ^ND ETHICS OF ^PIF^ITU/iTIfM.
[EEGISTERED FOE TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 31.—(VOL. IL, No. 3.) LONDON : FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1872. PUMont^ PriceVSeepencT7
POPULAR OBJECTIONS TO SPIRITUALISM,
i The scientific world is admitting the previously denied
facts of mesmerism with great rapidity in order to ex¬
plain away the facts of Spiritualism, the argument of
those who have not investigated, being that spiritual
phenomena are subjective and not objective. This is
the line of argument adopted by Dr. Balfour Stewart,
F.R.S., Mr. E. B. Tylor, E.R.S., the Quarterly Review,
and others. We, therefore, print several articles de¬
monstrating that the objection is not valid, and trust
that well-informed readers will excuse us for giving so
much old information in this number of The Spiritualist,
seeing that it makes it a useful number to present to
persons unacquainted with the subject.. It is also a
complete answer to Mr. Seijeant Cox’s pamphlet, which
all turns upon his assertion (on page 42 of Spiritualism
Answered by Science') that:—“ Nothing is conveyed by
them [the messages] that is not in the mind of the
psychic or some person present.”
THE OBJECTIVE NATURE OF SPIRITUAL
PHENOMENA.*
BY ALFRED RUSSELL WALLACE, PRESIDENT OF THE ENTO¬
MOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
“ There is only one point in Mr. Tylor’s communi¬
cation (Nature, Feb. 29, p. 343) on which it seems
desirable that I should say a few words, in order that I
may not be supposed to assent to what I conceive to be
a most erroneous view. Mr. Tylor suggests that the
phenomena that occur in the presence of what are called
mediums, are or may be of the same nature as the sub¬
jective impressions of persons under the influence of a
powerful mesmeriser. Five and twenty years ago I was
myself a practised mesmeriser, and was able to produce
on my own patients almost the whole range of pheno¬
mena which are exhibited in public as illustrative of
f mesmerism ’ or 4 electro-biology.’ I carried on nume¬
rous experiments in private, and paid especial attention
to the conditions under which the phenomena occur.
During the last seven years I have had repeated oppor¬
tunities of examining the phenomena that occur in the
presence of so-called ‘ mediums,’ often under such
favourable conditions as to render trick or imposture
simply impossible. I believe, therefore, I may lay
claim to some qualifications for comparing the mesmeric
with the mediumistic phenomena with especial refer¬
ence to Mr. Tylor’s suggestion, and I find that there
are two great characteristics that broadly distinguish
the one from the other.
‘ “ 1. The mesmerised patient never has doubts of the
reality of what he sees or hears. He is like a dreamer
to whom the most incongruous circumstances suggest
no idea of incongruity, and he never inquires if what he
thinks he perceives harmonises with his actual sur¬
roundings. He has, moreover, lost his memory of what
and where he was a few moments before, and can give
no account, for instance, of how he has managed to get
out of a lecture-room in London to which he came as a
spectator half an hour before, on to an Atlantic steamer
in a hurricane, or into the recesses of a tropical forest.
“ The assistants at the seances of Mr. Home or Mrs.
Guppy are not in this state, as I can personally testify,
and as the almost invariable suspicion with which the
phenomena are at first regarded clearly demonstrates.
They do not lose memory of the immediately preceding
events; they criticise, they examine, they take notes,
they suggest tests—none of which the mesmerised
patient ever does.
“ 2. The mesmeriser has the power of acting on
* certain sensitive individuals ’ (not on ‘ assemblies ’ of
people, as Mr. Tylor suggests), and all experience shows
that those who are thus sensitive to any one operator
are but a small proportion of the population, and these
almost always require previous manipulation with pas¬
sive submission to the operator. The number who can
be acted upon without such previous manipulation is
very small, probably much less than one per cent. But
there is no such limitation to the number of persons
who simultaneously see the mediumistic phenomena.
The visitors to Mr. Home or Mrs. Guppy all see what¬
ever occurs of a physical nature, as the records of hun¬
dreds of sittings demonstrate.
“ The two classes of phenomena, therefore, differ
fundamentally; and it is a most convincing proof of
Mr. Tylor’s very slender acquaintance with either of
them, that he should even suggest their identity. The
real connection between them is quite in an opposite
direction. It is the mediums, not the assistants, who
are ‘ sensitives.’ They are almost always subject to the
mesmeric influence, and they often exhibit all the cha¬
racteristic phenomena of coma, trance, rigidity, and
abnormal sense-power. Conversely, the most sensitive
mesmeric patients are almost invariably mediums. The
idea that it is necessary for me to inform ‘ Spiritualists’
that I believe in the power of mesmerisers to make
their patient believe what they please, and that this
I information ’ might ‘ bring about investigations leading
to valuable results,’ is really amusing, considering that
such investigations took place twenty years ago, and led
to this important result—that almost all the most expe¬
rienced mesmerists (Prof. Gregory, Dr. Elliotson, Dr.
Reichenbach, and many others) became Spiritualists!
If Mr. Tylor’s suggestion had any value, these are the
very men who ought to have demonstrated the subjec¬
tive nature of mediumistic phenomena; but, on the
contrary, as soon as they had the opportunity of per¬
sonally investigating them, they all of them saw and
admitted their objective reality.
“Alfred R. Wallace.”
THE MATERIALISING OF THE BODIES
OF SPIRITS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
About a fortnight ago, Mr. Guppy sent me an invita¬
tion from the spirits, endorsed by himself and Mrs.
Guppy, to go there to see what more the spirits could
do in the way of materialising their faces. Accordingly
it was a great pleasure to me to be present last Friday
evening, March 8th, to witness the progress made in
this most important of the physical manifestations of
Spiritualism.
As the daylight began to fade away, Mrs. Guppy
suggested that the light might not be too strong for the
production of spirit faces. We had had to sit for them
by moonlight before, as narrated in the last number of
the Spiritualist, so this was a step in advance. Master
Tommy Guppy, aged two years and-a-half, was taken
out of the room, lest he should be scared by the unex¬
pected appearance of anybody from the other world;
the door was locked to prevent interruption, and I
assisted in moving stands and other things out of the
photographic dark room, which was to serve as a
cabinet. This room, as stated last month, is five or six
feet square; it reaches from the floor to the ceiling,
which is a high one, and Mr. Guppy had sawn three
square openings at different elevations in the front of it,
one being about five feet from the ground, another near
the ceiling, and the third at an intermediate elevation.
There was also another in the side of the cabinet.
After moving the chemicals and things out of the
dark room till nothing was left in it, two light chairs
were placed in it for the mediums, who went in and
shut the door after them. It was scarcely closed when
a long, bare arm of beautiful proportions came out of
the windows in succession, including the upper window
by the ceiling; it was visible to within five or six inches
above the elbow.
Mr. Guppy and myself then took our seats about two
yards in front of the cabinet. The two large windows
of the room were behind us, so that the light from out¬
side the house, lit up the front of the cabinet before us,
the three openings therein, and the door of the cabinet;
all these directly faced us.
All was quiet for a few minutes, with the exception
of our conversation with Mrs. Guppy and her.friend;
the latter lady will not permit her name to be published
as a medium, in order to escape newspaper abuse.
Then raps came and said to the mediums, “ Put your
faces at the window.” They lifted up the curtain of the
lower window, and placed their faces in the opening;
directly after they did so, a hand came out of the open¬
ing two or three feet above their heads, laid hold of the
curtain of that opening, and tore it away altogether
from the tacks which held it. This was done with con¬
siderable force.
Then a head and shoulders, covered with white drapery
of the purest material, appeared at the opening from
which the curtain had been torn away. We had a side
view at first] then the figure turned round so as to
face us ; the face was covered down to the chin with a
light veil, through which the eyes, nose, and mouth
could be dimly seen. After we had looked at it and
criticised it about a minute, Mrs. Guppy said she should
like to see it too, so put her head out of the lower open¬
ing, and looked upwards trying to see the form at the
upper one, but could see nothing, as the face was just
inside the cabinet. The other medium withdrew from
the lower window, and took a look upwards inside the
cabinet. She said she saw the spirit “ Katie ” veiled as
described, looking down at her ; she was slightly lumi¬
nous ; only the bust was materialised, and a little below
the shoulders the form seemed to melt into thin air.
The mediums, who hitherto had been in a somewhat
lively mood, now began to be serious.
After some delay they put both their faces to the
opening again, then a spirit face, unveiled, came
between them. The face was a living one, surrounded
with delicate white drapery, as pure as the driven snow.
The face was equally white. One of the mediums was
elegantly dressed in white, as pure and clean as human
art could make it, but I distinctly noted that it looked
quite dingy by contrast with the spirit drapery with
which it was in immediate contact. Mrs. Guppy said
that the face itself was delicately coloured and of ex¬
treme beauty. In the twilight I could not see this
colour. I did not recognise the spirit, though in answer
to my question whether I had known her in earth life
she nodded three times, and turned about and exhibited
her face in various positions as if trying to aid me to
recognise her. The light was not strong, and as the
face had more than earthly beauty, these two causes
may account for my not recognising the features.
This face then went away; I had had a good look at it
for about two minutes; in fact, I advanced to within a yard
of it. It was quite opaque. The mediums shuddered
a little when they took sidelong glances at it, as it
rested there with its chin almost on their shoulders.
For some little time the mediums then talked to us
with their faces at the opening, when the younger
medium received a push which drove her against Mrs,
Guppy, and the spirit of a young girl looked out at the
side of the opening. She had a small head and face,
much smaller than those of the mediums, and she had
white drapery about her. It was now too dark to re¬
cognise features, but Mrs. Guppy described her as
“ plump and happy looking.; ” she continued a short
time peeping out at the window, and pressing against
the mediums with physical force, just as a human being
in the body would do. After the lapse of a minute or
two she went away, and the spirits said they could do
no more that evening. Katie said—“ We will give you
a better seance soon, Willie.”
This was a better seance than the one described in
the last number of the Spiritualist, as it was in a much
stronger light, except just at the close, and if the mani¬
festations continue to improve at the present rate, in a
month or two “ deceased ” friends will be systematically
making themselves visible to their relatives left on
earth, and will talk to them just as if once more clothed
in flesh and blood. This great result has already been
attained at Mr. Keeler’s circle in America.
I am not a seeing-medium, or a medium of any kind;
these things were seen with normal eyesight, and I was
quite cool and collected, as long experience at spirit
circles strengthens the nerves for scenes of this kind.
A feeling of awe at the grandeur of the manifestations
grad&ally came over all of us, and made us more serious
than usual for a short time afterwards. Once I felt a
spirit head all over, as narrated in a back number of
The Spiritualist. It was warm, and had hard teeth,
and wet lips and tongue; to the touch it differed in no
respect from a human mortal head.
The veiled figure of Katie was evidently the same one
which appears in the spirit photographs Mr. Guppy is
beginning to obtain, and in America, at first, similar
veiled figures sometimes appeared on the plate in spirit
photographs. A photographer can easily produce better
spirit pictures than the real ones, by giving a person
who acts the “ spirit ” only one-third the time of exposure
in the camera, which the rest of the picture receives.
Mr. Guppy’s real pictures are of another kind, but they
could easily be imitated by “masking” or “double
printing,” two operations well-known to photographers.
For a spirit photograph to carry evidence to outsiders,
the spirit should be beyond all mistake that of a deceased
person unknown to the photographer, and it should
have its arms round the neck of the sitter, that the two
forms may overlap each other at places. Such a picture
cannot possibly be imitated without collusion on the
part of the sitter, or knowledge of the deceased person
on the part of the photographer^ Mr. Livermore, the
New York banker, had a portrait of his deceased wife
under these test conditions and he made affidavit as to
* We quote this from last week’s number of Nature.—Ed.
18
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1872.
its genuine character in a court of law. Before long it
is to be hoped the same kind of pictures will be obtain¬
able in London.
There is a point of special scientific interest about
spirit photographs. In nearly all cases the spirit form
comes out more strongly than anything else in the
negative—more strongly than the white shirt-front of
the sitter. In most cases, hut not quite all, the spirit
is invisible to the eye at the time. It follows that if the
camera and sensitive plate are working under normal
conditions, some very intense chemical rays must he
thrown off by a spirit form when it is partially ma¬
terialised, though still invisible. I have strong reasons
for supposing that these partially materialised invisible
forms can move solid things by simply carrying them
in their hands, and that the “ psychic force,” which
pulled Mr. Crookes’s spring balance and played his
accordion while suspended on nothing in mid-air, was
an invisible hand and arm. These semi-materialised
forms may possibly throw off extra-violet rays of the
spectrum of great intensity; if so, such a phenomenon
is not outside the range of experimental physical science.
UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION, UNCONSCIOUS MUS¬
CULAR ACTION, AND “THE DEAD FORCE”
THEORIES.
The chief theories adverse to Spiritualism, advanced
by several scientific men who have written on the sub¬
ject without first obtaining practical knowledge thereof,
are included in the title of this article. Those three
theories were so utterly exploded many, many years
ago, both in this country and America, so thoroughly,
indeed, that they do not now influence the opinions of
any Spiritualist, that it is scarcely necessary to answer
them seriously, unless it be for the benefit of those of
the outside public who know nothing of the subject.
The chief reason why the hypotheses are untenable,
is that it is quite a Common thing for solid objects to be
carried long distances by the spirits, and brought into
the seance room. News, or practical information of a
definite nature, not known to any members of the circle,
has been given at circles by spirits, and the communi¬
cations have been afterwards proved to be true. Many
instances of the latter kind will be found in the official
report of the Committee of the Dialectical Society, and
the following are examples quoted from that report:—
1. The Rev. J. Murray Spear deposed to the Dialec¬
tical Committee (p. 136) :—
In March, 1852, my own hand was moved to write thus:—
“ We wish you to go to Abington and see David Vining.” I
did not know that a person of that name lived in that town.
Abington was twenty miles from Boston, my native city, where
the message was written. No person was with me at the time
of the writing.
I went to Abington as directed, found a person there bear¬
ing the name I had written, and more, that he was sick, and
had not slept for nearly ten days and nights. My hand was
moved towards him. I pointed at him, but did not touch
him: the pain was all driven from his system, and he soon
sank into a quiet sleep. ' I now perceived two points that
claimed my attention:—1st. This power, whatever it might
be, exhibited intelligence, for it gave me the name of a person
of whom I previously had no knowledge, and it directed me
to the place where he lived. 2nd. It exhibited beneficence;
for it sent me to do the person good.
2. Mr. J. Burns, in speaking of the first development
of the mediumship of his wife and sister, said (p. 151):—
Being rather sceptical as to their newly-found power, he
wrote, asking them to give him a proof of it, and they told
him that a certain young lady had lived in Carlisle, with her
father and mother, and as he was shortly after in Carlisle, he
made inquiries from the tax-gatherer and found that their
statement was correct.
3. Mr. C. F. Yarley, E.R.S., deposed that the spirits
foretold the time of appearance of three ulcers on the
chest of a lady, and the exact time to a minute when
they would break. It all proved to be correct (p. 158).
4. Mr. Yarley also deposed (p. 160) :—
In the winter of 1864-5,1 was busy with the Atlantic cable.
I left a gentleman at Birmingham to test the iron wire. He
had seen something of Spiritualism, but he did not believe in
it. He had had a brother whom I had never seen in life.
One night in my room there were a great number of loud
raps. When at length I sat up in bed I saw a man in the air
—a spirit—in military dress. I could see the pattern of the
paper on the wall through him. Mrs. Yarley did not see it.
She was in a peculiar state, and became entranced. The
spirit spoke to me through her.
A gentleman asked how that was supposed to be done ?
Mr. Yarley—While the person is in a trance the spirit con¬
trols the body and speaks and acts through the muscles and
organs. He told me his name, and said that he had seen his
brother in Birmingham, but that what he had to communicate
was not understood. He asked me to write a message to his
brother, which I did, and received an answer from Birming¬
ham, “ Yes, I know my brother has seen you, for he came to
me and was able to make known as much.” The gentleman,
as I said, was at Birmingham, and I was at Beckenham.
This spirit informed me that when at school in France he
was stabbed. This fact was only known to his eldest sur¬
viving brother and his mother. It had been concealed from
bis father on account of the state of the latter’s health.
When I narrated this to the survivor, he turned very pale,
and confirmed it.
5. Mr. T. Shorter deposed (p. 177):—
I have related the instance of a friend who was about to
emigrate, and from information received from the emigration
authorities, expected to sail in a week. It was telegraphed
through the table-movements that he would not sail for thirty-
one days, unforeseen circumstances delayed his departure, and
he sailed just thirty-one days from that time. On another
occasion, I inquired concerning a friend in Australia of a spirit
relative of his who purported to be present, and received
sundry information concerning him, which subsequently
proved to be correct. Among other things, I, as a test,
inquired how long it was since my friend left England, and
was told three years and a-half. I maintained it could not be
more than three years, but the spirit insisted that it was three
years and a-half. On inquiry, I' found it was three years
and seven months less one week; no one present but myself
knew of the circumstances referred to.
6. Mr. Manuel Eyre, an American, deposed that one
object of his visit to England was to discover the
register of the baptism of a person horn in England,
which register he expected to find in Yorkshire or Cam¬
bridgeshire. He added (p. 180) :—
Before leaving home I wrote out and numbered about a
dozen questions—among them was the question, “ Where can
I find the register of the baptism I am searching for ?” The
paper with the questions I had folded and placed in a stout
envelope and closed it. When we sat down to the table I
asked, after some other questions, if the spirits would answer
the questions I had written and had in my pocket—the answer
by raps, was “ Yes.” I asked if I should lay the paper with the
questions unfolded as it was, and in the envelope on the table,
and the answer was “ Yes.” I took the envelope containing these
questions out of my pocket, and without opening it, laid it on
the table. I then took a piece of paper and, as the questions
were answered,—No. 1,2, and so on,—I wrote down the answers.
When we came to the question where I could get the register
of this baptism, the table telegraphed “ Stepney Church,”
! and at the same time Mrs. Marshall, sen., in her pecuhar
manner, blurted out “ Stepney.” Being at that time a
stranger in London, I did not know there was such a place. I
went on with the questions I had prepared, and got correct
answers to all of them. A few days afterwards I went to
Stepney Church, and after spending some days in searching, I
there found the register of the baptism as I had been told.
7. The same witness deposed how he was present at
a circle where Mrs. Macready, the dramatic reader,
asked whether she and another lady also present, would
ever meet again. A spirit answered, “ Yes, yon will
meet in England, and under very trying and heart¬
rending circumstances, and Mrs. N will then he a
widow.” Years afterwards Mrs. Macready met Mrs.
N   at the Camberwell Lunatic Asylum. Mr. N 
was dead, and Mrs. N   had become insane through
painful reverses in life.
8. Mr. Hockley deposed (p. 184):—
Some time ago I was introduced to Lieutenant Burton by
Earl Stanhope, and he wished me to get him a crystal, with a
spirit attached. I also gave him a black mirror as well, and
he used that in the same manner as you would a crystal.
You invoke the person whom you wish to appear, and the
seer looks in and describes all, and put questions and receives
answers. Lieutenant Burton was greatly pleased and went
away. One day my seeress called him into the mirror. She
plainly recognised him, although dressed as an Arab and
sunburnt, and described what he was doing. He was quarrel¬
ing with a party of Bedouins in Arabia, and speaking energet¬
ically to them in Arabic. An old man at last pulled out his
dagger and the Heutenant his revolver, when up rode a horse¬
man and separated them. A long time afterwards Lieutenant
Burton came to me, and I told him what she had seen, and
read the particulars. He assured me it was correct in every
particular, and attached his name to the account I had written
down at the time, to certify that it was true.
The philosophy of the above probably is that the
crystal simply withdraws the attention of the medium
from surrounding sources of disturbance; that a spirit
then mesmerises the sensitive, and what the spirit
thinks the medium sees.
9. Mr. D. D. Home deposed (p. 192):—
When the Henry Olay was burnt in America there was a
case in point. I saw Jackson Downing standing before me
with a deep scar on his forehead. I said, “ Jackson Down¬
ing is lost !” “No,” said Dr.  ,“he is saved; he swam
on shore with Mrs. Downing.” Mrs. Downing was at the
hotel, but she became uneasy when she found that her hus¬
band did not appear. She said she had seen him on shore
after he swam with her. It was then found that he had swam
out again to assist some one, and a mast falling overboard
split his skull, just as I saw it.
10. Signor Damiani deposed (p. 195)—
In the spring of 1865 I was induced by a friend to
attend my first seance. This I remember, took place at No.
13, Yictoria-place, Clifton, the medium being Mrs. Mar¬
shall. I had been, up to that moment, an utter sceptic in
spiritual matters; chokeful of positivism, I conceived man to
be but a very acute monkey (simia gigantis stupenda, to be
scientific), and recognised in life only a brief and somewhat un¬
satisfactory farce. I was, however, at the same time, open to
conviction,—which perhaps was foolish in me. I found assem¬
bled at this seance some forty gentlemen, lawyers, physicians,
clergymen, and journalists, besides a fair sprinkling of ladies.
A medical man, well-known in the neighbourhood of Bristol,
Dr. Davey, of Norwood, filled the chair. At first, I refused to
sit at the large table whereat the manifestations were to take
place, for being what I have now ceased to be, an unqualified
believer in the candour and truthfulness of the newspaper
press, I made up my mind (certain journalistic comments
being fresh in my recollection) to keep a sharp look-out upon
the medium’s movements. I was thus occupied (intentaque
ora tenebat) when sounds altogether unlike anything in my
experience were distinctly heard by me to proceed from the
ceiling, some four yards as I should judge, above the medium.
These sounds, travelling down the wall, along the floor, and
up the claws and pillars of the large round table, came re¬
sounding in its very centre. This ought to have convinced
me at once that the medium’s toes, at least, had nothing to
do with the phenomenon; but prejudiced incredulity is so
strong a cuirass against the sword of truth, that I remained
still watching the feet of the medium under the table, as a
cat does its prey. The chairman was the first to commence
conversation with our (supposed) spiritual visitors. Shortly
afterwards it came my turn to talk with the spirits. “ Who
is there?” “Sister,” was rapped out in reply. “What
sister?” “Marietta.” “Don’t know you; that is not a
a family name;—are you not mistaken ?” “ No; I am your
sister.” This was too much: I left the table in disgust.
Still, those knocks proceeding from the ceiling had puzzled
me, and excited my curiosity; therefore, when the company
dispersed, I remained behind, to discover if I could, the
modus operandit I invited myself (the assurance of sceptics
is proverbial) to take tea with Mrs. Marshall and her hostess,
after which I begged to have a private seance. “ Now I shall
catch you,” I thought. Sure enough the raps came again,
distinct and sonorous as before. “ Who are you ?” “ Marietta.”
“ Again ! Why does not a sister whom I can remember come?”
“I will bring one;” and the raps were, now heard to recede,
becoming faint and fainter until lost in the distance. In a
few seconds a double knock, like the trot of a horse, was heard
approaching, striking the ceiling, the floor, and lastly the
table. “ Who is there ?” “ Your sister Antoinetta.” “ That
is a good guess,” thought I. “Where did you pass away?”
“ Chieti.” “When?”—Thirty-four loud distinct raps suc¬
ceeded. Strange—my sister so named had certainly died at
Chieti just thirty-four years before. “ How many brothers
and sisters had you then? Can you give me their names?”
Five names (the real ones) all correctly spelt in Italian were
given. Numerous other tests produced equally remarkable
results. I then felt I was in the presence of my sister.
“ If that is not in truth my sister,” I thought, “ then there
exists in nature something more wondrous and mysterious
even than the soul and its immortality.” What had taken
place at this, my first stance, produced such an effect upon
my mind that I determined to continue the investigation until
I could come finally to a rational conclusion upon the subject.
During the fortnight of Mrs. Marshall’s stay in Clifton, I fre¬
quented the seances daily, and on an average for four hours
a-day. Spirit after spirit I evoked, who one and all estab-
lished their identity through the most searching tests. Having
been thus uniformly successful, I felt somewhat perplexed
about Marietta. Had I been mystified in her case, and in
hers alone ? Finally, I wrote to my mother, then living in
Sicily, inquiring whether, among the nine children she had
borne and buried, there had been one named Marietta. By
return of post, my brother, Joseph Damiani, architect, now
residing at Palermo, wrote as follows :—“ In reply to your
inquiry, mother wishes me to tell you that on October 2nd,
1821, she gave birth at the town of Messina, to a female child,
who came into the world in so weakly a condition, that the
midwife, using her prerogative in such emergencies, gave her
baptism. Six hours after birth the child died, when the mid¬
wife disclosed the fact of her having baptised the infant
under the.name of Maria (the endearing diminutive of which
is Marietta). The birth and death of this sister I have
verified by reference to the family register.” You must admit,
gentlemen, that in the above case “ unconscious cerebration ”
has not one leg to stand upon.
11. Lord Lindsay deposed (p. 215):—
A friend Of mine was very anxious to find the will of his
grandmother, who had been dead forty years, but could not
even find the certificate of her death. I went with him to
the Marshall’s, and we had a stance; we sat at a table, and
soon the raps came; my friends then asked his questions
mentally; he went over the alphabet himself, or sometimes I
did so, not knowing the question. We were told the will had
been drawn by a man named William Walker, who lived in
Whitechapel; the name of the street, and the number of the
house were given. We went to Whitechapel, found the man,
and subsequently, through his aid, obtained a copy of the
draft; he was quite unknown to us, and had not always lived
in that locality, for he had once seen better days. The medium
could not possibly have known anything about the matter,
and even if she had, her knowledge would have been of no
avail, as all the questions were mental ones.
12. Mr. Percival, an officer in the Guards, testified
how the spirits showed him in advance several scenes
and persons he afterwards met in life (p. 222).
13. Mr. Burns deposed (p. 357):—
Mrs. Burns and myself were present at a seance at Mr.
Mylne’s house, in Islington. A female figure was minutely
described by Mrs. Bums as standing near me, who said she
was related to me. My family connections are very few, so I
had no difficulty in recalling them all, and I was obliged to
deny that I had ever had , such a relative. A few months after¬
wards I visited my parents in Ayrshire, accompanied by my
sister-in-law, Miss Mary, who had not been at the seance
at Islington. We had a sitting, and she described the same
spirit as standing between my mother and myself, and said
that she was a near relation of mine, who was attracted to
me on account of my literary pursuits. I replied that I was
certain there was some mistake, as I could recall no such
person as having been a member of our family. As soon as
my mother heard the full description of the spirit, she said it
applied to an only sister of hers who died upwards of seventy
years ago, and of whose existence I had never heard.
14. In a book entitled An Experimental Investigation
of Spiritual Manifestations, by Robert Hare, M.D.,
Emeritus Professor of Chemistry in the University of
Philadelphia, Graduate of Yale College and Harvard
University, Associate of the Smithsonian Institute, and
the inventor of the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe, the author
tells how a message was carried for him by spirits. His
book was published in 1855 in New York, by Partridge
and Brittan, and there is a copy in the British Museum
Library. The following is a summary of Dr. Hare’s
statement:—
Being at Cape May Island, a watering place some twenty
or thirty miles from Philadelphia, one day at one o’clock, he
requested a spirit to go to his friend Mrs. Gourlay, at No. 178,
North Tenth Street, Philadelphia, to ask her to request Dr.
Gourlay, her husband, to go to the Philadelphia Bank and
ascertain for him at what time a note would be due, telling
the spirit that he (Dr. Hare) would sit at half-past three to
receive an answer. At the time specified the spirit gave him
a reply. He afterwards learnt from Mrs. Gourlay that she
was at a seance at the time, that she received the message,
that Dr. Gourlay and her brother went to the bank then, gave
the spirit the message which Dr. Hare received in reply. Dr.
Hare thought the spirit had given him the wrong date, but it
was the right one, and Dr. Hare’s impression what the date
ought to have been was a mistake. The clerk at the bank
corroborated the fact of Dr. Gourlay’s application.
Spiritual literature abounds in examples of knowledge
not possessed by any member of the circle, being im¬
parted to the members of the circle by spirits. In the
March 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
19
back numbers of The Spiritualist there are several; in
one instance Mr. T. Everitt was told at. different times
of things taking place on board a ship then on the high
seas on its way to New Zealand. In the book by
Professor Gregory, F.E.S.E., on Mesmerism, it is told
how by clairvoyance a medium saw and described
persons at a distance, the said persons being unknown
to anybody present even by name, and the medium
having been placed en rapport with them by means of
small scraps of their writing, sent to the mesmerisers
for the purpose by the secretary to the Eoyal Geogra¬
phical Society. Judge Edmonds, in the preface to his
work on Spiritualism, gives several instances of spirits
bringing news long distances. It is not very often that
the individual inquirer has outside information of a
worldly nature brought by spirits, still the patient
investigator is sure to meet with such cases.
The next point to consider is the carrying of solid
objects long distances by spirits, and the back numbers
of The Spiritualist contain great numbers of such cases.
Some time ago all kinds of solid objects were carried
between the following houses during seances held
therein:—Mr. Samuel Guppy’s, 1, Morland-villas,
Highbury-hill-park, N.; Mrs. Lisette M. Gregory's,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square; Mr. Burns’, 15,
Southampton-row, Holborn; Mrs. Berry’s, near the
Marble-arch; and Messrs. Herne and Williams, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street. A few sittings of Mrs. Guppy
with Messrs. Herne and Williams, seemed to have first
given the spirits power to transport these objects. This
carrying work at last became annoying. All kinds of
goods not belonging to Mrs. Guppy kept making their
appearance there, till Mrs. Guppy talked of making a
museum with them ; there was much letter-writing to
find out who the goods belonged to, and the servants or
the London Parcels Delivery Company had to carry
them back. To stop this, Mrs. Guppy and Messrs.
Herne and Williams have for some time ceased to sit at
seances together, in order to break the thread of com¬
munication. Many particulars about these things will
be found in the back numbers of The Spiritualist.
There are several other mediums in London and the
provinces who get the same kind of manifestation, and
we could fill a small volume with cases if it were
necessary.
We quote the particulars of one seance. The reader
may ask where the fruits came from? We do not
know in the majority of cases. At all events the
spirit Katie sometimes asks Mr. Guppy for a few sove¬
reigns, which she takes away, without in all cases
saying what becomes of them, and once she admitted
having paid for a loaf which made its appearance in
the house one Sunday morning, just after they dis¬
covered that they were out of bread, and all the shops
shut.
Now and then during the following seance luminous
flashes pervaded the whole room, just like weak summer
lightning. We quote the account from the Spiritual
News of December 1st, 1870
Last Friday night, two seances, with an interval of one hour
for supper between them, took place at the residence of Mr.
S. Guppy, 1, Morland-villas, Highbury-hill-park. N. The
manifestations were due to the presence of the celebrated
non-professional medium, Mrs. E. Guppy. Eighteen ladies
and gentlemen were present, the'whole forming a friendly
party met for the purpose of celebrating the birthday of Mr.
Guppy. The seances took place in total darkness, in a draw¬
ing room of moderately large size ; the guests were seated in
irregular order, at all parts of the room.
Many physical manifestations took place; some Turkish bells
were heard floating about at all parts of the room, and round the
heads of the guests, and some tunes were well played on them
all the time they thus floated. A tambourine was carried about
and played upon in like manner. Now and then at one part
of the seance phosphorescent lights were seen shooting about
the room, and one of especial brilliancy shot from the table to
the ceiling. The table rocked about very much during the
evening ; in fact at times so violently that at last the leg of
it' was broken ; some rope-tying experiments, a la Davenport,
were tried with moderate success. We however purposely
pass over many things which were of much interest to those
assembled, in order to give more attention to manifestations
which although produced in the dark, occurred under such
test conditions as to be evidence to the outside public.
Those assembled expected to receive flowers from the spirits,
as usual at Mrs. Guppy’s seances, but [the table signalled out
that fruits would be supplied, and that each person in turn
might choose ,two kinds of fruit; in nine cases out of ten
each guest in the large dark room received the fruit asked for,
and in some cases instantaneously the said fruit being usually
placed in the open hand of the asker, or in the lap.
1.1 asked for an apple, and it was found on the sofa when a
light was struck. Afterwards I asked for a banana, which
was thrown on my hand a minute afterwards.—N. F. Daw
Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
2. I asked for a banana, which they placed in my hand
after almost all the other fruits had been given. They after¬
wards placed an apple in my hand, for which I had not asked,
and I felt the hand giving it to me as clearly as any human
hand. I asked for a “custard-apple’’from Canary, and they
said they could not give it me.—Georgiana Houghton,
20, Delamere-crescent, W.
3. I asked for grapes, and some time afterwards they were
placed on my dress. I next asked for anything they pleased,
and a hand which I felt, placed filberts, almonds, raisins, and
other small fruits in my lap.—Helen Louisa Chevalier,
21, St. Ann’s Villas, Notting-hill, W.
4. I asked for a pear, and it was picked up on the floor
when a light was struck. An orange was next given me,
which I had not asked for. Then I asked for a bunch of
raisins, and some minutes afterwards some raisins without
stalks were thrown to me wrapped in paper.—Heloise C. C.
Scott, 76, Tavistock-road, Westboume-park, W.
5. I asked for a bunch of Hack grapes, as the seance was a
dark one, and colour indistinguishable, and they were thrown
into my lap instantly. I next asked for a green fig, which was
also thrown into my lap at once.—Amelia C. Williamson,
76, Tavistock-road, W.
6. I asked for a lemon, and some time afterwards it fell at
my side, hitting my arm. I asked for a pine-apple, but they
said they had not one.—Emma Shorter, 23, Russell-road,
Holloway, N.
7. I asked for a cocoa-nut, and immediately a large one was
given me. I next asked for a Brazil-nut, which was presently
dropped near me. The cocoa-nut proved to be a pound and
a-half in weight when it was weighed after the close of the
seance.—Thomas Shorter, 23, Russell-road, Holloway, N.
8. I asked for candied peel, and some time afterwards it was
placed in my hand, by a hand which I felt. I next asked for
a quince, which was instantly thrown in my lap.—Sarah
Pearson, 7, Guildford-place, Russell-square, W. C.
9. I asked for a medlar, and soon afterwards it was put in
my hand by a hand which I felt. After that I asked for a
pomegranate, but a quince was thrown in my lap. A hand
made a sound upon my dress, and upon the dresses of four
persons near me, which is my departed mother’s signal to me
of her presence at seances.—Mary Pearson, 15, Harper-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C. .
10. I asked for an orange, which dropped near me some time
afterwards. I next asked for some white grapes, which were
given to a neighbour and handed to me.—Grace Emily
Combes, 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
11. I asked for a Brazil-nut, and one was put on the table.
I next asked for a laurel berry, and did not receive it.—
William H. Combes, 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
12. I asked for a bunch of grapes, and in about five minutes
they were placed in my hand. Afterwards a red capsicum
was placed in my hand.—Samuel Guppy, 1, Morland-villas,
Highbury-hill-park, N.
13. I asked for a fig, my dress was pulled three times, and
the fig lay at my feet. Next I asked for an almond, and three
were quickly put in my hand by a hand which I felt. A medlar
was also given me.—Alice Ellis, 29, Devonshire-street,
Queen’s-square, W.C.
14. I asked for a pomegranate, and immediately I was
gently tapped upon my knee with the fruit. Next I asked for
walnuts, and some minutes afterwards two walnuts and one
Brazil-nut were thrown to me. I was repeatedly touched by
spirit hands.—Edwin Ellis, 29, Devonshire-street, Queen’s-
square, W.C.
15. I asked for a capsicum, which was at once, while I was
asking for it, put in my mouth. I also asked for a prickly
pear, some biscuits, and preserved fruit, all of which I received.
I also had some grapes.—Lizzie Newland, 1, Morland-villas,
Highbury-hill-park, N.
16. I asked for some barberries, a pear for my little boy
Tommy and a quince, all of which they brought immediately.
I .began to eat the fruit, so Miss Houghton said, “ It would
serve you right if they put a capsicum in your mouth,” and
instantly it was done.—Elizabeth Guppy, 1, Morland-villas,
Highbury-hill-park, N.
17. I asked for a pine-apple, and the instant the last word
of the request was spoken, something luminous shot in a curve
three or four yards long ove'r the heads of the company from
near the top of the wall opposite me, fell at my feet, and
rolled under my chair. I picked it up and found it to be the
top and leaves of a pine-apple, with no fruit attached; when
picked up it was not at all luminous anywhere, but the spot
where it first fell was marked with several luminous streaks,
which smoked and glowed like phosphorus, and they remained
visible to all of us for some minutes. I rubbed the streaks
with my fingers,but could feel nothing like liquid phosphoric oil
on the carpet, and the luminosity did not come off the carpet on
to my fingers. I smelt the tips of my fingers directly after
rubbing the luminous streaks, and thought there was a smell
of phosphorus, but so weak as to render the observation
“doubtful.” Wondering at the instantaneous reply to my
request, which was unknown to any mortal but myself until
spoken, I asked, “ Can you sometimes read the thoughts of
some of those present, so as to know beforehand what they will
ask ? ” The table gave three heavy thumps, the signal for
“ Yes.” I next asked for bread-fruit, and the table signalled
“No.” I then asked for a capsicum, and some minutes
afterwards a hand placed a capsicum in my fingers. I tried
to seize the hand, but could not catch it, and was equally un¬
successful all through the seance, during which 1 was fre¬
quently grasped by hands at different parts of the body, and
my hair was pulled many times; the owners of the hands
could evidently see to perfection; if they grasped my foot, or
hand, or ear, they did it at once without feeling about for it,
and the hands seemed to melt away instantaneously. I asked
for a South American cactus, which was not brought; a med¬
lar, which I did not ask for, was put into the centre of my
hand. I had intended to ask for a cocoa-nut, but Mr. Shorter
anticipated me, so that I had to think of some other fruit.
About three minutes after Mr. Shorter had the cocoa-nut I
asked for the pine-apple, so the thought of a pine-apple had
not been in my mind more than three minutes before the top
of one shot under my chair.—William H. Harrison, Wilmin-
villa, Chaucer-road, S.E.
Eighteen guests, as already stated, were present, and the
evidence of seventeen was taken down as above, but one of
the visitors left at the end of the first seance. This lady, whose
name and address we have not had an opportunity of asking
for permission to publish, asked for a melon, and one weighing
4 lbs. was handed to her.* Later in the seance this great
water-melon was cut into six or eight large pieces by the in¬
visibles, and some of those assembled were first made aware
of the fact by the pieces being squeezed, wet side downwards,
upon their hands. This sudden application of some cold wet
substance, from which liquid poured copiously down the gar¬
ments, caused a general outcry and a demand for “ a light.”
When a match was struck the consternation changed into
merriment, coupled with a few protests about the effect upon
the dresses. During both seances a dog in the lighted entrance
hall, outside the room, barked and whined very much, not as
if in terror, but as if it saw strangers about. Mr. Guppy
threatened in a good-natured way, to cut-up the said dog, and
the table gave one indignant blow upon the floor, signifying
“No.” Somebody remarked, “You love the little dog too
much, don’t you ? ” and the table gently signalled, “ Yes.”
Since th.e foregoing report was published a year ago,
Mrs. Scott and the Misses ‘Williams on have changed
their addresses, but those of the other witnesses remain
the same so far as we know.
* The lady was Mrs. Dr. Davies. Dr. Davies is well-known in literary
circles, and as he has since very honestly publicly avowed his certainty that
the phenomena of Spiritualism are real, there is now no necessity to with¬
hold the name of the lady.
A REMARKABLE SEANCE.
In the back numbers of this journal several instances
are recorded of persons being carried long distances by
spirit power, the chief example being the carrying of
Mrs. Guppy from Highbury to Holborn, which by a
fortunate combination of circumstances we were enabled
to substantiate on evidence strong enough to hang a
man, supposing evidence of similar weight were brought
against a criminal on trial before a judge for murder.
A somewhat similar instance of the transportation of
the human body occurred a few weeks ago, but the
evidence as to carriage from a long distance is not so
strong, as the attesting witnesses are able to speak only
of the arrival of the medium, and not of her departure,
The following letter narrates the particulars:—
To the Editor of “The Spiritualist.'’
Sir,—I wish to give you an account of a stance, at which I
consider myself fortunate to have been present, and which
took place at the rooms of Messrs. Herne and Williams, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Saturday evening, February 17th
last.
The circle was a small one, consisting only of seven persons,
including the mediums. As soon as we had taken our seats,
Mr. Williams locked the doors, and laid the key on the table
close to my hand. There was complete silence for about one
minute, when two persons present remarked simultaneously,
that some substance of silk or velvet had brushed over their
heads, and the remainder of the party soon felt the evidences
of some human presence on the table. The spirit Katie called
for a light; we had only matches, but by their light we were
able to recognise the person of Miss Lottie Fowler, lying ex¬
tended on the table, in a deep trance, and in full walking
costume. We noted the time ; it was a quarter-past seven
exactly. Mr. Williams rose to fetch a candlestick, and took
the key from me to unlock the doors.
In the mean time the spirit “ Annie,” who entrances Miss
Fowler, was giving us instructions (speaking through her
organism in the usual manner) to remove the medium’s hat,
but otherwise to leave her alone on the table, and to continue
our sitting as before, as Miss Fowler would not regain conscious¬
ness until half-past eight o’clock. She also told us that more
people would presently join the seance, that there would
be powerful manifestations, and that Messrs. Heme and
Williams would receive a new development of mediumship.
Mr. Williams now returned with the candlestick, bringing in
with him a lady who had just arrived, and Mrs. Andrews, Mr.
Herne’s landlady. With this addition to the circle, we re¬
sumed our sitting, when we were again intermpted by a knock
at the door, which had not been re-locked, and a gentleman
was admitted.
“Annie” next proceeded to give us the history of the
medium’s transportation. Miss Fowler had left her rooms in
Keppel-street, Russell-square, at seven o’clock, to go to Mrs.
Mackdougall Gregory’s in Green-street, Park-lane. Being rather
late she had not stayed to have her supper as usual. She had
taken an omnibus in Oxford-street, and had gone as far as
Duke-street, beyond the Regent-circus, when “ John King ”
had brought her to Lamb’s Conduit-street. The spirits had
done this in order to convince Miss Fowler of their powers of
carrying, she having steadily refused to believe in any former
example to this effect, and being extremely sceptical as to
physical manifestations generally. After giving this informa¬
tion, “ Annie ” told us that she should leave the medium, and
assuring us that all would be well, departed.
John and Katie King now set to work in their most vigor¬
ous manner. Mr. Williams and Mr. Herne were both levitated
to a great height, to various parts of the room. Mr. Williams
came down in the corner exactly opposite to that in which he
went up, thus having been carried over the heads of the sitters,
whose chairs were placed too close to the wall to admit of any
one passing on foot. Miss Fowler’s boots and stockings were
taken off, and her feet covered over by the coats of the
mediums, which were removed while their hands were held
on each side.
In this manner the time wore on, and it must have been
about a quarter past eight, when I began to feel my hand
pulled continually by a small spirit hand. The same hand
presently tried to draw me by the shoulder, and soon I felt
impelled to raise myself on to the table by the side of Miss
Fowler. In another moment I was leaning over her with my
arms stretched on her arms, and my mouth to her mouth (after
the manner of Elisha with the Shunamite’s son) and breath¬
ing into it with far more than all the ordinary power of my
own lungs. She resisted me strongly at first, but John King
encouraged me to go on, saying, “ It’s all right; she does’nt
want to come back, but she must’nt go to heaven yet.” This
went on for about seven or eight minutes, when Miss Fowler
sat up, and after we had struck a light, opened her eyes—in
ntter .amazement at her situation. Her first words were :
“Where am I? I was going to Mrs. Gregory’s.” The time
was half-past eight exactly.
When Miss Fowler was sufficiently recovered to tell her own
story, it corresponded in every respect with that related by the
spirit Annie, up to the point at which the omnibus had passed
the Regent-circus, after which Miss Fowler said that she could
remember nothing more, except feeling very sick, yet she re¬
mained quite incredulous all the evening as to the means of
her transport into our midst. I have since heard from Miss
Fowler herself that she is now convinced she was carried there
by spirit-power.
This is a long letter, but I should like to point out one or
two things which seem to me worthy of note. First, Messrs.
Herne and Williams had both felt extreme exhaustion all the
previous afternoon. Secondly, the removal of Miss Fowler’s
boots and stockings was probably not a mere manifestation of
spirit-power, but was necessary to allow the blood to circulate
more freely. Thirdly, all the details given by “Annie ” as to the
proceedings of that evening, with regard to the future as well
as the past, and to the other mediums as well as her own, were
all equally verified ; the new development being the appear¬
ance for the first time of a name faintly visible in blood-red
letters, on the back of the hand of both Mr. Herne and Mr.
Williams. Emily Kislingbury.
93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
In the course of a letter published in The Medium
newspaper of February 23rd, 1872, Mr. H. Clifford
Smith says of this seance
“ At the usual time I went to the house of Messrs. Heme
and Williams, to attend their customary Saturday evening
seance. A few friends, with whom I have frequently sat on
former occasions, were present, and a gentleman and lady
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1872.
whom I do not remember to have met previously. With the
mediums, the number who entered the seance-room (which
has been so frequently described with reference to the aerial
transport of Mrs. Guppy) was eight. Having taken our
seats, Mr. Williams proceeded to close the folding doors,
leaving the gas burning brightly in the front room. He
locked the doors, and handed the key to a lady who was
present. He then took his seat, and we waited in the usual
manner, little expecting what was about to take place.
Two minutes could not have elapsed before I felt the
passage of some drapery overhead, and directly afterwards all
fexclaimed that some person was on the table, and various
conjectures were made as to the person it could be; this
could only be decided when a light was obtained, when I,
who was nearest to her face, recognised her as Miss Lottie
Fowler. She was in a deep trance. The pulse, however,
which I felt immediately, was full, but rapid and fluttering,
as a person’s under the influence of great excitement.
Afterwards this subsided, and became gradually weak and
feeble, but rapid, as in a person in an extreme state of
exhaustion.
During her trance, she was frequently influenced by/ a
spirit, “Annie,” who spoke distinctly in her own charac¬
teristic way, and endeavoured to describe the manner in
which she was brought. She stated that her medium would
sleep and remain in the trance condition until half-past
.eight, but that we were to continue sitting and wait for
further manifestations. It would take me too long to enter
into all the interesting particulars of the stance, or of the
conversation held with “Annie.” Suffice it to say that Miss
Fowler with some difficulty recovered consciousness at half-
past eight precisely. The time, which I carefully noted,
when she was so suddenly brought into our midst was a
quarter-past seven.
■ Miss Fowler, when she awoke from her trance, became
exceedingly excited—would not credit what had happened.
When she came sufficiently to herself she gave the same
account of herself which the spirit “ Annie” had previously
given—to the effect that she had left her home in Keppel-
street, Russell-square, at seven o’clock, proceeded to the
corner of Tottenham-Court-road, and there entered an
omnibus going up Oxford-street, as she was on her way to
Mrs. Gregory’s. She felt sick, but that was all she could call
to memory ; she knew nothing more after until her return to
•consciousness in our midst. I think, notwithstanding all her
previous obstinacy, she will in future credit the spirits with
power of carrying, not only lighter objects, but also herself.
During her entrancement the spirit gave us a communica¬
tion which I consider sufficiently interesting to mention here.
She stated that Messrs. Herne and Williams were about to
have a new development of mediumship, and that they would
•each have a name written on their hands during the evening.
•Surely so it happened, for when a light was obtained, each
had a name written on the skin of the hand and arm in blood-
red letters. The following morning Mr. Williams called to
see me, and whilst we were conversing about the matter, the
name of a dear friend of mine in spirit-land gradually ap¬
peared on the back of his hand.”
Miss Lottie Fowler is a trance-medium—not a phy¬
sical-medium—and as solid objects are not moved about
through her mediumship, it would seem to be probable
that she was made to walk to Lamb’s Conduit-street in
the trance state. Once in the house, the spirits might
;:float her or pass her through doors and walls, just as
they do Messrs. Herne and Williams. The house a
medium lives in constantly, seems to be charged with
some, kind of spirit influence within which the spirits
have more power over common matter than they have
outside the range of the influence. We have often
been present at Messrs. Herne and Williams’s seances,
‘when solid objects have been brought to the circle by
Spirits, and twice we have been present there when
solid objects have disappeared in a strong light. In the
one case a pair of earrings belonging to a lady from
Manchester fell near the centre of the large table, and
instantly vanished before the eyes of those members of
the circle who saw them fall. They clattered on the
polished wood surface, and vanished instantly, and
were fastened in the ears of another lady present later
in the evening. On another occasion, in broad day¬
light, we saw an umbrella vanish. It was at the
further end of the room with nobody within some yards
of it; Mr. Herne, who sat by us, gave a slight shiver,
and the umbrella vanished instantly. Supposing Miss
Lottie Fowler disappeared in this way, it must have
been startling to the people in the omnibus, but from
her not being a physical medium, it may be more pro¬
bable that she walked to Lamb’s Conduit-street in the
trance state. If so, how did she get into the house ?
We have asked Mr. Andrews (of whom Messrs. Herne
and Williams rent their chambers), and he says that
neither he, nor Mrs. Andrews, nor the servant, let her
in, or saw her, till after she was found in the seance
room. Of the perfect honesty and good faith of Miss
Fowler in her statement of what she knows, there is no
doubt, and during her stay in England she has made
many friends among Spirituahsts because of her amiable
and sincere disposition.
Miss Fowler says that being a comparative stranger
in London she always pays her fare on entering an
omnibus, and tells the conductor where to set her
down. On this occasion she was travelling in a Bays-
water omnibus, and asked to be set down at Park-
street, near the Marble Arch. The conductor wore a
light coat and had high boots over his trousers. Mrs.
Edmiston of Beckenham was one of the witnesses
present when she arrived at the seance at Lamb’s Con-
fluit-street.
The February number of the Spiritual Magazine con-
-tained a very good reply to the attack upon Spiritualism made
•by the Rev. John Jones, of Liverpool. This reply is also
published as a pamphlet by Mr. Burns, and is useful for distri¬
bution among theologians.
THE MATERIALISING OF THE BODIES OF
SPIRITS.
The Spiritualist of January 15th contained a very
long account of how the spirits are materialising their
bodies regularly at seances in America, so as to be seen
by a large body of observers, and at the same time
recognised by their friends. These manifestations are
obtained at the house of Mr. Keeler, a farmer, in
Moravia, New York State, through the mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews. In our last we mentioned that Miss
Hay, who two years ago was well known to most
London Spiritualists, had visited the Keelers’, and seen
the spirit of her mother and other relatives. Her letter
on the subject was written to Mr. Andrew Leighton, a
gentleman well known and much respected in Liver¬
pool, and he has sent it to us for the publication of
those portions which relate to the spiritual manifesta¬
tions. We omit those parts which are of a private
nature:—
36, Edinburgh-street, Boston, Massachusetts,
November 22,1871.
Mv hear Mr. Leighton, ... Now I turn to a happier sub¬
ject, as heaven is a higher state than the earthly one. 'A friend
accompanied me to Moravia, where we remained a week in
the farmhouse where spirits appear in a cabinet in the light,
showing their faces, arms, hands, &c., as nearly resembling
those of their mortal form as conditions and elements drawn
from us admit. You have read about it all, no doubt, in the
Banner of Light, so remembering your kind interest in my
own case, I will now tell you who I saw and talked to. My
precious mother came on two occasions; she could not speak
the first time, but others said they would have at once recog¬
nised her if I had not been present, from the resemblance of
her features to mine. She put out her hand and arm in a
night-dress sleeve, but the first signal of her presence was a
hand with gold spectacles in it. Another day I had the deep,
deep joy, not only of seeing her, but hearing her words of love
and counsel from her lips. She advanced to the aperture,
and, when I recognised her, said : “ Mary, will you forgive
and forget ? ” I assured her that there was nothing remaining
but love in my heart for her, and abundance of it, adding—
“ My darling mother, you understand me now, don’t you ? ”
She rephed,—“Yes, I understand you. My child, you have
been wronged, but it will be made right in the future.”
I spoke a little more with her, and she then gave her parting
word—“Be careful, Mary, and calculate well for the future.”
Then she kissed her, hand and disappeared. Methinks it was
worth while to come to America for this alone. I had not
thought of two other relatives as likely to come at all,—many,
many years having passed since they went. My aunt followed
my mother : her acute sufferings during the last year of her
life, and her patience under them, made her dear to us. She
and my uncle lived in the same town with us (Cheltenham).
She shook a handkerchief out of the aperture with blood
upon it; then she appeared holding it to her nose. I was
impressed to ask (no one else recognised her), “Is it Aunt
Hay?” A hand moving the fingers was the sign of assent,
and she again shook out the handkerchief with three large
stains of blood upon it. When I tell you that her disease was
that terrible one, cancer, which began in her nose, I think
you will see that no test could have been better. I happened
to have on a cameo brooch which she left me, and I asked if
she remembered it. Again her hand and fingers moved by
way of assent. No person in the house, nor, I believe, in
America, knew that I had an aunt Anne Hay who died of that
disease, the last of a series of marked afflictions through life.
She had a very powerful and fine mind. . . . “John Brown”
showed himself plainly, and talked to us often. He said that
the abolition of slavery was all the result of his first step for
which he was hanged. We were greatly pleased with the
owner of the farmhouse and his good wife, whom the spirits
have chosen for this great work. All is in the rough there
externally; but one cares nothing for that at so sacred a spot.
The medium is often tired of her work, and not so much
interested in it as the old people. The spirits say they will
soon be able to do without mediums, and we shall see them
face to face in the humblest cottages. I must close in a hurry,
with much sisterly love, dear Mr. Leighton, to one and all
known to me in England.—.Faithfully yours, Marx Hay.
My cousin (by marriage, too,) manifested at Moravia, and
I instantly recognised her countenance—saw her lips moving
when giving her name and mine at my request, “Mary—
Janet Hay.” She, her husband, and seven children also lived
at Cheltenham; but she went to the spirit life at the age of
forty-three. She was a Miss Weims—a Scotch family. She
showed her beautiful ringlets, and their own colour. I never
realised so much as at Moravia.
Those English media in whose presence spirit hands
are frequently formed, should sit for the faces, for this
last kind of manifestation is the most remarkable and
convincing it is possible to obtain.
Last week a marriage took place in Edinburgh between
the Earl of Caithness and the Countess de Pomar. Few have
done more good by fearlessly bearing testimony to the truth
of Spiritualism, than the Countess de Pomar.
The Athenaeum of March 2nd, contained an article two
pages long on Spiritualism. The writer knew nothing what¬
ever of the subject, and the article was nothing but vulgar
abuse from beginning to end; it therefore needs no reply. It
will be a useful article to quote in a year or two, side by side
with future articles in the same paper, when the Athenaeum
is obliged to support opposite opinions, to keep pace with
popular knowledge.
Abeaham Lincoln’s Spirit.—Mr. Benjamin Coleman,
of 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood, S.E., received a letter
a few days ago from his nephew in Boston. The writer stated
that he had called on Mr. Mumler, the well-known spirit pho¬
tographer, who told him that a lady who gave the name of
“ Mrs. Linden ” had called there a few days pfeviously to have
her likeness taken, and a spirit form appeared on the negative
as usual. She called for the printed copies a few days later,
and a lady in the reception room asked her to let her look at
the sbirig picture. Directly she saw it she exclaimed, “ The
spirit likeness here is Abraham Lincoln. Did you know
him?” Mrs. “ Linden ” replied, “Well, I am his widow.”
President Lincoln was a Spiritualist,
A SERIOUS STORY.
The following strange story is taken from The South
London Courier of Saturday, March 2nd, 1872. It is printed
in that journal in large type, and on the leading article
page:—
“ In the present day it is rare to hear of a bona fide ghost;
but the following story is authenticated in a private circle of
friends, to some relations of whom the ghost made his atten¬
tions particularly disagreeable. It is, of course, impossible to
vouch for the exact truth of every detail of the ghostly story;
but the facts are fully believed and certified by the circle
above alluded to. The facts are as follows:—A few months
ago a couple about to be married took a house in Berkeley-
square, and upon concluding the transfer, &c., they were
solemnly warned by the agent that a certain room in the
house was haunted by a ghost. Of this they thought nothing,
however, but, partly out of curiosity and partly out of neces¬
sity, the mother of the bride said she would have no fear to
sleep in the haunted room, as she was at the house superin¬
tending the arrival of furniture, &c. The brave lady was not
alone in the house at the time of her venture—there were two
or three servants also sleeping there. At the usual time the
lady retired. Nothing alarming was heard by the servants
during the night; but the next morning, when they went to
call up their mistress, they found her dead—in her bed—with
open eyes wildly staring at the ceiling. A medical man, who
was called in, could give no satisfactory cause of death, which
seemed to have taken place through some violent shock to the
brain and nerves. But the newly-married couple, much
shocked as they were by the untimely death of their relative,
were quite incredulous as to its having been caused by any
supernatural agency, or that the supposed ghost had anything
to do with it; nay, even the husband of the lady said that he
would have no objection to sleep in the haunted room, and he
at length prevailed upon his wife to consent to his making
trial of the powers of the ghost. But the lady stipulated that
she should sleep outside the room in the adjoining passage,
and that she should have the protection of a fierce bulldog
and a pair of pistols, while two policemen were to be within
call in another room. The gentleman retired to rest without
any anxiety, the only precaution he took being the taking
with him a pair of revolvers, in case of any emergency. He
also agreed to ring a bell twice should the ghost appear, and
he require the assistance of the police. About half-past
twelve p.m. the anxious wife heard the bell ring; first rather
rapidly, and then faintly and feebly. She flew into the
haunted room and found her husband dead, with his eyes
fixedly gazing at the ceiling. Such are the facts. We have
not inserted a story merely to gratify our readers, but we have
simply recounted the facts as they actually happened. We
do not believe in ghosts, and we have no doubt that the whole
mystery will ere long be cleared up ; but, until we hear the
explanation, we cannot help thinking the story a very re¬
markable one.”
We wrote to the editor of the South London Courier, Mr.
J. E. Muddock, of 121, Fleet-street, E.C., and asked him for
information which would enable us to inquire into and verity
the strict accuracy of the narrative. Last Monday we received
a reply, in which he stated :—“ While not being able to give
you names and particulars at present respecting the Berkeley-
square ghost, I vouch for the accuracy of the facts as nar¬
rated, and you are at liberty to use my name, if you think
proper.” In a subsequent letter, Mr. Muddock says:—“I
believe that in each case a coroner’s inquest was held, and the
verdict returned was * Died by the Visitation of God' ”
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
PROFESSOR HUMPHRY ON SLEEP.
On Friday night, February 9th, Professor Humphry, M.D.,
F.R.S., lectured at the Royal Institution on “Sleep.” Sir
Henry Holland, Bart., M.D., presided, and there was a large
attendance.
Professor Humphry said that one-third of our time is passed
in a sleep so death-like, that the question might he asked
whether death itself is not a sleep also, from which we might
hope to rise to a better and sweeter state of existence ? We
could know nothing about anything perfectly, but an approxi¬
mation to true knowledge could be obtained about sleep.
Sleep is the suspension of consciousness, but all cases of
suspension of consciousness are not sleep. Brain force is
exerted in the waking state; brain force means wear and tear,
and wear and tear require repair, just as is the case with
steam-engines. Sleep is the stage in which the worn brain
undergoes repair, and that he believed to be the whole root of
the matter. The closing of the flowers of the field at night is
altogether different from the sleep which takes place in
animals. In sleep there is a change in the chemical condition
of the brain. The efforts of the brain are governed by the
impulse of the will, and the nature of the impulse of the will
he believed to be the real secret of life. In chemical sub¬
stances the tendency to decomposition is, generally speaking,
in proportion to complexity of chemical composition; the
substance of the brain and of the nerve cells is of the utmost
chemical complexity, and the cells and brain might be looked
upon as reservoirs of condensed force, ready to be set free by
the slightest stimulus, which stimulus is supplied.by the action
of the will. In the steam-engine the fuel can be separated
from the machine, but in the animal the fuel and the machine
are so blended together that it is difficult to do so, still it has
been found out that some of the tissues are more combustible
than others; the fuel is mostly carbonaceous, so that the
amount of carbonic acid given off by the body is a very good
measure of the force expended. The tissues gradually become
worn, and there is a gradual reduction of oxygen, but during
sleep the tissues are repaired, and oxygen is absorbed in
greater proportion than it is taken away. Action must be
followed by rest, to keep the tissues in condition. The spinal
cord may be considered as a prolongation of the brain; the
upper part of the brain ministers to consciousness and voli¬
tion, and the lower part of the brain, with its spinal cord,
affects those actions which go on without consciousness, like
the beating of the heart and the movements of the lungs.
There are nerve cells in various parts of the body connected
with the brain by nerves, and in putting all this apparatus to
work, the brain might be- looked upon as the battery, and the
nerves as the telegraphic wires which carried orders from the
will to various parts of the body. The higher parts: of the
brain are very sensitive, hence their action is more easily
stopped than the lower parts, so the loss of consciousness takes
place easily. A blow on the head will often destroy conscious-
Maech 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
ness, without stopping the beating of the heart. Some per¬
sons can throw themselves whenever they please into temporary
unconsciousness, just the same as that caused by mesmeric
•agency. Once he knew of a case where a woman became
unconscious at once when she was touched on a certain
part of her hand; she then became utterly insensible till
she chose to come round of her own accord (laughter), for
some people have the power of stopping the working of the
upper part of the cerebral hemisphere. It might be thought
that the heart worked throughout life and had no period of
rest for repairs, but there is a pause in its motion between
•each beat; in the working of the muscles there is an action
up and down the line of muscular vibration, so that all parts
•of the fibres are not in motion at the same time; thus each
part has a momentary period of rest. He knew a man who
.jerked his arms and limbs about constantly, but was never
tired; he was tired only when he. tried to stop the jerks, and
•the alternating action along the internal parts of the muscles,
••explained why he was not tired. But the action of the brain
is continuous.; if it were not so, we might get run over in
•crossing a street, and be. liable to all kinds of accidents,
therefore the brain must have a prolonged period of rest at
other times. If the brain is examined during sleep, it is less
• swollen than at other times, and less turgid with blood; the
blood current is diminished during sleep, because then the
function of the brain is stopped, and repair alone is required.
There are artificial methods of producing sleep, such, for
instance, as by mesmeric passes, or doses of opium, or chloro¬
form ; carbonic acid first produces sleep, and afterwards death;
so this is perhaps the easiest death of all. Carbonic acid
given off from the lungs of people in a lecture-room is
breathed by their neighbours, so tends to produce sleep; hence
one necessity for good ventilation in public buildings. Sleep
should be earned by a good conscience, and good honest occu¬
pation ; the Duke of Wellington and other industrious men
•could go to sleep when and where they pleased, at any moment,
and it is no wonder that people who do not work complain
that' they cannot sleep. It is better for health to work early
in the day than late at night. In going to sleep, the dropping
of the eyelids is the first indication of the will losing its con¬
trol over the muscles, and the electro-biologist in trying the
sensitiveness of his subjects^ first tries whether they have
lost control of the muscles of the eyelids; if not, he knows
it is no use trying his power over any others. There is a
curious action in the case of birds; for the reason why a bird
•does not fall from its perch during sleep, is that there is a con¬
tinuous action of its muscles throughout the night; if it were
not for the action of its muscles, a fish would turn bottom
upwards during sleep ; a pike asleep does not shut its eyes,
for it has no eyelids ; its fins look motionless, but there is a
slight movement of its gills. This stillness of animals during
sleep is one great source of protection from danger at that
time. There is a half-waking state in which thought is very
active, and in which Newton and Coleridge once performed
great mental operations which they could not do while fully
•awake; this state of mind is very wearing, and in it there is
no consciousness of the true lapse of time. Dreaming is
merely a stage beyond the half-waking state, and curiously
•enough, whatever occurs in a dream never occasions any sur¬
prise, however fantastic the vision. Memory often acts power¬
fully in dreams. In the case known as the Red Barn murder,
Maria Martin had been killed, and nobody knew what had
become of the missing woman; her mother dreamt three
nights running that she had been murdered, and buried in a
particular part of the barn ; her body was then found there,
and her murderer hanged. The probability is that the mother
had seen something in her waking state which drew her atten¬
tion to the spot, and which she afterwards recollected while
in the dream state. He thought that in sleep there was a
lowering of the function of the whole brain, and that in
dreams the whole of the brain was disturbed.
It was a good lecture, listened to with much interest.
Dr. Rutherford has continued his excellent lectures on the
Nervous System, and we shall give a somewhat long report
next month.
Mu. Teubner has just published a sensibly-written book
on vital theological points ; it is entitled “ Truth v. Ecclesias¬
tical Dogma.”
Ik our list of names printed last month of the members
of the present Council which has so seriously committed the
Royal Society, we omitted the name of Professor W. H. Miller,
M.A., LL.D., 7, Scroope-terrace, Cambridge.
Theee weeks ago a friendly tea-meeting was held in re¬
cognition of the good work done by Mr. Cogman, the medium,
•on behalf of Spiritualism. He was also presented with a purse
of money on the occasion.
A Spiritualistic Soiree.—On Saturday evening, Feb¬
ruary 24th, a social gathering for the benefit of Messrs. Herne
and Williams was held in their chambers, at 61, Lambs Con¬
duit-street, Holborn, W.C. There was a moderately good
attendance of visitors. The proceedings began with tea and
refreshments, after which there was an' amateur concert. Mr.
B. Lamb, and Mr. W. Edminston, gave a flute duet consist¬
ing of airs from Dun Giovanni; this was followed by the
song Alice, where art thou? (Ascher), by Mr. Myers. Mr.
Frank Herne then gave a recitation from Hamlet; next came
the song When lovers say good night (Claribel), by Mr. Myers,
■also The Power of Love, by Mrs. Heebie, and Wonderland,
(Schubert), by Miss E. Kislingbury. The following chorus,
Now pray we for our country (Eliza Flower), was sung first as
•a quartett and then repeated as a chorus by the whole com¬
pany :—
“Now pray we for our country—
That England long may he,
The holy, and the happy,
And the gloriously free.
“ Who hlesseth her is blessed;
May peace be in her walls,
And joy in all her cottages,
Her palaces and halls.”
'Lastly, Mr. H. Clifford Smith gave a comic recitation, con¬
sisting of a sermon in which a priest enforced upon his lis¬
teners the circumstance that the text “ He who giveth to the
poor, lendeth to the Lord,” had been badly translated, and that
the Council of Trent had decided that, “ He who giveth to the
clergy, lendeth to the Lord,” was pure and undiluted Scripture.
All these pieces were rendered very creditably, some little time
and pains having been previously expended in getting them
•up. Much of the enjoyment of the evening was due to the
care taken by Mrs. Edminston and Miss. Kislingbury in
making the preparations. After the amateur singing and
■music, there was a seance in which the voice manifestations
were good ; the spirits John and Katie King were particu¬
larly lively, and gave some of the visitors some information,
about their private affairs, speaking to them on subjects of
which nobody else in the room had any knowledge.
DR. CARPENTER ON BLUSH-WRITING.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Secretary to the Dalston So¬
ciety of Enquirers into Spiritualism, has forwarded the
following correspondence to us for publication:—
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
5th March, 1872.
Dr. W. B. Carpenter, M.D., F.R.S., &c. &c.
Dear Sir,—Messrs. Herne and Williams, media, of 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, W.C., apparently are beginning to
have manifestations whereby names appear and disappear
upon their flesh like a blush. In your article on “ Spiritualism
and its recent Converts,” in the Quarterly Review, you state
that “ the trick by which the red letters were produced was
discovered by the enquiries of our medical friends.” Now, as
one of the objects of this Association is to collect well authen¬
ticated facts affecting Spiritualism, perhaps you will kindly
inform us of the nature of the discoveries of your medical
friends.
The Committee will thank you to favour them with an
early reply for submission at their next meeting, in order that
if a fraud is being perpetrated, publicity may be given to the
same in the next issue of the Spiritualist newspaper, and thus
serve the interests of truth and protect the public from
imposture.—I am, dear Sir, yours faithfully,
Thomas Blyton, Secretary and Treasurer.
56, Regent’s Park-road, N.W.
6th March, 1872.
Sir,—I am sorry to. appear discourteous in not replying to
your question; but as it is based on an assumption which
you have no right to make, and which has brought upon me
charges of deliberate falsehood and other heinous moral
offences which I do not choose to degrade myself by refuting,
I must decline to hold any communication with you in regard
to it.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
Thomas Blyton, Esq. William B. Carpenter.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.R.S., 8th March, 1872.
56, Regent’s-park-road, N.W.
Sir,—I have to acknowledge receipt of your letter of
6th inst. in reply to mine of 5th inst., which shall be duly
submitted to our committee at their next meeting.
Permit me to ask whether you mean that it is an assumption
that you wrote the Quarterly Review article referred to ?—as,
in addition to its being already publicly known that such is
the case, and no secret, in your communication to the
Dialectical Society you state yourself to be the author of the
first article in the Quarterly on Mesmerism ; and the author
of the article on Spiritualism in the Quarterly Review states
that'he is also, the author of the aforesaid article on Mes¬
merism ; therefore you have announced yourself to be the
writer thereof.
I trust that this technical and purely personal objection will
not, on further consideration, deter you from the duty of
exposing the trickery of certain spurious spiritual manifesta¬
tions within your knowledge ; and ihat on public grounds,
and for the public benefit, you will not protect the impostor
or impostors you know of by withholding the details asked for
in our communication to you of the 5th inst.
Your kind reply by as early post as possible will oblige,
Sir, your obedient Servant, Thomas Blyton,
Secretary, fyc.
56, Regent’s-park-road, N.W.
9th March, 1872.
Sib,—It is generally believed that Professor Seeley is the
author of “ Ecce Homo,” and he has never denied, any more
than he has admitted, the imputation. But thiswould give no
ground whatever to anyone to attack him personally as the
author of a book which Lord Shaftesbury publicly characte¬
rised as “ one of the worst that was ever vomited forth from
the jaws of hell.” And if any one did so attack him, he
would be held entirely excused from replying.
Again, I have at present in hand an article for the Edin¬
burgh Review, in which “ We ” shall make frequent reference
to a previous article written by Sir H. Holland for the same
Review in 1857, and since published by him with his name.
Yet, on your assumption, such reference would prove Sir H.
Holland to be the author of an article written by me.
The writer of the article in the Quarterly has just the same
ground for withholding his admission of the authorship of it,
that Professor Seeley has in reference to Ecce Homo. Anyone
has a right to attack the “ Quarterly Reviewer ” with any
weapons he thinks proper; but no one who has regard to the
ordinary courtesies of society can fasten charges of mendacity,
&c., upon a supposed author. And no one who understands
these courtesies can expect a person so attacked, to take any
notice of an opponent who disregards them.
If you choose to ask me, as a physiologist who is known to
have attended to the so-called spiritual manifestations, what
explanation I can give of the blush-writing, and will engage
to make nothing public that shall compromise me, I will tell
you what I know on the subject.—Your obedient servant,
William: B. Carpenter.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism.
(Established 1870.)
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.,
11th March, 1872.
Db. Cabpentee, M.D., F.R.S., &c.,
56, Regent’s-park-road, N.W.
Sib,—The question of literary courtesy referred to in your
communication of the 9th inst., in reply to mine of the pre¬
vious day, I presume rests with the daily newspapers, which
first authoritatively announced you to be the author.
Our committee will be glad to receive from you, as a physio¬
logist, any information you can give about “ blush-writing;”
and we desire you, in rendering us such information, not to
state any matter which we should compromise you by pub¬
lishing—the dissemination of information being, as I inti¬
mated in my first letter, our object in writing to you. Perhaps
you will therefore omit names of persons in your reply, and
give a supposititious case.
We trust the British Association will work at the
investigation of Spiritualism, and that the recent warm dis¬
cussions will be forgotten by all parties concerned therein.
Awaiting the favour of your early reply, I am, Sir, your
obedient servant, Thomas Blyton,
Secretary, <£x.
56, Regent’s Park-road, N.W., March, 13,1872.
Sir,—You ask on behalf of a Committee of Enquirers
whether I can, as a physiologist, throw any light on the
“ blush writing,” now being exhibited by certain professed
spiritualists.
This subject excited much attention in medical circles a few
years ago, when the “ blush writing ” was exhibited by Mr.
Foster, the American “ medium.”
I was at first disposed to think that the “blush ” might be
produced by a strong impression on the mind of the “ medium,”
analogous to that which produces the “ stigmata ” in cases
similar to that of Louise Lateau, of which you will find an
account in Macmillan’s Magazine for April last. My know¬
ledge of what strong mental impressions undoubtedly will effect,
made me think such a manifestation by no means impossible.
But a much less recondite explanation was afterwards
given.
If letters or figures are traced with any pointed instrument
upon a smooth tense skin (such as that of the fore-arm usually
is in plump subjects), and its surface be then rubbed with the
fingers, the letters will come out in a red blush, fading after a
short time. The skin of my own arm is becoming rough and
wrinkled with advancing years; but I can produce the effect
by so bending back my wrist as to put the skin of the fore-arm
on the stretch.
Now I perfectly well remember that Mr. Foster had just the
kind of cutaneous surface that would be most favourable, and
that when he drew up his sleeve to show the blush, he rubbed
the surface to bring out the markings.
That he had previously traced these markings on his skin
is more than I can affirm; because when I saw him I was not
on the watch for such a trick. But I perfectly remember
being struck with what I supposed at the time to be a
“fidgetty” restlessness of his hands during some parts of the
seance. I should, therefore, recommend you and your friends
carefully to watch the movements of the “blush writer,”
without letting him have any suspicion that you possess any
clue to his trick, and without allowing your attention to be
distracted by those devices which are practised by performers
who desire to conceal from observation what is really the
essential part of their performance.—I am, Sir, your obedient
servant, William B. Carpenter.*
Thomas Blyton, Esq.
Lecture on Spiritualism in Hackney. — About a
month ago Mr. John Jones, of Enmofe-park, said in a lecture
on Spiritualism at Hackney:—“Many persons would not
believe in Spiritualism, but they were either those who knew
nothing about it, or were insensible to its influences. Upon
the screen was exhibited the representation of a portion of a
tree and two caterpillars; while above the branch, a butterfly
was observed flying in the air. One of these caterpillars was
supposed to be a Spiritualist, the other, ‘ a stupid fellow,’ was
not so ethereally inclined. Says number one, to his brother,
‘ I have seen the spirit of one representing what we shall some
day both become; we shall not be grovelling here among
these gloomy leaves, but clad in gorgeous colours, and fly
in the air like the birds, and sip nectar from the flowers.’
‘ Nonsense,’ says number two. ‘ Do you think I am such a
fool as to believe that ? ’ ‘ But I have been visited by one
of our brethren, who told me all these things, and more.’ '
‘ Well,’ says the other, ‘ I tell you again, I don’t believe it,
and won’t listen to such mad tales.’ ”
Dr. Carpenter on Excited Feelings.—On Tuesday-
evening, March 5th, Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.R.S., Registrar of
London University, and President Elect of the British Asso¬
ciation, gave a lecture on “ The Philosophy of Common,
Sense ” to a large auditory of working men and women, in
the Congregational Chapel, Borough-road, London. It was a
most interesting and instructive discourse, and we hope to be
able to find space for the whole of it at a future time. The
Reverend J. Doxey introduced the lecturer, and Dr. Carpenter,
after speaking for nearly two hours, said :—“ When anything
excites or troubles us, we are too often tempted to decide by
our feelings, and in such cases nothing is better than delay.
* Sleep upon it,’ is an old piece of advice, and no advice
1 could be better, because we never give a really valuable deci-,
sion when we are under the influence of excited feelings.
When we have got rid of this excitement, come back to the
thing, and see how it looks. I will give some experience of
my own which shows how wise it is never to do anything
under the influence of excited feelings. Every public man is
liable to have his actions misinterpreted. I have lately had
occasion to express myself strongly about the nature of
Spiritualistic phenomena (a laugh), and to point out what I
considered to be their fallacy. As the result I have had some
anonymous letters ; one of them contained the head of a don¬
key, with moveable ears (laughter) ; but I threw them aside
and thought no more of them. I have been charged with
falsehood, but I thought it better to put up with it, and that is
the best line of action for every man who stands up for that
which is right and true (applause). If a friend who ought to
know me better has misinterpreted my motives when 1 have
been trying to do a kind action in a kind way, I go to bed and
I feel pained, and I cannot help my mind dwelling upon it.
I resolve that I will not think about it, but my mind will
dwell upon it, and I think, ‘ What shall I do to put this right ? ’
After an hour or so I get out of bed, go to my desk, write a
letter, say my whole say, say all I have to say, put the letter
in my desk, go to bed, then I can sleep. I have discharged
myself, so to speak. The next day, when I. take up the letter,
my judgment is in a much better condition. I, take up the
letter and look at it, sometimes with my wife; in three cases
out of four the letter is torn up and burnt, and I trust to time
and knowledge to set things right. But the writing of the
letter in the first instance is a great relief; it works off the:
troubled thoughts. Sometimes it is exceedingly difficult to
know which is the right course to take. We meet with white
and black cases in our lives; it is easy to decide about them,-
but sometimes we meet with grey ones which we do not know
what to do with. The best way of bringing complicated
things to a good test, is to think about the subject, and dis¬
cuss it, and let the whole thing be well talked out, then put it
aside and ask for time for your decision. Afterwards give
your mind entirely to something else, and soon all the points
of the first subject will present themselves to you very clearly...
The right action of the mind depends very much upon the
culture which we give to this faculty of common sense, and
common sense teaches us to do right under all circumstances,,
also to preserve a childlike simplicity of character through life.”
* Mr. Blyton, of course, knows as well as we do, that Messrs. Herne and,
Williams have no control over the blush-writing. Dr. Carpenter’s theory
then is:—1. That the medium gets the name of the deceased person by-
reading it from unconscious twitches of the face of the questioner (see
Quarterly Reoiew).—2. That unseen by the observing questioner he scratches
this, name on his arm.—3. That it then appears and disappears like a blush!
We suggest that he do all this at his next lecture at the Royal Institution.—Ei>
22
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Maech 15,1872...
(Jlomspontjence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE EFFICACY OF PEAYEE.
Sie,—Since the subject of prayer has been mooted in your
columns, I should like to take this opportunity of stating my
own experience with regard to it, in the hope of thereby elicit¬
ing the opinions of others of your readers, and of gaining
some light on a matter which I cannot but consider as of the
highest importance.
If it be true that men are able to receive, by means of
prayer, the highest and holiest influences, and to derive from
these a strength which it is above all human power to give,
then those who deny or ignore its efficacy are suffering an in¬
estimable loss, and those who still believe in it in spite of the
philosophers, would surely be only too thankful to see so
powerful an engine of good turned to the best possible ac¬
count, by a scientific inquiry into its merits, and a right under¬
standing of its uses. I do not think that these can be sum¬
marily dismissed by the arguments put forward by Mr.
Yarley, when the belief and experience of men in all ages
weigh so heavily in the balance against him.
To begin with myself. I am extremely ignorant of science,
but I have always taken a deep interest in theology, having
been sensible, from a very early age, of the inadequacy of cur¬
rent creeds to supply the wants of the spirit in its striving
after a higher life. P. W. Eobertson, Channing, Martineau,
and Fox helped me a little, but they failed to satisfy me after
a time, and I believe now that I became something very like
an Atheist. Then came Spiritualism, and though it was first
presented to me in its free-thinking aspect, the burden of all
the first teaching of the spirits to me was, to my unfeigned
astonishment, prayer. I tried it in blind faith, for it was to
me incomprehensible, and I must say that the result was most
beneficial to my state of mind.
So far is only the experience of thousands, but the following
appears to me significant. I am continually impressed, or, I
may say, impelled (by a force exterior to myself), when in a
spirit-circle, particularly if there is any disturbing influence,
to hold up my arms vertically for a considerable time, during
which I can distinctly feel a stream of something passing to
and from the finger-points; I am then generally forced to
pray, either aloud or silently, but whether I use words or no,
I always feel a prayerful influence, which sometimes extends
to those nearest to me. Sometimes I have had to remain so
long in this position that I have been obliged to ask the person
sitting next to me to stand up and support my arms from
behind as long as the influence remained. Occasionally it
happens, when at my ordinary occupations, that I am sud¬
denly impressed to go into a room by myself, and stand in
this attitude of prayer for some time, while the name of some
friend is suddenly brought to my mind whom I have after¬
wards remembered, or discovered to have been in bodily or
mental distress. The same thing happens in the case of un-
happy spirits, who come to me to pray for them. I have
never been able to ascertain whether the persons in question
have been benefitted, except in one instance, where danger
had only been foretold by a spirit; whether it was averted by
this means I cannot tell.
I would only suggest whether it is not possible for influence
of some kind to be conveyed from one person to another, even
at a distance, that influence being first received by the medium
through the act of prayer ? Christ and His Apostles lifted up
their Imnds in prayer ; and so long as Moses, on a certain oc¬
casion, kept his arms raised, the Jews are said to have re¬
ceived power to prevail over their enemies. Does it not seem
that those ancient mediums attached some significance to the
attitude as well as to the act ?
I will not speak of the value of prayer as a relief and com¬
fort in sorrow, and in every kind of mental distress, because
that would be even more unscientific than what I have already
too diffusely stated ; but I hope we shall hear more of this
subject from you or some of your readers, because I am sure
you are among those who believe that there are still some
things in heaven and earth which philosophers have not found
out. Adamanta.
Sie,—Mr. Yarley’s article, headed as above, conveying the
idea that prayer is useless, and inserted in The Spiritualist
last month ; conveyed conclusions to the mind of the reader so
at variance with my personal experience, that in the interests
of “ that which is,” was, or will be, I feel it my duty to so
aver, as one who has been in the thick of Spiritualistic pheno¬
mena for very many years. It is painful to allude to self, but
for once it must be so. I am the father of a very large family.
A delicate constitution on my late wife’s side has entailed
domestic sorrows, from sicknesses and deaths, which may be
somewhat understood when the passing away of eight children
and a wife are thought of. I have never yet prayed to a
spirit, but I have often, often, to the Being called “ Our
Father ” in hours of intense anguish, in times of uncertainty
as to which plan I ought to adopt, and I have had clear, distinct
answers—guidance. Frequently the directions given have been
at variance with my reason, yet I have done as directed,
and found afterwards that, though my reason was just, yet my
knowledge was imperfect; that the directing power knew that
which I knew not. In no case have I been misled when I have
heartily adopted the method in use in olden days by the men
called prophets—apostles, as related in that text-book of
Spiritualism, “ The Bible.”
I am as ignorant of the nature and powers of the Infinite, as
I am of the nature and powers of some of the natural elements
around me ; but I have evidence that both exist. To deny,
because I am ignorant, would not be wise.
Mr. Yarley refers to the prayers of the people in the case of
the Prince of Wales having so little effect. I much regret the
want of breadth in Mr. Yarley’s views. Our Father ” carries
out His movements as a parent. A father governs his “ Yes ”
and his “ No ” to his child as he thinks best. It may be that
in knowledge, in wisdom, so superior to his child, he sometimes
resists the importunity, because he perceives the evil that
would arise if the prayer were granted. There are requests the
parent sometimes reluctantly grants that somewhat injure, so
as to give experience to the urging one. At other times he
freely answers the prayer, or entreaty, or wish; and is pleased
that the daughter or son has felt the want, and has asked, as
it proves confidence in his power and confirms affection.
Inspiration from God and inspiration from evil intelligences
are well known to many Spiritualists. We men are merely grown
children; therefore we simply and earnestly ask for that w'e
desire, and when the asking is of a kind which can be
judiciously answered, it will be. Such has been my experience.
It is of no importance what relative, or friend, or Servant, in
or out of the flesh, is the bearer of the “ blessing,” as religious
people call it.
It is well known to many that clairvoyance by a finite is
true. A human spirit in flesh can in spirit see persons hun¬
dreds of miles off, declare their external peculiarities, their
phrenological developments, their ailments, and prescribe
remedies ; space seems by them to be as easily traversed as the
telegraphic message goes, say ten thousand [miles, in a
second of time. Shall we assert the Divine is less potent ?
The Prince of Wales’s illness and the prayers of so many
millions seemed to produce little action towards his recovery
to health. My own personal sympathy was like that of many
others—sympathy for the mother, the wife, the children; but
in me prevailed the feeling that a higher power was calling him
away, and that he ought to have gone. I have many facts in
private life to illustrate the bitter consequences of answered
importunate prayer.
The paragraph respecting the groom “ Blegg ” I much
regret. The life or death of that young man was of no im¬
portance to the commercial or political interests of the British
Empire : the life of the Prince was, because in the event of
his death the future of England might depend on the har¬
monious or inharmonious training, religiously and politically,
of the boy next in succession to power.
The people so felt it. If the voice of people be the voice of
God to Mr. Yarley, why grumble when the voice is heard ?
Meet and right it is that we pray according to common
sense, or according to inspiration, which is often uncommon
sense; not asking for a pair of wings to our shoulders, or ask¬
ing to have some foolish whim granted, but that, governed by
a reliance on the Father’s power and affection, we ask thought¬
fully and trustingly.
God our Father is a spirit; angels are spirits; men are
spirits; all three are in affinity. The breath of God is in us.
The wisdom, power, love, mercy, and justice of the Divine are
in us to a finite degree, if we control our physical inclinations
according to those principles. John Jones.
Enmore-park, S.E.
Sib,—Mr. Yarley has written an article on the efficacy of
prayer which appeared in your last issue. He has endeavoured
to show that the people of this and other countries have
recently tried “ an interesting experiment,” and that said
experiment as to the efficacy of prayer had proved a sad
failure. Admitting that every man ought to form his own
opinion on a subject which he understands, I question if Mr.
Varley is sufficiently informed on what he dilated upon. I, for
one, was not aware that our prayers were offered for the
absolute recovery of the Prince, and in our days it sounds
curious for any one to write as if people were labouring under
the notion that at the dictate of the Archbishop of Canterbury
knees had to be bent and hearts to be elevated.
I was not aware that anybody in this or other countries
had offered supplication in order to influence or “ alter the
plans of an unchangeable Deity.”
The last words as to the awaking “ into the daylight of pure
reason,” I do not exactly comprehend. Supplicant.
PSYCHIC FOECE CAETES-DE-YISITE.
Sib,—A novelty ought to have a pretty name. The Dia¬
lectical Society called it “ Spiritualism,” when they put it
on its trial—not guaranteeing it any more than the Court
guaranteed Tichborne.
To be a Spiritualist is generally understood to ascribe the
phenomena to the agency of departed souls. To be a Psychic
Forcist involves no such commitment; it is quite innocent;
it involves no disputes about subjective or objective or uncon- j
scious cerebration. You do something and there is the result
—you are not pledged to any belief on the subject.
Mr. Mumler has hitherto enjoyed the exclusiveness of pro¬
ducing Psychic Force Gartes-de-visite.
As far as my experiments went I was of opinion that there
was no exclusiveness in the production of Spiritual phenomena,
provided that the right conditions were present. Several months
ago in my own studio I tried to get a spirit-photograph, and I
certainly succeeded, that is, there was a veiled something be¬
sides my wife, whose portrait I was taking. It was evident to
me that it was possible, but that many conditions and probably '
many trials were requisite. The picture I got was not con¬
clusive enough to induce me to say anything about it, and the
subject was “ laid on the table.”
On Monday last my wife asked me to accompany her to
Mr. Hudson’s Photographic Studio, No. 177, Palmer-terrace,
Holloway-road, to get some cartes-de-visite. She had several i
negatives taken in various attitudes. When she had
finished sitting, I said, “ I should like to try an ex¬
periment.” I directed Mr. Hudson how to arrange the
drapery forming the background, and requested my wife to
stand behind it while I was being taken. While so sitting,
and Mr. Hudson preparing the plate, a wreath of artificial
flowers was placed on my head suddenly. There were some
artificial flowers about, and they had been put on a table in
one picture taken of my wife, but there was no wreath. Mr.
Hudson was in his dark room, and my wife behind the
drapery at the time. No other person was present. The
picture taken showed a white figure standing behind me, like
a person covered with a sheet. My wife was dressed entirely
in black. “ Try again.” Again a curious white figure with a
dark part on it,resembling the ace of spades. “Try again,”
and I arranged a curtain with the drapery, so that it could
be opened. Again a white sheet-like form, with an opening,
in which some persons trace a face. Now, in these pictures,
there is no possibility of deception, except by the collusion of
my wife, myself, and Mr. Hudson. The figure behind me is
that of a person in a white sheet—my wife had on a black
dress. Neither she nor I were aware when we went to Mr.
Hudson’s of making the trial. The thought suggested itself
to me as a mere experiment. If my wife had had a sheet,
and had stepped out from behind, Mr. Hudson must have seen
her when he took the picture. I mention these things as
satisfying myself of the absolute certainty of the figure being
another entity than my wife. On Thursday, Miss Houghton,
of Delamere-crescent, called on my wife. I related the cir¬
cumstances. She asked my wife to accompany her to Mr.
Hudson and have a trial. It succeeded. She had three
photographs taken; the first has a psychic force figure draped
in white, with the faint traces of features. In the next there
is a veiled figure and a very clear hand on Miss Houghton’s
shoulder. In the third there are the three salient points of
the handle of a dagger (which Miss Houghton wears concealed
in her back hair) suspended above her head.
Now I will not be answerable for the photographs of Miss
Houghton, for she ordered me out of the room while they
were being taken ; but as to the ghost-like pictures on the
photographs of myself (very ugly photos, and which, if I was
not already married, I would smash to pieces—but in the
cause of truth, as I am often told ), as to those pictures,
I assure those who know me that they are produced by
psychic force, unconscious cerebration, or spirits—just as in¬
vestigators may please to call the cause. They have no claims
to beauty, but that has nothing to do with science. As to
those who doubt this statement, I say, Wait a bit, and you
will see plenty more, well attested. Another effect will take
place—that whereas there are no spirit cartes de visite now,
because no real spirit likenesses have been produced, the
moment the real thing is produced, imitations will be for
sale, much more artistic than the real.
Then we shall again present Ginx's Baby to the Eoyal
Society; the Dialectical proved that he could move a table
whichever way he was asked to. Mr. Crookes and Sergeant
Cox proved that although invisible, he could press down a
scale, and we now prove that although invisible in broad day,
he can have his picture taken. All I shall add is that these
pictures may be inspected by the public at Mr. Hudson’s,
photographer, 177, Palmer-terrace, Holloway-road. Mr.
Hudson took them, and can give any explanation.
1, Morland Villas, Highbury-hill-park, N. Samuel Guppy.
THE ASTEONOMEB EOYAL.
Sie,—In your article this month on the Eoyal Society is a
slight error. Mr. Airy is entered as Oxan. He was a Cam¬
bridge man of Trinity College (senior wrangler, I think), and
for some years Plumian Professor of Astronomy at Cambridge.
The article is so much to the purpose that it should be correct
in all particulars. . A Spiritualist.
[On reference to the list of the fellows of the Eoyal Society we find its
(President described as “M.A., D.O.L. (Oxon); LL.D. (Cantab); LL.D.
(Edin.)." There was therefore no error. We regret that the greatest
mistake which the Eoyal Society has made, or is likely to make during
the present century, has taken place under the presidency of Professor
Airy.—Ed.]  
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
spiritualism: at home.
On Thursday, February 29th, Mr. T. Everitt lectured to
some working men and women at the St. John’s Hall, Cor¬
poration-row, Clerkenwell, on “ Phenomenal Spiritualism,
illustrated by some Extracts from my Diary.” Mr. C. W.
Pearce presided.
Mr. Everitt said—“ Everything in man’s spiritual, as well as
everything pertaining to his physical nature, shows that man
is a creature of wants. God never implants a want, but He is
able and intends to supply it. Man had a want to live for
ever, and he wanted to know it. To meet this want God has
given what is called Modern Spiritualism, and this has brought
to our notice certain persons of a peculiar and exceptional
character, who are called mediums. These persons evidently
possess remarkable and unaccountable qualities—both of an
internal and external, of a spiritual and physical nature. They
are what you might call mediators, intermediates, or specially
tempered links in the chain of being connecting the two
worlds. True mediums, no doubt, are bom such; and there¬
fore mediumship with them is perfectly natural. They are
not conscious of any change in themselves, either before or
after such mediumship was made known to them; and with
very few exceptions they are not aware of any altered condi¬
tion, even while the manifestations are actually taking place
through their physical organism. Therefore, they are simply
the unconscious means of connecting the two worlds for the
respective inhabitants to hold mutual intercourse, and we
think that it is a wise provision they are not at all times
permitted to know how, and by whom control is effected; or
they might turn from Spiritualism with averted faces, and
pray God to remove those gifts from them. Hence the indis¬
pensable necessity of seeking first of all the Divine influence,
guidance, and blessing; for you know not what gifts may be
developed within you. You know not what unknown powers
are lying dormant within the depths of your inner being..
There may be powers slumbering of which you little dream,
and which only require the proper conditions to be made
manifest. The utterance of the Psalmist is still true—That
man is fearfully and wonderfully made, and should you not
be one of those exceptional persons, still we assure you of the
necessity for seeking the guidance of the Most High before
entering upon this unknown and untrodden ground. For
unless yoU are well fortified with an internal consciousness, as
well as a historical knowledge, that the great and fundamental
facts of the Christian religion are true, you will soon find the
ground giving way under your feet, for it is full of pitfalls and
quagmires of a dangerous and dismal character, through the
subtle and fallacious reasonings of some of its advocates.
Many earnest friends of this movement regard Spiritualism as
a new religion. This, we think, is a great mistake. In our
opinion it is no more a religious act to converse with an in-,
habitant living in the other world than it is with one still
living in this; and those who proclaim Spiritualism as a new
religion will find it a rope of sand in their hands, especially
from their stand-point, teaching as they do, pantheism as
their cardinal doctrine. This pagan dogma was taught hun¬
dreds of years before the Christian era by the most learned
and eloquent pagan philosophers, but failed entirely to
elevate man from his low and degraded state. Upon a
brief analysis you will see that it failed then as it will
now, through the total falsehood of the system—violating as
it does, the original consciousness possessed by every indi¬
vidual ; and virtually contradicting the intellectual and moral
consciousness of all mankind. The destructive nature also of
this doctrine to all true religion is seen in the fact, that its
advocates laugh at piety, and ridicule prayer, rendering
religion an impossibility with them. The God of the pan¬
theist is not the Deity before whom human nature feels con¬
strained to bow; for if all things, (according to their teaching)
and myself among the rest, are properly God, what room is
there for worship ? How can God be said to worship Himself ?
With such a creed, what gratitude can flow from the heart to
the benignant Creator for blessings received ? What feelings
of reverence for sacred subjects can exist in the mind ? What
noble, self-denying, self-sacrificing example can they set before
themselves, seeing that their highest conceptions of deity are
centred in self, and that they have argued Jesus out of exist¬
ence, by teaching that He is only a mythical being. We sub¬
mit, then, Mr. Chairman, that if any spirit, whether in the
body or out of the body, no matter though he be a Chinese,
Greek, or Indian philosopher, who teaches these atheistical or
pantheistical and pagan doctrines, must be brought to the bar
of divinely enlightened reason, and tried by common sense ;
when these fallacious teachings are exposed, they will vanish
like the summer cloud before the noonday sun, or be dispersed
before the brightness of the light of the Christian religion,
the truths of which are broad enough, high enough, and deep
enough to meet all the wants, and satisfy all the yearning
March 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
23
■desires of the large heart of humanity. In making these
introductory observations, we thought it our duty to clearly
define our position in relation to Spirituahsm. Standing
upon that sure' foundation of Christ and His Apostles, believing
in the universal applicability of those beautiful truths taught
by our Divine Master, we have no sympathy with these .de¬
grading notions of a mythical Jesus, or a material God.
When we first heard of spirit intercourse, we were not at all
incredulous or surprised. As students of the Bible, we thought
it a very natural and probable thing that our heavenly Father
should bridge over the dark chasm of death by Mediates or
Media, and so allow His children to exchange their sympathies
and experiences. That being so, who do you think would be
among the first to communicate? who, but your mother?
who would be more likely than your mother? what love is
equal to a mother’s ? We cannot conceive that the love of the
highest angel in the highest heaven is greater than a mother’s
love: and if it were possible, do you not think she would be
among the first to return to her bereaved and sorrowing
children, that she might comfort, console, and advise them,
and, no doubt, methinks she will be among the first to receive
and welcome them when they cross the Jordan. The first
communication we received was from my dear departed mother,
and it was accompanied with such evidence as left no doubt
in my mind that it was her. Since then she has communicated
with us scores of times, in various ways, staying with us some¬
times for hours, telling us about the other world, its beautiful
scenery, and the employment of its inhabitants. She has
often expressed a wish to stay to family prayers, and has fre¬
quently chosen very appropriate portions of Scripture to be
read, and accompanied the reading with gentle raps, or more
emphatic ones, if she wished to call attention to a particular
passage. The same in prayer : when she wished us to realise
the fulfilment of the petition offered, she would give very
emphatic raps. Soon after the first sittings, it was evident to
us that spirit intercourse was too sacred and solemn a subject
to be trifled with, andrtherefore we made it a matter of earnest
prayer to be guided aright; for we felt quite sure if it were of
God, it would not only be a great blessing, but a precious
privilege; whilst on the other hand, if it were a violation of
God’s laws, it would prove a snare and a curse; and we soon
found by the nature of the communications, and the effect it
produced on the minds of those present, how to decide. We
were also made aware that as we had opened the door for
spirits to communicate, all sorts, both good, bad, and indif¬
ferent, took the opportunity to pay us a visit. But our spirit
friends, doubtless seeing the necessity of establishing order
if good were to be done through these meetings, gave us the
following advice, and in substance it has been repeated many
times. “When you sit, let it be in an earnest, prayerful
spirit, not in a frivolous one ; the subject is too solemn to be
trifled with, and only permitted for a wise and useful purpose.
Always open your circle with reading the Word of God and
prayer. Try the spirits before you hold converse with them;
if they love the Lord Jesus Christ, you will gain good ; but
have nothing to do with those who will not give you a posi¬
tive assertion that they do. Ask them the question, and insist
upon a direct answer. They cannot say ‘ Yes,’ if they do not.”
Some spirits would equivocate, and try hard to avoid answer¬
ing the question; but we remained firm, and they have been
compelled to leave us. We attribute our success in spirit
intercourse to the fact that we adhered to this advice, and
would only have communion with those who came from the
Lord’s sphere, and who would therefore acknowledge His
divinity, and try, like their Divine Master, to do good to all
with whom they came in contact, by giving lessons of wisdom
for their instruction and enlightenment. When persons have
sometimes asked silly, foolish questions, the spirits have
replied, “ Ask something useful, for if you do not put this
privilege to a better use, we shall leave you. We are only per¬
mitted to come to you for your instruction, and if you do not
use the privilege for your good, it will return upon you evil
sevenfold.” I will now refer to some of the phenomena which
have taken place through the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt.
Among the first manifestations witnessed were these. A por¬
tion of the surface of a mahogany dining-table rose from the
centre in a conical form to the height of eight or ten inches,
and a something was seen to dart from the apex by all who
were present. This occurred before the eyes of five persons,
and under a blazing gaslight. Two tables, upon each of
which Mrs. Everitt had placed a hand, kept perfect time to
tunes, played on the piano. A large telescopic table upon
which I have been sitting has been lifted up repeatedly at
request, in the presence of many persons, and this without
Mrs. Everitt or any other person touching it. The same table
has been made heavy or light by request—so heavy that the
strongest man in the room could not move it, and so light that
a child could lift it. Many scores of times a large musical box
(playing ten airs) has been placed on this table, and the table
has moved in perfect time to each tune, without any mortal
being touching it—moving slowly or rapidly, gracefully or
fantastically, according to the air played; at the same time,
raps in different parts of the room were also keeping time to
the tunes, and you could imagine some half-dozen persons
were dancing. These phenomena have been witnessed by
hundreds of persons, and commented upon in most of the
Spiritual periodicals. Our piano also has been played without
mortal contact, not only on the keys, but also on the wires.
Mr. S. C. Hall, writing upon this phase of manifestation in
the Spiritual Magazine, says —“ It was an ordinary cottage
piano; the top was covered with books, a heavy inkstand, and
two china candlesticks. They had been placed there when the
table was cleared for our seance. It (the piano) was subse¬
quently closely examined by myself and others. To have re¬
moved them in order to set free the front would have been a
work of time and noise; some of us were seated within two
feet of it. Suddenly we heard a faint, sweet melody, not
played on the keys, but on the wires; it was as if a harp were'
played, just such as I have heard from a player on a Welsh
harp, where all the strings are wires. The melody continued
for. fully five minutes; those present who were musical de¬
scribed it as of great beauty and originality. It was sometimes
louder, and sometimes softer, dying away at length into a
murmur of sounds, leaving an echo, so to speak, of inexpres¬
sible delicacy and sweetness.” He continues, P Mrs. Hall says
the touch on the keys of the piano was like a child’s touch,
picking out one note after the other, but that on the wires was
the touch of an accomphshed player—feeling melody and
understanding harmony, and especially expression.” We have
had this manifestation about six times, on two occasions far
•more wonderfully than when Mr. Hall and his friends heard
it. In fact it was almost too much for mortal ears to hear:
every one was breathless, and when the melody was finished,
a deep and solemn feeling pervaded all, for the music seemed
to touch the inmost being of all present. Very nice and har¬
monious conditions are required for these higher and more
delicate manifestations. Another, and a singular manifestation
which has very often been given, was the imitation of the
noise made by the use of nearly every implement used in a
carpenter’s shop. These have been heard by scores of people
with profound astonishment. It is difficult for you who are
now listening to me to comprehend how it is possible for our
invisible friends to imitate perfectly these noises, so varied in
their character as they are, and so dissimilar. First, the
heavy blows of the axe ^leaving its way with a crash through
the gnarled wood; then the mallet, driving the wedge into the
opening made by the axe; then the saw, cutting its way
through the smooth grain, and anon coming into jerky con¬
tact with a hard, resinous knot; then the sharpening of the
saw, the file cutting against the. steel of the saw with that
peculiar metallic screech which makes the blood chill; then
the clean shave of the plane, as it smoothes the inequahties of
the surface of the plank; then the clear, ringing drive of the
hammer upon the iron nail, so distinct that the distance the
nail was driven into the wood by the blow could almost be
estimated; then the centre-bit scooping its circular way
through the solid plank with such a reality of sound that the
crackling of the wood, as the blade of the bit eat its way
through the grain could be heard. These and many other
instruments have been used at our request with such telling
effect that no wonder need be expressed when I tell you that
many have been convinced of the fact of spirit presence by
this phase of Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship alone. Another
mode of communicating is, as you ,are aware, by “ raps.” I
do not mean meaningless sounds or mere noises, but clear,
distinct, and emphatic raps, spelling out definite and intel¬
ligent messages, affording valuable instruction, which would
make volumes of deeply interesting matter, had we carefully
treasured it up. By this mode of communicating we have
conversed with spirits upon mountain tops, and in the valleys,
on the solid earth, on the railroad, and on the turnpike road,
in the quiet fields and in the busy streets, in our own house
and in the houses of other people, on windows and doors, on
ceilings and floors, and on each piece of furniture in the
room. The latter have also been made to tremble and quiver
like creatures of life. We have also noticed a great variety
of raps, from the tiny rap of the child, hardly perceptible, to
the tremendous blows of a Herculean, which have shaken the
house from the foundation to its roof. There is as much
variety in the raps of spirits as there is in the voices of dif¬
ferent persons. We have become so accustomed to the rap of
some of our spirit friends, that we know quite as well who is
communicating as we know some persons by their voice. The
great difference between the rap of a spirit in the body and a
spirit out of the body is this, the spirit in the body
raps upon the surface of the material, the spirit out
of the body raps upon the inside — the one from
without, the other from within. Hence there is a distinct
difference between the two raps. We must now pass on to
other modes of communicating. Probably many of you are
aware that for some years we have had that most useful and
interesting phase of communicating—the audible voice. We
received this gift under the following circumstances. In
November 1867, Miss Nicholls, now Mrs. Guppy, was at our
house for a sitting, and after receiving fruits and flowers
through her mediumship, the circle was re-arranged, Mrs.
Everitt and I being placed at the head of the table, we soon
heard a strange noise as though some one one were trying
hard to articulate words. This so terrified Mrs. Everitt, that
we began to be apprehensive of consequences, the voice
coming first above her head, then on either side of her; how¬
ever, she soon, for the first time in her life, passed into the
trance state, and then the voice spoke more distinctly. The
first distinct utterance was—“ You have lost much by not
attending to our directions.” We had often been told to put
out the light, but Mrs. Everitt always objected, she being
timid in the dark. The spirit told us his name was John
Watt, and that he had been in the spirit world about thirty
years : that he was about thirty years old when he left this
world; that he was an engineer, not by profession, but it was
his hobby. He was born at Torquay, in Devonshire; he died
6f consumption, and his mortal remains were interred in the
Bunhill-fields burying-ground. During the last fifty months
we have held conversations with him, not less probably than
two hundred and fifty times, therefore you may imagine that
we have questioned him pretty closely about the life after
what we call death, its surroundings, and scenery—its
pursuits, its pleasures, its happiness, the source of its
happiness, the incentives to action, its doctrines and teachings,
and the food and clothing of its spiritual inhabitants. Friend
John has often told us that he was what we call an Unitarian
in this world, but now he believes in the divinity of Jesus
Christ. We asked him “ How he arrived at that conclusion?”
He answered, “By teachings from a higher source.” We
questioned him, “ Have you the Bible in your world ? ” He
rephed, “ We have the interior or spiritual word, you have the
exterior or natural; these cohere together, like cause and
effect; or like your natural and spiritual bodies.” I come now
to one of the most astounding manifestations perhaps that
has ever occurred in the experience of man. I cannot learn
that anything equal to the manifestation of direct spirit
writing has been given through Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship,
either in ancient history or in modem times. It is true we
read of direct writing in sacred history—for instance, at the
feast of Belshazzar, the king saw part of a hand writing on the
plaster of the wall. And also in the 16th verse of the 32nd
chapter of Exodus it is written, “ And the tables were the
work of God, and the writing was the writing of God.” The
commandments contain about 300 words, which perhaps is the
largest amount of direct writing that we have bn record either
in ancient or modern history. It is also true that many per¬
sons have had a few words or’ short sentences written. We
have ourselves, for years past, had such sentences as the fol¬
lowing, “ God bless you all,” or “ Good night, dear friends,”
or, when needing some refreshment during a seance, “ Have
some coffee,” and so on. But on the 8th of April, 1870,
friend John gave us a sentence in the Japanese language,
written phonetically, containing seven words and twenty-eight
letters. This we thought was something wonderful; he after¬
wards gave us the translation of the sentence. But on April
the 11th we heard the pencil moving rapidly, and we all ex¬
claimed, “ They are drawing! ” But imagine, if you can, our
breathless astonishment when, onlighting the candle, we found
a sheet of paper covered with writing, and at the foot was
written, “ Do not touch the paper any more than is necessary
to read it. I will give you more if the influence is not dis¬
turbed.” We again put out the light, and soon we heard the
pencil making the same noise, and on relighting the candle we
found the. other side of the same paper also filled with writing.
Altogether 588 words were written in less than a minute, which
we all know is a physical impossibility. During the past two
years we have been instructed by friend John to hold
special meetings for the purpose of receiving special
papers on the. truth of the Christian religion. I hope
I shall not weary you by reading one. It contains 467 words
given in seven seconds. “It happened very providentially to
the honour of the Christian religion that it did not take its
rise in the dark and illiterate ages of the world, but at a
time when arts and sciences were at their height, and when
there were men who made it the business of their lives to
search after truth, and sift the general opinions of philosophers
and wise men, concerning the duty, the end, and chief busi¬
ness of reasonable creatures. Several of them, therefore,
when they had informed themselves of the Saviour’s history,
and examined with unprejudiced minds the doctrines and
manners of His disciples and followers, were so struck and
convinced, that they professed themselves of that sect, not¬
withstanding by this profession, in that juncture of time, they
bid farewell to all the pleasures of this life, renounced all the
views of ambition, engaged in an uninterrupted course of
severities, and exposed themselves to public hatred and con¬
tempt, to sufferings of all kinds, and to death itself. Of this
sort we may reckon those three early converts to Christianity,
who each of them was a member of a senate, famous for its
wisdom and learning. Joseph the Arimathean, was of the
Jewish Sanhedrim; Dionysius, of the Athenian Areopagus;
and Flavius Clemens, of the Roman Senate—yea, at the time
of his death, Consul of Rome. These three were so thoroughly
satisfied of the truth of the Christian religion, that the first
of them, according to all the reports of antiquity, died a
martyr for it, as did the second, unless we disbelieve Aristides,
his fellow-citizen and contemporary; and the third also, as
we are informed both by Roman and Christian authors.
Among those innumerable multitudes who in most of the
known nations of the world came over to Christianity at its
first appearance, we may be sure there were great numbers of
wise and learned men, besides those whose names are in the
Christian records, who, without doubt, took care to examine
the truth of the Saviour’s history before they would leave the
religion of their country and of their forefathers, for the sake
of one that would not only cut them off from the allurements
of the world, but subject them to everything terrible and dis¬
agreeable in it. Tertullian tells the Roman governors that
their corporations, councils, armies, tribes, companies, the
palace, senate, and courts of judicature were filled with
Christians. Annobius asserts that men of the finest parts,
and learning, orators, grammarians, rhetoricians, lawyers,
physicians, philosophers, despising the sentiments they had
been once fond of, took up their rest in the Christian religion.
Who can imagine that men of this character did not thoroughly
inform themselves of the history of that person, whose doc¬
trines they embraced.” This, my friends, is a bare outline,
a mere skeleton of a sketch of our sixteen years experience,
which I would not exchange for all the world calls good or
great. To me it has been heaven upon earth to have sweet
intercourse with those bright and shining ones. Spirituahsm
is the golden chain let down from heaven, to draw us upwards,
or Jacob’s typical ladder, by which angels descend to earth to
encourage the heaven-bound pilgrims, and give them delightful
foretastes of the blessedness that awaits all those who are
living in harmony with their Divine Lord and Master’s com¬
mands.
In the last number of The Christian Spiritualist there is
a well-written article on Hume’s “Essay on Miracles,” written
by a gentleman of the name of Alexander.
Mb. Gebald Massey on Spieitnaiism.—Mr. Gerald
Massey will shortly give a series of four lectures at St.
George's Hall on Spiritualism, in which he will answer the
objections recently advanced by Dr. Carpenter and others.
Although he is not the man to do battle with scientific
weapons, he will bring to bear that common sense of which
Dr. Carpenter speaks so highly, and as he is a lively and
talented essayist, his lectures will doubtless be. of considerable
interest. He is supported by a committee of some of the lead¬
ing friends of Spiritualism.
A Psychologicax, Dbama :—At the present time a re¬
markable drama of a psychological character, is the chief
feature at the Lyceum Theatre. It is a drama in three acts,
called “ The Bells, M and is adapted by Mr. Leopold Lewis
from the story of “ The Polish Jew ” by M. Erckman, and M.
Chatrian. A burgomaster named Mathias murders a Polish
Jew, but no suspicion falls upon him as the murderer. He
lives much respected in his native place for fifteen years, till
one day his nerves are unstrung and his conscience fully
awakened, by the sight of a mesmerist in a country fair, who
sends some of the people present to sleep, and makes them
tell the stories of their past lives. With a dreadful fear lest
the mesmerist should influence him, he leaves the fair, but
suddenly becomes clairaudient, and hears some sledge-bells
jangling in the air, which sound is heard by nobody but him¬
self. He had murdered the Jew while the latter was driving
a sledge. On his return home at night, through a heavy
storm of snow, the noise of the bells still tortures him, and
when left by himself the wall of the room rolls away ; the
ghost of the murdered Jew is seen driving the sledge through
the storm, and behind him is another apparition or “ double ”
of Mathias himself. What with the noise of the bells,
spectral visions, and the workings of his awakened conscience,
Mathias is nearly driven mad, and after a few nights of unrest,
disturbed by fearful visions, he finally dreams that he is tried
for murder before the judges and is mesmerised so as to be
compelled to tell the whole tale, with the result that he is con¬
demned to death, This tells upon him with such fearful effect
that he awakes in the morning a raving maniac. Mr. Irving’s
representation of the part of Mathias, is about the finest and
most remarkable piece of acting upon the London stage at
present, and the effect of the piece upon the audience is very
marked; the observers listen to the chief parts with such
rivetted attention and silence, that one could hear a pin drop,
though probably few of them know that there may be some¬
thing of terrible reality in such tales, for a murderer who
chanced to be a medium, might be haunted by a revengeful
spirit, who could cause him to hear, see, and dream every¬
thing pictured in the drama. The piece is produced under
the direction of Mr. H. L. Bateman, and is sure to have a
lengthened run. Good dramas with a little of the supernat¬
ural in them, have usually been very successful; the Corsican
Brothers and Rip Va/n Winhle are examples. “ The Bells'" is
followed by a very trashy piece called “ Pichwick. ’’
ANSWEBS TO COEBESPONDENTS.
Several letters have been sent ns this month on subjects not
connected with Spiritualism. Several other letters have been
sent us which are too long; as a rule letters should not be
more than a third of a column long, and should keep to the
chief points of the discussion.
A second edition of “Heaven Opened,” with additions, has just
been published; also a biography of Mr. J. M. Peebles. Wo
hope to have room to notice both books shortly.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST
March 15, 1872
FACTS FOR NOtf-SMRITTJALISTS.
Th;e phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, mat it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM: DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Eussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject :—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., Holly House, Bark¬
ing ; Professor He Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, R.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Cully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John's-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckiugham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, m a. manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far X feel the ground
firm under me.”
Mr C. F. Varley, O.E., F.E.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Eecently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
< ■ Mr. W. Crookes, F.E.S. (editor of The Quarterly
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Eoyal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical.Society,came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work, entitled The Booh of Nature, by 0. 0.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“ There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No ;for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modem Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to he an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“ First, C challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—t'.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,18G8.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New Amei’ica estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful^
iust the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
FOR EFFECTING
BANKING LIFE, & SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES
ON GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.
Head Offices:
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices
20, King William-street, London, E.C.
.Victoria-buildings, 66, Renfleld-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, Dublin.
Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARK
It provides Government Security for the Life Premium
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses of Management, Reserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorse on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “ Surrender-values ” can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
JpEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospecuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Gr. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling, W.C.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action;—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of j;he circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered, wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
‘Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether, the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or rapsj
maymake their appearance.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may
honour him with their patronage, they can be
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d.
Trousers, from ... ... ... ... ... 0 13 6
Vests        0 7 0
Black Suit, from ...   3 0 0
Unrivalled Black Doe ... ... ... 1 1 0
Tweed Suit • ... ...   2 10 0
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street;
Aaron franklin, prEseryer of
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds'-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAXRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.O. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s.
ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF En¬
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
ESSRS. HERNE AND WILLIAMS,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.C.
R. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJ O,
and GUITAR, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
ville Road, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (comique), entitled ‘ Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. R. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of
The Spiritualist, .
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
SPIRITUAL SEANCES are held every
Friday evening, at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C., at eight o’clock. Mr. J. J. Morsh, Medium. Ad¬
mission One Shilling.
TTIOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY
JL’ OF ANOTHER WORLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition. Post 8vo. Pp. XX—392. Cloth
7s. 6d.
The debatable land between
THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT.—By Robert
Dale Owen, Author of “ Footfalls on the Boundary of
another World.” 1 vol. crown Svo. cloth. Price 9s.
Now Ready, Crown Svo., pp. viii. 120, cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Hints for the eyidences of
SPIRITUALISM.” By M. P.
London: Trttbner and Co., 8 and 60, Paternoster-row.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAYEN OPENED. — Part II. being
further descriptions of, and advanced teachings
from, the Spirit Land. Given through the mediumship
of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the Scripture
proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11>
Ave-Maria lane, E.C., or F. J. T., Mr. C. W. Pearce,
6, Cambridge-road, Junction, Kilburn, London, N.W.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
Now Ready 4th Edition. Svo. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s. 6d
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Revelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow."—
Athenseum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan. .
“ The ‘ Alpha ’ is the book of an age.”—Danner of Light.
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTURES,” cloth
Svo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d.
J. BURNS, 15, SouthamptOn-row, Holbom, W.C.
Now ready, price 4s.
The journal of the anthro-
POLOGIAL INSTITUTE OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND IRELAND, No. II. October 1871, containing
papers by Major Godwin-Austen on the Khasi Hill
Tribes; Rev. Dr. Callaway on Divination, &c., among the
Natives of Natal; Mr. F. G. N. Price on the Quissama
Tribe of Angola; Lieut. Musters, R.N., on the Races of
Patagonia; Mr. Hodder Westropp on Analagous Coin¬
cidences among unconnected Nations; Mr. H. Howorth
on Westerly Driftings of Nomades; with Discussions
and Anthropological Miscellanea. London: Triibner
and Co.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Reports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, jn'O and contra,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de Pom4r;
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Robertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr, Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson, Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiapi, L£on Favre, Camille
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home, William.
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varley, A. R. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &c., &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his
LIFE AND WRITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jbens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER. .
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMENTS
Three shillings and sixpence for the first fifty
words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
ten words in addition. When four or more insertions,
of the same advertisement are ordered, half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or. portion of fifty words, and four-
pence for every ten words in addition, each insertion.
Ten initial letters or figures count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertise¬
ments, because it circulates largely among those adver¬
tisers desire to reach, and an advertisement is not lost to
view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not
usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding. , j
Coeeespondence.—Correspondents who write letters,
consisting of personal opinions, for publication, are
requested not to make them more than a third of a
column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Contents.
Popular Objection to Spiritualism   ... %  17
The Objective Nature of Spiritual Phenomena  17
The Materialising of the Bodies of Spirits    17, 20
Unconscious Cerebration, Unconscious Muscular
Action, and “ The Dead Force” Theories ... ... 18
A Remarkable/S&mce ..; ...      19
Abraham Lincoln’s Spirit    ... 20
A Serious Story       20
The Royal Institution   20
Dr. Carpenter on Spiritual Impostors  21
A Spiritualistic Soiree ... ...   21
Lecture on Spiritualism in Hackney  21
Dr. Carpenter on Excited Feelings   21
Coeekspondence :—The Efficacy of Prayer; Psychic
Force Cartes-de-visite; The Astronomer Royal... 22
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists  ... 22
Mr. Gerald Massey on Spiritualism ...    23
A Psychological Drama   ... 23
Answers to Correspondents ... ... ... ... ... ... 23
Printed for the Proprietor by BeveeidGe & Fkaser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,.
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London and published i
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.
