AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 96.—(Yol.IY.—No. 26.) LONDON: JUNE 26j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
OTontentg.
Spirit Teachings. No. XIV       301
An Address to the Olergy on Spiritualism  303
Mr. H. G. Atkinson and Spiritualism ...     305
M. Buguet’s Spirit Photographs. By the Editor     306
Spiritualism in Bradford   ... ... 306
Review:—Drawings Descriptive of the Spirit’s Life and Progress ... 307
Extraordinary Materialisations in America    307
Apparitions *   ... ...   308
Life and its Laws from a Swedenhorgian Point of View. By William
Oxley         ...   309
Experiences in Spiritualism. No. VI      310
Correspondence:—Writing Mediumship of a Baby, 310; Reichenbach’s
Der Sensitive Mench\ MissShowers’Mediumship; Spiritualism and
Conjurors, 311; The Teachings of Spiritualism   ... 311
ParagraphsSpirit Photography; Seance at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory's ...   312
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
w
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and commonsense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societie wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OP ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Eon. Secretary.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on thefii’st Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, atthe Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelop e
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St,
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. ( Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
SUPERNATURAL PHENOMENA.
TESTS ADAPTED TO DETERMINE
THE TRUTH OF
SUPERNATURAL PHENOMENA.
Mr. Archibald Lament.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Bretherton.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs/Gay.
Trustees.
| Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. H. J. Charlton.
BY GEORGE HARRIS, F.S.A.,
BARRISTER AT LAW;
Fellow of the London Anthropological Society; late president of the
Manchester Anthropological Society; late Vice-President of the An-
thropologicrl Institute of Great Britain and Ireland; Foreign Fellow
of the Anthropological Institute of New York; Fellow of the Royal
Historical Society; and Author of “ Civilisation Considered as a
Science;’’ “.The Theory of the Arts,” dec.
“ They are more excusable who believe in apparitions than those who re¬
ject all extraordinary revelations of this kind, contrary to the reports of all
historians, sacred and profane, ancient and modern, and to the traditions
of all nations; and think the appearance of spirits are fabulous and ground¬
less.”—AddisiON.
HE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation. t
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
ectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
A PAPER READ BEFORE THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY, AT THEIR
ROOMS, 37, ARUNDEL STREET, STRAND, 3rd, FEBRUARY, 1874.
(Published by Request.)
PRICE SIXPENCE.
London: Balliere, Tindall, and Cox, King William-street, Oharing-cross.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H, Terry, 96, Russell-Street, Melbourne
and all Australian Booksellers
ii THE SPIRITUALIST, June 26, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com-
jnittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of tho true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST, JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. 3. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
VERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in [Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Q-oswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-xoad, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of. experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller, Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances ere held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application. ’
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo.
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a ne v Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
ContentsRealizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Surviva
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubnrr & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT D ALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Melnbership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, mcluding use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly,- to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—84, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
Price 2s. 6d.
LIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*#* A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
LE MESSAGED, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Libge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JL\f fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
. A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientiflc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs, Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
OOft REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
9 ””” AN EXPOSURE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
VOiLUJVIE FOUR. JHUJVIBEI\ TWEjMTY-^IX.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 26th, 1874
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten Initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising-Department'of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
SubscriptionsNo notice is taken of orders received for papers unac-
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spirittialist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'•The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S, Oadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Eichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham,- bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodrufi, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Bichmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street,
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-Jane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and tha treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XIY.
In continuation of the communication 'printed in the
Spiritualist, No. 95, June \9th, and in answer to my ob¬
jection that the creed of Christendom was impugned by
the teachings given, and that God would not be likely so to
act, while it was easy to refer very much that passed for
Spirit Teaching to a foolish and wicked source, it was
written as follows:—
All your fancied theories about God have filtered
down to you through human channels; the embodi¬
ments of human cravings after knowledge of Him : the
creation of minds that were undeveloped, whose wants
were not your wants, whose God, or rather whose
notions about God are not yours. You try hard to
make the ideas fit in, but they will not fit, because
they are the produce of divers intelligences in divers de¬
grees of development.
Think ! You say to us that we are not of God, because
our ideas of Him made known to you are not compa¬
tible with some notions which you have derived from
certain of the books in your sacred records. Tell us
which is the God with whom we are at variance in our
ideal. Is it the God who walked in human form with
Adam, and is fabled to have wreaked direful vengeance
on the ignorant creatures who are said to have com¬
mitted what you now see to be a very venial fault ? Or,
is it the God who commanded his faithful friend to
sacrifice to Him the only child of His love as an accept¬
able offering? Or is it the God who reigned over
Israel as an earthly monarch, and whose care was
feigned to be devoted to the enunciation of sanitary
laws, or to the construction of a tabernacle, who went
forth with the armies of Israel to battle, and issued
bloodthirsty laws and regulations for the extirpation
of innocent and unoffending peoples ? Or is it, per¬
chance, the God who enabled his servant Joshua to
arrest the course of the universe and to paralyse the
solar system, in order that the Israelites might revel a
few hours more in gore and carnage ? Or is it rather
with the God who was feigned to be so angry with His
chosen people because they wished for a visible monarch,
that He visited upon them an elaborate revenge extend-
* In tbe Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were
found, after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere,
to be true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through
this medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many : each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar J;o the communicating intelligenee, is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
302
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 26, 1874.
ing oyer many hundreds of years? Or with which of the
Gods of the prophets are we at variance ? with Isaiah’s
God', or with Ezekiel’s? or with the lugubrious Deity that
Jeremiah’s morbid mind imagined ? or with David’s Di¬
vinity ; half father, half tyrant, cruel and yielding by
turns, always inconsistent and irrational? or with Joel’sJ?
or with John’s ? or with Paul’s calvinistic conception,
imagined and painted with horrid phantasies of predes¬
tination, and hell, and election, and a dreamy listless
heaven ? Are we at variance with Paul, or John, or
Jesus ?
But there is no need to press the fact that Revelation
has always been proportioned to man’s capacity, and
coloured by man’s mind. The idea of God has been
throughout the ages the conception, more or less vivid,
of those who have been the media of revelation. The
implanted idea has taken form and shape from the
mental surroundings of the medium through whom it
was given. Such portion of truth as the teachers have
been able to impart has been moulded by the spirit of
the medium into an individual shape. To none has
complete truth been given, only so much of truth, such
aspect of truth as was necessary for a particular age
and people. Hence it is that the conceptions of God,
such as those we have now alluded to, are various and
divergent. Of course we and our God are not Joshua
and his God : neither are we Paul and his God: though
we challenge comparison between the God we know and
reveal, and that God who was dimly shadowed forth to
a people that knew Him not, by Him who knew Him
best, and lived nearest to Him, the man Christ Jesus.
He had received conceptions of Deity far clearer than
any which His followers have grasped; His religion was
simple, plain, and earnest. His theology was equally
plain. The cry to “ Our Father who art in Heaven,”
how widely does it differ from the elaborate disserta¬
tions on theology in which the Supreme is first in¬
formed of the character which man has assigned to Him,
and then is requested to act up to it with especial re¬
ference to the wants or fancied wants which the
ignorant worshipper puts forward!
God! Ye know Him not! One day, when the Spirit
stands within the veil which shrouds the spirit world
from mortal gaze, ye shall wonder at your ignorance of
Him whom you have so foolishly imagined! He is far
other than ye have pictured Him. Were He such as
you have pictured Him, were He such as you think, He
would avenge on presumptuous man the insults which
he puts on his Creator. But He is other, far other than
man’s poor grovelling mind can grasp, and He pities
and forgives the ignorance of the blind mortal who
paints Him after a self-imagined pattern. He blames
not the ignorance. That is no shame, so it be not
wilful. But He blames the folly which hugs a low
conception of Him, and will have no light let in on the
dark and musty temple in which that idol is enshrined.
He blames the lovers of darkness, the haters of light,
who cling to the undeveloped fancies of the past, and
can see no beauty in the simple moral grandeur of the
God whom Christ revealed, but must needs graft on to
that noble conception the anthropomorphitic fancies of
previous unenlightened ages. Of such there are not a
few who cannot receive higher teachings yet. But of
such are not you! When you rashly complain of us
that our teaching to you controverts that of the Old
Testament, we can but answer that it does indeed con¬
trovert that old and repulsive view of the good God
which made Him an angry, jealous, human tyrant:
but that it is in fullest accord with that divinely-
inspired revelation of Himself which He gave through
Jesus Christ—a revelation which man has done so much
to debase, and from which the best of the followers of
Christ have so grievously fallen away.
If there be nought in what we say of God and of
man’s after-life that commends itself to you, it must be
that your mind has ceased to love the grander and
simpler conceptions which it had once learned to drink
in. It must be that the machinations of the adversaries
have availed to reach your spirit, and that the dark
edge of that cloud which they have interposed between
your world and its God, is resting with baleful influence
upon you. We pray that we may be permitted to raise
it, and to pour into your soul once more the beams of
enlightenment and peace. We do not fear that any
permanent harm will rest with you. Nor do we regret
that you should try the foundations on which your
knowledge rests. It will not be wasted time to do so.
Cease to be anxious about the minute questions which
are of minor moment. Dwell much on the great, the
overwhelming necessity for a clearer revealing of the
Supreme: on the blank and cheerless ignorance of God
and of us which has crept over the world: on the noble
creed we teach, on the bright future we reveal. Cease
to be perplexed by thoughts of an imagined Devil. For
the honest, pure, and truthful soul there is nor Devil nor
Prince of Evil such as theology has feigned. Evil comes
not nigh him; the adversaries flee from his presence, and
the powers of evil are powerless before him. He is guarded
around by angel guards, ministered to by bright spirits,
who watch over him and direct his footsteps. For him
there waits a career of progressive increase in know¬
ledge and in all that elevates and ennobles the intelli¬
gence. He need fear no Devil, unless he creates one
for himself. His affinity for good draws around him
influences of good. He is fenced around by guardians;
nor can he, save by voluntary surrender, fall a final
victim to the foe. His is no exemption from tempta¬
tion, from the snares of the destroyer, or from the atmo¬
sphere which during his probation time he must breathe.
The clouds of sorrow and anguish of soul may gather
round him, and his spirit may be saddened with the
burden of sin, weighed down with consciousness of
surrounding misery and guilt, but no fabled Devil can
gain dominion over him, or prevail to drag down his
soul to hell. All the sadness of spirit, the acquaintance
with grief, the intermingling with guilt, is part of the
experience in virtue of which his soul shall rise here¬
after.- The guardians are training and fitting it by
these means to progress, and jealously protect it from
the dominion of the foe.
It is only they who by a fondness for evil, by lack of
spiritual and excess of corporeal development, attract to
themselves the congenial spirits of the undeveloped who
have left the body but have not forgotten its desires.
These alone risk incursion of evil. These by proclivity
attract evil, and it dwells with them at their invitation.
They attract the lower spirits who hover nearest earth,
and who are but too ready to rush in and mar our plans
and ruin our work for souls. These are they of whom
you speak when you say in haste that the result of
Spiritualism is not for good. You err, friend. Blame
not us that the lower spirits manifest for those who
bid them welcome. Blame man’s insensate folly, which
will choose the low and grovelling rather than the pure
and elevated. Blame his foolish laws which daily
I hurry into a life for which they are unprepared, thou-
June 26, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
803
sands of spirits hampered and dragged down by a life
of folly and sin which has been fostered by custom and
fashion. Blame the ginshops, and the mad-houses, and
the prisons, and the encouraged lusts and fiendish self¬
ishness of man. This it is which damns legions of
spirits, not, as ye fancy, in a sea of material fire, but in
the flames of perpetuated lust condemned to burn itself
out in hopeless longing till the purged soul rises through
the fire and surmounts its dead passions. Yea, blame
these and kindred causes, if there be around undeveloped
intelligences who shock you by their deception and
annoy you by frivolity and falsehood.
More of this hereafter. Already we have said more
than we had intended. And for myself, I hear the call
which summons me to the adoration of the Supreme,
when my prayer shall rise to the throne of Divine pity
that a rill of that consoling grace may trickle down to
your vexed spirit, and may shed on it healing and peace,
—the peace of God, the quietness of assurance and
peace. + I. S. D.
AN ADDRESS TO THE CLERGY ON SPIRITUALISM.
The following is the close of Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s
“ Address to the Clergy,” which we quote from his
valuable book on Spiritualism, The Debatable Land,
published by Messrs. Triibner and Co:—
If revelation be the origin of all human religions, it
cannot be a phenomenon restricted to a single century,
or showing itself up to a certain period of man’s history,
and then disappearing, to be seen no more. It must
be a guiding influence for all time; a permanent ele¬
ment of civilisation and of spiritual progress; as essen¬
tial to vital religion among us who live now, as it was
to the Jews of eighteen hundred years ago.
To deny that this revelation comes from God is to
deny that the Book of Nature has God for its author.
But, like everything else in this world, it-comes to us
-mediately not directly, from Him: and so only must we
receive it. Thus it aids Reason, not dethrones it: it
appeals to Conscience, not coerces it. If everything
that claims to be revelation were to be accepted as
such, we should have to admit the whole Koran. Be¬
cause men, by God’s universal law, are fallible, and
because the holiest truths reach us only through fallible
men, Reason and Conscience, God-given guides, must
sit in judgment on all alleged ''revelations—humbly,
reverently indeed, but fearlessly also; for “ perfect love
casteth out fear.” A captious spirit is especially out of
place in such connection; yet it is our right, and our
bounden duty, to prove all things, spiritual pretensions
included.
If the general view I have here offered you of this
subject be correct, then it will not suffer denial that, as
clergy, most of you have hitherto too much restricted the
circle of your duties. Overlooking what Christ said about
the Spirit of Truth, which was to teach men, after His
death, what He has left untaught, you have omitted to
inquire whether there is a present revelation; and, if
so, how far it is trustworthy—what are its character
and claims. If, as Middleton said of spiritual gifts
coming to light in earlier ages, these are still some¬
times committed to children and to persons of indif¬
ferent character, this makes more imperative the duty
to sift and to discriminate.
Many of your number are probably deterred from
entering on this task by the idea that the (alleged)
phase of modern revelation is’anti-Christian in tendency.
If, after a varied experience of sixteen years in different
countries, I am entitled to offer an opinion, it is, that
if such spiritual communications be sought in an ear¬
nest, becoming spirit, the views presented will, in the
vast majority of cases, be in strict accordance with the
teachings of Christ, such as we may reasonably conceive
these to have been from the testimony of his evangelical
biographers. They touch upon many things, indeed,
which he left untouched; but the spirit is absolutely
identical. They breathe the very essence of His divine
philosophy.
I speak here of those ideas as to which, in all trust¬
worthy spirit-messages, there can scarcely be said to
be variance of sentiment. As to side-issues and
non-essentials, it would seem that the same variety
and uncertainty of opinion exist in the next world as
in our own.
The following may be taken as the great leading
principles on which intelligent Spiritualists unite :—
1. This is a world governed by a God of love and
mercy, in which all things work together for good to
those who reverently conform to His eternal laws.
2. In strictness there is no death. Life continues
from the life which now is into that which is to come,
even as it continues from one day to another; the sleep
which goes by the name of death being but a brief
transition-slumber from which, for the good, the
awakening is immeasurably more glorious than in the
dawn of earthly morning, the brightest that ever shone.
In all cases in which life is well spent, the change
which men are wont to call Death is God’s last and
best gift to his creatures here.
3. The earth-phase of life is an essential preparation
for the life which is to come. Its appropriate duties
and callings cannot be neglected without injury to
human welfare and development, both in this world
and in the next. Even its enjoyments, temperately
accepted, are fit preludes to ’the happiness of a higher
state.
4. The phase of life which follows the death-change
is, in strictest sense, the supplement of that which
precedes it. It has the same variety of avocations,
duties, enjoyments, corresponding, in a measure, to
those of earth, but far more elevated; and its denizens
have the same variety of character and of intelligence;
existing, too, as men do here, in a state of progress.
Released from bodily earth-clog, their periscope is
wider, their perceptions more acute, their spiritual
knowledge much greater, their judgment clearer,
their progress more rapid than ours. "Vastly wiser
and more dispassionate than we, they are still, how¬
ever, fallible; and they are governed by the same
general laws of being, modified only by corporeal dis¬
en thralment, to which they were subjected here.
5. Our state here determines our initial state there.
The habitual promptings, the pervading impulses, the
life-long yearnings—in a word, the moving spirit, or
what Swedenborg calls the % ruling loves of man ”-r-
these decide his condition on entering the next world :
not the written articles of his creed, nor yet the inci¬
dental errors of his life.
6. We do not, either by faith or works, earn Heaven,
nor are we sentenced, on any Day of Wrath, to Hell.
In the next world we simply gravitate to the position
for which, by life on earth, we have fitted ourselves;
and we occupy that position because we are fitted for it.
7. There is no instantaneous change of character
when we pass from the present phase of life. Our vir-
304
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 26, 1874.
tues, our vices; our intelligence, our ignorance; our
aspirations, our grovellings; our habits, propensities,
prejudices even—all pass over with us; modified,
doubtless, (but to what extent we know not), when
the spiritual body emerges, divested of its fleshly
incumbrance; yet essentially the same as when the
death-slumber came over us.
8. The sufferings there, natural sequents of evil-
doing and evil-thinking here, are as various in character
and in degree as the enjoyments; but they are mental,
not bodily. There is no escape from them, except only,
as on earth, by the door of repentance. There, as
here, sorrow for sin committed, and desire for an
amended life are the indispensable conditions, precedent
of advancement to a better state of things.
9. In the next world Love ranks higher than what
we call "Wisdom, being itself the highest wisdom. There
deeds of benevolence far outweigh professions of faith.
There simple goodness rates above intellectual power.
There the humble are exalted. There the meek find
their heritage. There the merciful obtain mercy. The
better denizens of that world are charitable to frailty
and compassionate to sin, far beyond the dwellers in
this: they forgive the erring brethren they have left
behind them, even to seventy times seven. There is no
respect of persons. There, too, self-righteousness is
rebuked and pride brought low.
10. A trustful, childlike spirit is the state of mind
in which men are most receptive of beneficent spiritual
impressions; and such a spirit is the best preparation
for entrance into the next world.
• 11. There have always existed intermundane laws,
according to which men may occasionally obtain, under
certain conditions, revealings from those who have
passed to the next world before them. A certain pro¬
portion of human beings are more sensitive to spiritual
perceptions and influenced than their fellows ; and it is
usually in the presence, or through the medium of one
or more of these, that ultramundane intercourse occurs.
12. When the conditions are favourable, and the
sensitive, through whom the manifestations come, is
highly gifted, these may supply important materials for
thought, and valuable rules of conduct. But spiritual
phenomena sometimes do much more than this. In
their highest phases they furnish proof, strong as that
which Christ’s disciples enjoyed; proof addressed to the
reason, and tangible to the senses; of the reality of
another life, better and happier than this, and of which
our earthly pilgrimage is but the novitiate. They bring
immortality to light under a blaze of evidence which
outshines, as the sun the stars, all traditional or
historical testimonies. Por surmise, they give us con¬
viction, and assured knowledge for wavering belief.
13. The chief motives which induce spirits to com¬
municate with men appear to be—a benevolent desire
to convince us, past doubt or denial, that there is a
world to come; now and then the attraction of un¬
pleasant memories, such as murder or suicide; some¬
times (in the worldly-minded) the earth-binding in¬
fluence of cumber and trouble: but far more frequently
the divine impulse of human affection, seeking the good
of the loved ones it has left behind, and, at times, drawn
down, perhaps by their yearning cries.
14. Under unfavourable or imperfect conditions,
spiritual communications, how honestly reported soever,
often prove vapid and valueless; and this chiefly
happens when communications are too assiduously
sought or continuously persisted in ; brief volunteered
messages being the most trustworthy. Imprudence,
inexperience, supineness, or the idiosyncrasy of the
recipient may occasionally result in arbitrary control
by spirits of a low order; as men here sometimes yield
•to the infatuation exerted by evil associates. Or, again,
there may be exerted by the inquirer, especially if
dogmatic and self-willed, a dominating influence over
the medium, so strong as to produce effects that might
be readily mistaken for what has been called possession.
As a general rule, however, any person of common in¬
telligence and ordinary will can, in either case, cast off
such mischievous control; or, if the weak or incautious
give way, one who may not improperly be called an
exorcist—if possessed of strong mesmeric will, moved
by benevolence, and it may be aided by prayer, can
usually rid, or at least assist to rid, the sensitive from
such abnormal influence.
In all this there is no speculative divinity. And I
admit the probability that if, through spiritual source,
you were to inquire whether the theological guessings,
touching the essence of the Godhead, of Arius or of
Athanasius come the nearer to the truth, you might
get no reply, or perhaps the answer : "We are un¬
informed as to that matter with the remark added, it
may be : “ We do not entertain such discussions here.”
Are they not in this; wiser than we ? Up through
the mists and horrors of the persecution-ridden Past,
the common-sense convictions are reaching us that we
have no conceivable means of settling any such contro¬
versy ; and, again, that, if we had, its settlement would
not influence by a hairbreadth the morals or the welfare
of man.
Further than this, I have never, out of thousands of
communications, received one that denounced any
sincere religious opinion, whether Catholic or Protest¬
ant, Mohammedan or Hindoo. It is to be conceded,
indeed, that, in these modern revelations, certain
orthodox deductions from a portion of the Epistles,
entertained by Calvin and Luther, find no countenance.
But in the preceding pages I have taken some pains to
set forth the grounds for my belief, that until these
deductions are abandoned, there will be no religious
progress; and that, so long as they are proclaimed from
your pulpits, the Church over which you preside will
stand still or lose ground.
I am sorry to believe that the failure of modern
Spiritualism to indorse the doctrines of vicarious atone¬
ment and original depravity will cause many of your
number, in advance of evidence, to condemn its in¬
fluence, and reject its claims to be heard. Yet, if a
Wise Man of old speak truth, “ He that answereth a
matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto
him.”
Others may be staggered at the outset by the nature
of its claims. The “ gift of tongues,” perhaps, may
seem to them an incredible absurdity. Yet if it is not
incredible nor absurd in the second chapter of Acts, or
the fourteenth chapter of first Corinthians, at what time
did it change its character ?
Baden Powell deemed it an actual phenomenon,
occurring under law at the present day.
So again of prophecy. It may seem to us beyond
belief that what is yet to be should ever be disclosed to
fallible creatures. Yet in all ages, back to the days of
Abraham and Melchizedek, certain men have been
honoured and trusted as possessors of prophetic power.
Is it incredible that the greatest of all earthly teachers
> should have been heralded, more or less distinctly, by
June 26, 1874.
THE SPIHITUALIST,
305
the ancient prophets as the anointed of God, who was
to call mankind from darkness to light ? Bunsen ad¬
mits this.
Orthodoxy regards Baden Powell and Baron Bunsen
as ultrasceptical authorities. Does it not occur to you
that modem spiritual phenomena, which men so able
and so little disposed to superstition admit as realities,
may he worth looking into ?
I remind you, in conclusion, that, aside from pheno¬
menal evidence of this character, you have no certain
proof, such as Thomas had, of the existence of another
world. It is not sceptics alone who have alleged this
and bewailed it—like Shelley:
Who telleth a tale of unspeaking death ?
Who lifteth the veil of what is to come ?
Who painteth the shadows that are beneath
The wide-winding caves of the peopled tomb ?
The most eminent divines have admitted a lack of
certainty as to- a life to come, in the absence of testi¬
mony from the senses. Examples abound, but I have
space here for two only. Butler, in his Analogy of
Religion, confesses: “I do not mean to affirm that
there is the same degree of conviction that our living
powers will continue after death as that our substances
will.”
And Archbishop Tillotson, in an argument against
the real presence, says : “ Infidelity were hardly possible
to men, if all men had the same evidence for the
Christian religion that they have against transubstan-
tiation; that is, the clear and irresistible evidence of
sense.”
Hundreds of thousands feel assured to-day that they
have had this “ clear and irresistible evidence ” for im¬
mortality. Think of such a living conviction ! Con¬
sider how it stands out above all that wealth, fame, and
every earthly good fortune can bestow—the blessing of
blessings, which the world can neither give nor take
away!
I think if we only realised in what deep earnest
millions on millions have longed, with a longing past
expression, for some sure token of another life, we
should better conceive the sacred duty of investigation.
With transcendent interests at stake, can we neglect,
such a duty without risk that, like the unbelievers in
Gamaliel’s day, we may haply be found fighting against
God?
MR. H. G. ATKINSON AND SPIRITUALISM.
From the Banner of Light.
Pascal, who, though he was not forty years old when
he died, was one of those intuitional observers of human
nature who anticipate the results of experience in their
judgments, makes the following remarks :—“ The will is
one of the principal instruments of belief; not that it
creates belief, but because things are true or false ac¬
cording to the aspect in which We regard them. The
will, which is more inclined to one thing than another,
turns away the mind from the consideration of those
things which it loves not to contemplate; and thus the
mind, moving with the will, stops to observe that which
it approves, and forms its judgment by what it sees.”
It is of course the study of the truly scientific and
dispassionate truth-seeker to escape, as far as possible,
from this subtle influence of the will, and to bring his
unbiassed reason to bear upon any problem presented for
his consideration. In a recent number of the London
Spiritualist we find a letter from Mr. H. G. Atkinson,
and a passage from a discourse by the Rev. Mr. Yoysey,
and we were struck, in reading them, with the difference
between a trained thinker, bent upon getting at one of
Nature’s truths independently of his will and his past
predilections, and a thinker who is largely, though un¬
intentionally, biassed by his emotions and his individual
notions of what it is fit and becoming for Nature to do
or permit.
Mr. Atkinson, who must be now approaching that
period of life when the wise man is entitled to the ap¬
pellation of a sage, has been for many years materialis¬
tic in his philosophy. By a strictly inductive process
of reasoning, based upon carefully co-ordinated facts, he
arrived at the conclusion, shared by so many scientific
men at this time, that we have no sufficient assurance
of a future for man. Carrying faithfully into practice
the Baconian method, and ruling out all biases from
the will and the emotions, he was landed in this result.
His letters, published in concert with those of Miss
Martineau, stand as the evidence of his ability and his
fidelity to the cause of truth, as he understood it, freed
from all the prepossessions of will. We do not say he
was right or wrong in his inductions; though Kant,
the great German philosopher, arrived by speculative
processes at pretty much the same result, and finally
was obliged to rest his only reasons for a belief in im¬
mortality on the somewhat narrow and questionable
ground of a moral sense in man.
Mr. Atkinson took it for granted, as nearly all of us
did, some thirty years ago, and as the scientific world in
general does now, that all the stories, with which his¬
tory and biography teem, of apparitions and .pheno¬
mena called “ supernatural,” were merely old wives’
fables, credited by superstition or enthusiasm, but fairly
set at rest at length in the light of advancing science.
It is true he admitted most of the phenomena of phreno-
mesmerism, in which he was one of the earliest experi¬
menters, but these did not go far enough to satisfy him
that there was a new and different field for induction
transcending all that he had known in his mesmeric ex¬
perience.
But now Spiritualism comes forth with its marvellous
exhibitions of a power guided by intelligence, and
manifesting a perfect mastery of material impediments ;
and Mr. Atkinson, in the true spirit of Bacon’s teachings,
and untrammelled by the past conclusions at which he
had laboriously arrived, says: “ I will frankly acknow¬
ledge that at first I did think that I could explain the
phenomena in accordance with the conclusion that I
had come to in relation to my discovery of phreno-
mesmerism; and in regard to the motion of objects,
I think so still; but the progress of the 'phenomena
makes me pause, and I ponder and hesitate, and consider
that we are forced to accept paradoxes and at first seem¬
ing impossibilities.”
“ I am convinced,” he says, “ that the facts under the
term Spiritualism, with their correlations, put us at
last on the true path—paving the way to a true science
of man and mind, and of course in answer to the ques¬
tion of ( What am I ?’ mesmerism and its collateral
facts have heralded the way, as Spiritualists, as well as
others, are now seeing. . . . The Spiritualists have
the facts in their hands, and are masters of the position.”
All this is creditable to the candour and good sense of
one, whose former conclusions, based only on the re¬
ceived portion of the facts, were in direct antagonism to
the notion of a survivance of the actual man after the
phenomenal dissolution. Mr. Atkinson shows none of
306
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 26,1874,
that pride of opinion which a mind less large and
liberal might show in announcing views not in full har¬
mony with those he once entertained.
M. BUGUET’S SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
BV THE EDITOR.
Ok Thursday, last week, I was invited, with other
friends, to observe the manipulations in the studio of M.
Buguet, spirit photographer., of Paris, who during a
temporary visit to London is taking pictures at 33,
Baker-street. Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. Ross
Church, Mrs. Show;ers, Mr. Coleman, Mr. Ivimey, Mr.
Martheze, and other friends, were present.
I offered to take the negative myself, he merely stand¬
ing by to get the influence of his mediumship upon the
plate. This he declined, saying that the manifesta¬
tions were more likely to be successful if he handled the
plates and chemicals throughout.
After trying one picture, on which no spirits came,
he began to take another, as follows :—He cut a corner
with jagged fracture off a bare plate of glass, and
handed the little piece to the sitter, who was a friend of
Mr. Coleman. The object of cutting off the piece was
to show by the separated corner afterwards fitting the
plate with its finished picture, that the plate had not
been changed during the operations.
He then cleaned the plate and took it into the dark
room; Some rare samples of glass will retain an in¬
visible image after one picture has been taken, which
will faintly reappear after the plate has been cleaned,
re-coated with collodion, and exposed on another sitter,
but the resulting picture in this ‘instance was not one
of that nature. .
"We then entered the dark room. I noticed that no
diffused white daylight entered the room through
cracks, nor was there any artificial light by which
transparency printing^on the negative plate might have
been done. I examined the moveable bath, which was
not a dipping bath, but a flat horizontal tray, in which
the collodionised plate remained in my sight, face
uppermost, while it was being sensitised in the nitrate
of silver solution.
It was then put in the dark slide which I had pre¬
viously opened and examined, and in which it was
carried in my sight to the studio. I examined the
camera and lens thoroughly, taking them to pieces to a
considerable extent. I took part in the focussing, and
saw only the sitter on the ground glass—-no spirits.
During the exposure of the plate, M. Buguet stood
near the camera, with his head leaning against the
wall; he seemed to go into a semi-trance.
Afterwards I followed him, with the dark slide in his
hand, to the developing room, saw the plate removed
from the slide, the developer immediately poured over
it, and two spirits make their appearance on the plate
behind the sitter. Their features came out distinctly;
it was not a good photograph, artistically speaking; the
chemicals were working badly, and threw down much
loose silver deposit.
The operations all through lasted from seven to ten
minutes.
Invisible pictures may be painted on a background
with sulphate of quinine, sesculine, or other fluorescent
substance, which invisible pictures can be photographed
so as to appear in any negative taken before that back¬
ground. The photograph now under notice was not
one of that nature.
The background was the ordinary wall-paper of the
private room in which the photographs were taken, and
all kinds of spirits appear in M. Buguet’s pictures taken
before the same background.
At the close of the operations the corner of the
glass cut off was found to fit the plate on which the
picture had been taken. The spirits on the negative
and the finished prints, have not been recognised.
M. Buguet is a thoughtful, intelligent-looking man,
creating favourable impressions by his appearance.
Obviously it is not possible to say much about spirit
photography on the slender experience of observing one
experiment, but I do not knowhow to produce by arti¬
ficial means, a similar picture under like conditions.
SPIRITUALISM IN BRADFORD.
From the Bradford Chronicle, June 22nd.
Yesterday, Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, whose “ inspirational ”
discourses at the Mechanics’ Institute we noticed some time
ago, gave two addresses in Pullan’s Music Hall. That in the
afternoon was well attended, considering the nature of the
subject. Mrs. Tappan gave an address of which the subject
was “ Ancient and Modern Spiritualism.” She held that all
truth was coeval with God Himself. She denied the prevalent
idea, as she alleged, that truth was an especial gift to the
present age, arguing that if science was able to teach man
what was formerly unknown, much formerly known was now
unknown. She urged that students of truth should look to the
bibles of all [nations, whether heathen or otherwise, and
pointed out that among the Brahmins and similar races,
there were records of spiritual teaching giving an idea of
spiritual truth. It would require a long study to find a more
refined idea of the Divine Essence than that of the Brahmins.
Among those nations were to be found the powers of divina¬
tion and casting out disease. Among the ancient Egyptians
there was a belief in the one God, under the name of Osiris,
who had revealed Himself through the creative power, Isis.
Of all the primary forms of faith, there was not one
which had not fallen into idolatry as time had progressed,
but originally all were purely spiritual; and in all ages
they found that the mysterious process of carrying on con¬
verse with the spirits of the dead had been practised by the
learned. Turning to the Jewish dispensation, she alleged that
Jehovah was really the veiled Osiris of the Egyptians, and that
it was in order to conceal this that the Jews were forbidden to
speak the Sacred Name. In Jehovah they had the past, pre¬
sent, and future, inasmuch as Je meant the past, ho the
present, and vah the future. Throughout the Jewish records
they found the spirits of the dead mentioned as walking on
earth in human form, and beyond the teaching so obtained,
and that gained from the Egyptians, there was a special
revelation from the Deity. Christ, the Truth-teller, had pro¬
mised greater spiritual gifts to those who believed, and it
should be remembered that the witchcraft condemned by the
Scriptures was not the inspiration of Spiritualism, but the
unspiritualistio imitations by Persian sorcerers, who only
imitated that which was allowed. The Witch of Endor had been
condemned because it was feared that she had dealings with the
Persian sorcerers, whereas there could now be no doubt that she
had true and beneficial inspiration, which ought not to have
been condemned. Moreover, Spiritualism was the fulfil¬
ment of that ancient form of inspiration which was foretold by
Paul, the apostle, who promised the gift of prophecy, and even
of unknown tongues. Plato, Confucius, Aristotle, Socrates,
and others, had all taught Spiritualism. So among Roman
Catholic saints and priests, who had had true inspiration, amid
the superstitious mummeries of that form of faith. If Luther,
Calvin, Melancthon, and Knox were.not inspired, or led by the
spirits, then there was no foundation for Protestantism.
Wesley—“ dear old man 1”—knew that he was spirit-led. She
appealed to all to break through the barriers of the flesh and of
Church and State, and become believers in Spiritualism, which
was not new, but simply a restoration of olden purity.
Subjects for an extemporaneous poem were then handed in,
and from these “ The Efficacy of Prayer” was chosen, and, an
excellent poem having been recited, the proceedings concluded.
June 26, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
307
Drawings Descriptive of. the Spirit's Life and Progress.
By a Young Girl—twelve years of age. Edited,
with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D. London:
E. W. Allen. 1874.
This is the first series of certain drawings which de¬
scribe the history of the human spirit from its primary
liberation from the body of flesh, to its exaltation to its
highest destiny in the unalloyed feelings and exercise
of faith, hope, charity and love. Preceding the de¬
lineations of- the birth and progress of the spirit, which
form the present series, is a sheet of engravings of
objects, to each of which is attached a statement of its
emblematical meaning, so that in the subsequent draw¬
ings it may be clear what is intended when any of
these objects is introduced. Thus, we are told, opposite
to an outline drawing of a boat that it is the emblem of
hope; of a lily that it is the emblem of purity; of a
leaf that it is the emblem of earthly love.
The present series, as we have intimated, includes
pictorial descriptions of the birth of the spirit, of the
growth of the spirit, of its wonder at its freedom and
distance from earth, of its meeting with other spirits,
and so on, the drawings reaching the number of twelve.
They are copied by photography, and then by litho¬
graphic engraving, from pen-and-ink sketches, and
they exhibit a power of description which is more than
extraordinary, even were they not connected with a
history of their origin, which is given by the editor in
his introduction.
That history is as follows. In the year 1865 a
young lady of only twelve years of age, began to
sketch with a pen the scenes herein given. She had
never seen a corpse or beheld a dying scene, nor had
she taken any interest in Spiritualism as a subject of
investigation; and, in fact, she took no interest in the
drawings themselves which form the subject of this
publication, but rather required to be urged to try,
after the first three or four of them, to take the
pen in hand and see what would come. When
several of them had thus been sketched it happened
one day that after drawing some of the emblematical
figures a written message came, and it came signed
with the name of one whose relations with the
young girl-artist were these :—Long years ago he
had been the devoted admirer of her grandmother, who
married some one else, and left a daughter, the mother
of the author of the sketches ; to that mother he had
been a kind friend during her life, but as regards the
sketcher herself he had only seen her a very few times.
Some months before the production of the first of these
sketches he passed away at an advanced age, and it was
not until the message above alluded to came signed
with his name in full, that any one had the least sus¬
picion of the source of the subjects given by the pen
and ink. It is presumed that the sympathy of the
spirit for the mother and grandmother of the sketcher
had induced him to make known to their child, in this
manner, the history and the mystery of the spirit’s life
on leaving its earthly envelopment. Be this as it may,
the artistic inspiration continued in this manner for
over two years, until, as is stated in the letterpress in¬
troduction to the drawings, these reached the large
large number of two hundred and forty-eight. From
the same source we hear that their character went on
increasing in symbolical intensity and transcendental
meaning far beyond the probable powers and imagin¬
ing of a girl so youthful as the author, even had she
dedicated herself to the subject for years before. Of
these unpublished sketches the editor speaks in terms of
wonder, in which we may possibly one day share, as he
intimates that if the present series is successful with the
public, others will follow. All we can say is that
they deserve to be successful, and that they con¬
stitute a valuable addition to spiritualistic literature.
As is seen by the heading of this notice, the work is
brought out under the editorship of Dr. Gully, who
tells us that he has been the intimate acquaintance of
the young artist for the last fifteen years; that she
moves in the highest social circles, and that he holds
himself responsible for the truth of the origination of
the drawings as above described. We must add that
the lithographer has done his part of the work excel¬
lently, and the production, both as regards subject, car¬
toon, and getting up, is well worthy the attention of all
Spiritualists.
EXTRAORDINARY MATERIALISATIONS IN
AMERICA.
Ix America, as in England, the more advanced mani¬
festations of Spiritualism are matters of fierce conten¬
tion before they are finally accepted, and the genuine¬
ness or otherwise of the phenomena at the seances of
the Eddy family has often been a subject of comment
in the Banner of Light. A description of one of these
seances written by Mrs. A. N. Tupper, of Potsdam,
N.Y., is published in the Banner of Light (Boston,
U.S.), of April 18th, 1874. It does not begin by giving
a very clear description of how the members of the
circle and the media were arranged, but contains the
following very extraordinary statements:—
Jan. 22nd.—Light circle: “ Honto,” an Indian spirit, came
dressed in Indian style, and danced with a lady present until
her (Honto’s) clothing began to disappear, when she went into
the cabinet to materialise ; she did this four times. Mother
came, then my darling Hattie, dressed in pure white, with a
wreath of roses around her head, and gave a beautiful piece
of poetry; she remained standing just so that I could see her,
while an old lady stood on the other side of the shawl talking
to a young man present. Then my aunt Hannah CogsweU
came, with black silk dress and white necktie, with all the
scrupulous neatness which she used to observe in life. I could
hear the rustle of her dress as she passed through the door.
Then her son came, looking the perfect gentleman he always
was in earth-life.
Jan. 2Srd.—Light circle:—Honto came again out into the
room, and danced with a lady present, hut had to return
behind the shawl occasionally to gain power; she did this four
times; she grew smaller each time. She was dressed in pure
white, and her dress shone like silver. Then an old lady came
and talked beautifully a long time. She told them to play
something lively so that a little girl could come. Hattie came
and gave a long piece of poetry; it was most beautiful; I could
hear every word. The old lady said she would try and give a
piece so slowly that we could write it down. A gentleman’s
mother came into the room and was recognised fully.
Jan\24Jh.—Light circle: Honto came in from the dining¬
room, opened the door, walked in across the floor, went
behind the shawl, called for more light, came out and picked
up something from the floor: it was a thin shawl, which she
shook out and held close to me. I thought it must have been
lying there. Soon she came back and picked up another in
the same place 3, then came and got another from under a
lady’s dress ; then took one from a plain wall; then' went to
the glass and combed her hair; said she would go to the
door. Mrs. Cleveland asked her to go down the steps. She
did so, but it was almost too much for her. When she came
from behind the shawl she was as tall as I am; when she
returned she was about the size of a little girl eight or ten
years old. Hattie came again and gave some poetry. A gen¬
tleman took it down in shorthand. The above is only a por¬
tion of what I saw, but I will not weary you.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 26, 1874.
308
Jan. 2§th.—Light circle: Honto came and danced with
Mrs. Cleveland, who is a near neighbour of the Eddys;
materialised a thin shawl three times, then danced again till
the clothing was gone to .her knees. I could see her feet and
limbs. Soon they, too, were gone. She floated toward the
shawl, but sank to the floor and disappeared before she reached
the cabinet. I could see some of her clothing for a moment,
then it vanished. Then a tall, straight Indian came. They
called him Santum. He danced, but I could not hear his
steps. Webster asked him to stand beside the door, so that
he could take his measure. He was one inch taller than
the door. He had to hurry to the cabinet, and was nearly
gone before reaching it. He got his head under the shawl,
and that was all.
APPARITIONS.
A new book on Apparitions by the Rev. Bourchier Wrey
Savile, M.A., has just been published by Messrs. Longmans
and Co., and in the course of the first chapter the author
says:—
If, as St. Paul teaches in writing to the Corinthians, there
go to make up as the personality of man ‘ * a natural body and
a spiritual body; ” * if the Bible declares that these co¬
exist, while life endures, in each one of us; if the same
apostle intimates that occasionally the spiritual body can and
does detach itself, to some extent or other for a time, from the
material flesh and blood with which it is so closely allied, as
he says himself, “ I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years
ago (whether in the body, I cannot tell; or whether out of the
body, I cannot tell: God knoweth); such an one caught up to
the third heaven;”—and if death be but the going forth of the
spiritual body from its temporary associate ; then, at the
moment of its exit, it is that spiritual body, which through
life may have been occasionally and partially detached from
the natural body, and which at length is thus entirely
separated from it, and passes into another state of existence,
waiting patiently for the morn of resurrection, when, as the
Psalmist teaches, it will awake up from the sleep of the
grave to be satisfied with the likeness of God. (Ps. xvii. 15.)
If, then, Scripture teaches that the spiritual body, while
still connected with its earthly associate, may, under certain
circumstances, appear distinct from the natural body, and
perceptible to human vision, if not to human touch, why
should not the same spiritual body, after its final emancipa¬
tion from the trammels of the flesh, be permitted to appear
again on earth and show itself to man ? The improbability
arising from the rareness of such an occurrence is no disproof
of the fact. One true and well authenticated report of the
appearance of a departed person may give birth to many false
reports of similar incidents; but universal and unconcerted
testimony on behalf of a supernatural manifestation of the
dead cannot always be untrue. Such a prodigy is too singular
in its nature to become the subject of general invention. It
will scarcely be possible for those who are uninfluenced by
popular prejudice to believe that apparitions would have been
vouched for in all countries had they never been seen in any.'
Between two and three thousand years ago we find Homer
recording the apparition of Patroclus as it appeared to his
friend Achilles:—
“ Hush’d by the murmurs of the rolling deep.
At length he sinks in the soft arms of sleep,
When, Id! the shade before his closing eyes
Of sad Patroclus rose, or seem’d to rise •
In the same robe he living wore he came,
In stature, voice, and pleasing look the same.’*
Mad, B. xxiii. 76.
No differences in race, religion, language, or civilisation—
no argument or reason has uprooted from the heart of man¬
kind in general this deep-seated belief of the occasional
appearance of departed spirits to persons living in the natural
world. The patriarch Job and the Roman Brutus professed
to have seen spiritual beings; and similar manifestations have
been made to men in every age. The belief in them is equally
an element in sacred, classical, and modem literature. That
the spirits of departed persons might, and occasionally did
appear was a doctrine held by some of the wisest and most
devout men that ever existed.
Baxter, in his Saints' Everlasting Rest, part ii., ch. vii.,
observes on this subject:—“ For my own part, though I am
as suspicious as most in such reports, and do believe that
most of them are conceits or delusions, yet having been very
* 1 Oor. xv. 44. The phrase is not a “ spirit,” as generally so called, hut
“ there is a spiritual body,” as well as a “ natural body.”
inquisitive in all such cases, I have received undoubted
testimony of the truth of such apparitions. . . . The writings
of Gregory, Augustine, Chrysostom, &c., make frequent
mention of apparitions, and relate the several stories at large.
. . . Lavater, a learned, godly Protestant divine, who hath
written a book (De Spectris) wholly on apparitions, tells
us that it was then an undeniable thing, confirmed by the
testimonies of many credible persons, both men and women,
sometimes by night and sometimes by day, have both seen
and heard such things; confessing they were the souls of such
and such persons lately departed.
Addison, in the Spectator, while justly reprobating an
excessive credulity concerning the supernatural, remarks:
“ I think a person who is terrified with the imagination
of ghosts and spectres much more reasonable than one
who, contrary to the report of all historians—sacred and
profane, ancient and modern—and to the traditions of all
nations, thinks the appearance of spirits fabulous and
groundless. I might add, that not only the historians, to
whom we may join the poets, but likewise the philosophers of
antiquity have favoured this opinion.”
Dr. Watts,in his essay on the Proof of a Separate State of
Souls between Death and the Resurrection, observes, ” I cannot
help taking notice that the multitude of narratives which we
have heard of in all ages of the apparitions of the spirits or
ghosts of persons departed from this life, can hardly be all
delusion and falsehood. Scripture seems to mention such
sort of ghosts or appearances of souls so departed. Matt,
xiv. 26: when the disciples saw Jesus walking on the water,
' they thought it had been a spirit;’ and Luke xxiv. 37: after
His resurrection they saw Him at once appearing in the midst
of them, and they supposed they had seen a spirit. And our
Saviour doth not contradict their notion, but argues with them
upon the supposition of its truth: ‘ A spirit hath not flesh
and bones, as ye see me have.’ And in Acts xxiii. 8, 9, the
word spirit seems to signify the * apparition of a departed
soul,’ where it is said, ‘ The Sadducees say there is no
resurrection, neither angel nor spirit; ’ and ver. 9, ‘ If a spirit
or an angel had spoken to this man,’ &c. A spirit here
is plainly distinct from an angel, and what can it mean but an
apparition of a human soul which has left the body."
In the last century belief in the fact of departed persons
having appeared to others in the flesh was held by such men
as Judge Blackstone, Doddridge, Goldsmith, and Johnson, and
many besides. The latter, in his well-known Rasselas, puts
into the mouth of the wise Imlac these words: “That the
dead are seen no more I will not undertake to maintain
against the concurrent and unvaried testimony of all ages and
all nations. There is no people, rude or learned, among
whom apparitions of the dead are not related and believed.
This opinion, which perhaps prevails as far. as human nature
is diffused, could become universal only by its truth; those
that never heard of another world would not have agreed in a
tale which nothing but experience could render credible. That
it is doubted by single cavillers can very little weaken the
general evidence; and some who deny it with their tongues
confess it by their fears.”
On this remarkable admission of the sage of the 18th
century, Byron, who occasionally under the mask of levity
gave utterance to the deepest feelings of his heart, wrote :—
“ I merely mean to say what Johnson said,
That in the course of some six thousand years,
All nations have believed that from the dead
A visitant at intervals appears.
And what is strangest upon this strange head,
Is, that whatever bar the reason rears
’Gainst such belief,, there's something stronger Still
In its behalf, let those deny who will.”
And so Boswell relates that once, when speaking with
Johnson on the subject of Apparitions, the great philosopher
remarked: “ It is wonderful that 6,000 years have now elapsed
since the creation of the world, and still it is undecided
whether or not there has ever been an instance of the spirit of any
person appearing after death. All argument is against it, but
all belief is for it. The idea of the deceased revisiting the
scenes on earth, where in the flesh they had either suffered or
rejoiced, seems to have been grafted in the human mind by
the Creator.”
And in order to show the superiority of faith to reason, Dr.
Johnson assured his audience that he knew a man, old
Mr. Edward Caye, the printer of the Gentleman's Magazine,
at St. John’s-gate, who had seen an apparition. “ Pray, sir,”
asked the inquisitive Boswell, “ what did he say was the. ap¬
pearance ?” “ Why, sir,” replied the doctor, “ something of
a shadowy being.” Goldsmith, who was present, added that
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
June 26, 1874.
he was assured by his brother, the Eev. Mr. Goldsmith, that
he had also once seen an apparition. And General Oglethorpe
related that a Captain Prendergast, when serving under the
Duke of Marlborough, had mentioned to many of his friends
that he should die on a certain day—that upon that day he
was engaged in action (the battle of Bamilles, May 22nd,
1706) against the French, that after it was over, and the
captain still living, some of his brother officers jestingly
asked him where was his prediction now. Prendergast
gravely answered, “ I shall die, notwithstanding what you
see.” A little later there came a shot from a French
battery, to which the orders for a cessation of arms had not
reached, and he was killed upon the spot. Colonel Cecil, who
took possession of his effects, found in his pocket-book the
following entry : “ Dreamed or -* that on May 22,1706,
Sir John Friend meets me. ” Prendergast had been intimate
with Sir John Friend, whose execution for high treason during
the reign of William III. is so fully recorded by Macaulay in
his History of England. General Oglethorpe said he was
with Colonel Cecil when Pope came to inquire into the truth
of the story, which made a great noise at the time, and was
then formally confirmed by the colonel.
LIFE AND ITS LAWS FROM A SWEDENBORGIAN
POINT OF YIEW.
BY WILLIAM. OXLEY.
We are informed by an eminent philosophiser upon spiritual
things, that there is but “ one life,” and all existing organic
forms are receptacles of that one life. This is equivalent
to affirming that that principle, or most interior source of life,
is what mankind by common consent call Deity or God
A knowledge of the operations of this deific principle, enables
us to unravel the mysteries of the human organism, and also
to interpret the phenomena of nature. The question here
presents itself, Is it possible for us to obtain any certain
knowledge of that which exists in the interior of nature, or
are such alleged spiritual facts the mere “ flight of imagi¬
nation,” resting on no surer foundation than “ the baseless
fabric of a vision ? ” To my mind it is clear, that if such a
thing exists as exact science in reference to nature and the
laws which govern, or appear to govern, all its operations, -then
there must exist somewhere, or somehow, an exact science
pertaining to Spirit, and to what is spiritual. That the human
mind possesses a capability of penetrating into the secrets of
nature and the natural universe, is in itself a proof that man
possesses what may be termed a spiritual power; for I hold,
and trust to be able to show, that all which is contained witMn
nature, must be termed “ spiritual,” so that the proper dis¬
tinction may be maintained in our thoughts upon the subjects.
To the man of science, or to the one who is in pursuit of
knowledge, is soon presented the great problem of life, and he
deals with it as best he can, satisfied with the superficial know¬
ledge relating only to the phenomenal, or content to leave the
mystery unsolved, or what is not an uncommon result, he
confounds cause and effect, and continues a fruitless search for
natural causes, as productive of natural effects ; the truth is,
that nature itself, in all its endless varieties, is but the
resultant of Spirit; or, if we prefer, the natural world is the
embodiment of the spiritual world.
That there is a spiritual world, distinct from the natural
world, is admitted by all Spiritualists. It is to these I speak
chiefly, trusting to be able to throw some light upon the law
which is made manifest in the production of what are called
“ spiritual phenomena.”
I have ho doubt but that most, if not all Spiritualists, who
have taken part in seances, and ;witnessed the wonderful dis¬
play of spirit force fand power in the physical manifestations,
have felt a secret dissatisfaction, and that in time these have
failed to give the pleasure and delight which the first
experiences yielded ; hence some, who have only been attracted
by ^curiosity, tire of seances, and give them up in disgust.
Even to the most enthusiastic Spiritualist, and to those who
are patiently investigating and recording the facts of
Spiritualism, there arises in the mind a desire to know the
how, the why, and the wherefore.
The great end and object of those spirits who are now
* Boswell says that the blank might be thus filled up, “was told by an
apparition ”—the writer being probably uncertain whether he was asleep or
awake, when his mind was impressed with the solemn presentiment with
which the facts afterwards so wonderfully corresponded.
operating in nature, is by the exhibition of the phenomenal to
excite the minds of mortals to the contemplation and study of
spirit, and spiritual life ; hence the great variety in the mani¬
festation of spirit force, from the simple A B G of table-turning
and rappings, to the X Y Z of full materialised spirit forms,
gifted, in appearance, for the time being, with every faculty
pertaining to the human mortal. The operating spirits are, as
they confess, subject to law as inflexible on their side, as we
are on our side. Few of these, it may be, know what this law
is, but all admit being under the direction and control of some
higher intelligences than themselves; these higher intelli¬
gences are those in possession of superior knowledge and
wisdom, hence they use the lower spirits as intermediates, who
modify and adapt the communications to suit the capacities
of those to whom such communication or revelation is made;
for, as water cannot flow into channels or receptacles higher
than its source, so neither can truth, which is spiritual water,
flow into minds, unless these are prepared and opened to
receive high and spiritual truths.
This preparatory state must be furnished, and is now in
process of formation, and as the desire to receive higher and
purer truths is awakened, then the means or vessels are pro¬
vided, into which high and pure spiritual truth can and will
flow. It is a mistake to suppose that knowledge can flow in
without effort on our part; the effort must be made to acquire
sound and exact science, and to do this we must make our¬
selves acquainted with the rules or principles which apply to
the spirit. Now, I maintain that these rules or principles
are in existence, and they only require to be known to be ap¬
preciated by those who wish to have truth above all things
else. These principles or rules of interpretation, or, in other
words, the knowledge of what is and what is not true, are
clearly laid down in the writings of Emanuel Swedenborg, who
may be characterised as the philosopher of spirit.* What
Euclid is to the mathematician, who can by his rules resolve
any problem in which natural numbers, weights, measures,
distances and densities are involved, so Swedenborg is to the
Spiritualist. By the rules he gives, any and every problem
pertaining to the human spirit, whether embodied or dis¬
embodied, may be resolved, that is, it may be known. Noble
and magnificent is the work Euclid has done for the sciences
and arts, and the results could not have been developed into
their present proportions without Euclid; yet it was years and
centuries before the value of his propositions was appreciated,
and the capabilities of his system tested by their inherent
power to demonstrate any mathematical problem which the
mind of man could or can conceive. So it is that the writings
of Swedenborg, with the profounder rules of spiritual
philosophy, are as yet but very little known, and still less
appreciated, although I am bold to affirm that there is no
problem in spiritualistic and natural phenomena, which is
unresolvable by the rules he has given to mankind in his
philosphical and especially in his theological works. In these
there is contained a complete and exact science of metaphysics.
And not one question that engages the mind of man, in
reference to his spiritual or immortal organism, but what is
there anticipated, in one form or another. At least, this is
the result of my observation in reference to the great ques¬
tions agitating the scientific and religious worlds in the past
and present centuries. I know of but one Euclid, and I know
of but one Swedenborg; and when the names and persons of
both recede into oblivion, the principles enunciated by each
will never die, simply because the principles are true, and
truth cannot die, for truth is life manifested in form, so that
every existing form of organised life is the outward expression
of some underlying truth. The question, and the problem
presented by such appearance, is to know what truth is
expressed thereby. This knowledge is gained by the “ Science
of Correspondence,” that is, the understanding of the flow of
life from the spiritual into the natural world, which causes
all the things in nature to be presented to our vision, in the
forms in which they appear in the three great divisions of the
animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. But, as I have
trespassed too far on your space, the illustrations of the opera¬
tion of this law must be, by your permission, reserved for
another and future communication.
Manchester, June 18th, 1874.
* The writings of this illustrious man are common property, and
were so intended by the author. I hope the time is not distant when some
private and enterprising firms (as is the case in AmericaJ will publish them
on their own account. The original MSS. have been photo-lithographed, and
copies are deposited in the leading national libraries of this country and the
Continent, so that when the mind of the public becomes awake to the fact
of such treasures of literature being in existence, a demand will arise,
which will be best supplied by carrying out the above suggestion.—W. O.
310
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 26, 1874.
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
No. TI.
Br THE LATE J. W. EDMONDS, JUDGE OE THE SUPKEME
COUBT, NEW YOEK.
“It is an eleetrioity, but more perfected'than that with
which you are familiar, that which you term electricity.
“The first or lowest quality which pervades the human
system has an essential promotion to its formation, and is
what may be termed the vegetable motive element. This is a
better term to use than electricity, because you would other¬
wise associate it with electricity, as you see it in its common
form, and that would give you an erroneous idea. ‘ This is
one grade above the common electricity. Its sphere or func¬
tion is to give involuntary growth or action. It therefore is a
most essential element of all the plant creation. It is to the
vegetable creation what the soul is to the human creation.
Nearly all nature has a greater or less degree of this element
or quality.
“ The next may be termed the animal motive element.
This is still another grand grade or perfected form of elec¬
tricity, and is that substance which is; called odic force. It
is that which pervades the nervous system, and gives voluntary
motion. It is that which gives life to the nerves, and which
gives us sensation. This element is but one grade below the
soul, and is that through which you receive instinct. Animals
through this element show instinct which seemingly almost
amounts to impressions. Still they are not impressions in
reality, though nearly allied. The mind does not grasp the
idea, but receives the instinct, and acts accordingly, but not
from reason. As the vegetable element is (the soul of plants,
so this is the soul of animals. Ton will understand that I do
not mean to convey the idea that plants or animals have
organised, individualised souls, that will ever exist. Its or¬
ganisation is necessarily confined to organised bodies, and
when the body becomes disunited, this element must be dis¬
organised with it.
“ Next is the soul motive element, which is the grand micro¬
cosm of all below the divinity. This is an element which
baffles your efforts to analyse, as self cannot investigate self.
It is that] element which forms man, and constitutes him an
ever-existing, individualised being. It is superior to the
animal element, and therefore exists independently of the
physical body. It is the function of this element to indivi¬
dualise man, and gives to each one those peculiarities which
may distinguish him from all others.
“ The soul of the plant is positive to the plant, and negative
to animals.
“ The soul of animals is positive to animals, and negative
to man.
“ The soul of man is positive to man, but negative to God.
“ The three elements of the extended universe combine to
form man.
“ This is man physically. He is superior to the lower orga¬
nisation of nature, because their superior element is his
inferior element. The animal’s positive is man’s negative.
“ These three qualities are with, or|a part of, the soul after
leaving the body. As we spiritually are formed much as you
are physically, and as the vegetable is necessary to the growth,
and the animal to the motive power, it must exist in*the
spiritual world, though much more refined and elevated.”
In the course of my examination,’ I asked if I might not
know how this odic force was used ? I was told that it would
be explained to me; and it was afterward attempted through
the same medium :by whose instrumentality I received the
teaching which I have just written.
The manifestations on that occasion were of a very extra¬
ordinary character. I give them in the Appendix in the lan¬
guage in which he recorded them. If my readers knew him as
well as I do—if they were as well acquainted with the sim¬
plicity and uprightness of his character, they would be aware
how firmly they might rely upon his integrity and intelligence.
For my own part, I have never doubted the truthfulness of his
statement.
This is as far as I have been able to advance in answer to
this question. My attention was soon drawn to other matters,
namely, to the moral character of the teachings, and I was
compelled to leave that inquiry to others. I have related all
I know on that subject, in the earnest hope that some one
may pursue the investigation until we shall be able to under¬
stand it as well as we now do the steam-engine or the mag¬
netic telegraph, for surely it must be that the knowledge is
equally attainable by man.
But the law was universal in its action; and therefore it
had probably displayed itself ere this, and now would allow
the communion with inferior as well as superior spirits, and
through mediums whose physical organisation would allow it,
whatever their moral condition. Thus it was I argued, and
facts seemed to support the position.
In the first place, I found that both sacred and profane
history were full of accounts of what we are now witnessing.
I need not refer to all that is written on that subject in the
Bible. It will be enough that I refer to Hagar, Genesis xvi.;
to Abraham, Gen. xviii.; to Lot, Gen. xix.; to Jacob, Gen.
xxxi.; to Moses, Exodus iii.; to Balaam, Numbers xxii.; to
Gideon, Judges vi.; to Elijah, 1 Kings; to Zachariah, Zach i.;
to the two Marys at the sepulchre, Matthew xxviii.; to the
Virgin Mary and to the Shepherds, Luke i.; and the opening
the door of Peter’s prison, Acts v.; and to John in Revela¬
tions xxii.
The history of the Primitive Christian Church agrees at
least in this, that for three or four hundred years after Christ,
spiritual intercourse was frequent among the believers, and
its general diffusion seemed to cease only when the Church
began to lose its purity by being united with and fostered by
Government, when it was so affected by that union that it
was difficult to tell whether it was Christianity paganised,
or paganism Christianised, and when it plunged into the
dark ages that followed the eruption of the savages of
the North, and slumbered for a thousand years amid their
gloomy light.
Yet even then, if we may credit the traditions and private
histories of the Catholic Church, it was occasionally manifest.
After the Reformation, and the minds of men began to be
somewhat freed from the restraints which the religious domi¬
nation of centuries had imposed upon them, spiritual inter¬
course began again to display itself. But mankind, in their
ignorance, knew not how to deal with it. Instead of meeting
the intelligence rationally, as is now done, and asking whence
and why it came, it was met with prayers and fumigations,
and exorcisms in a dead language—nay! with the fagot and
the scaffold. About 200 years ago, under the administration
of one of the wisest of the English judges, hundreds were
tried and executed for the crime of witchcraft. The Act of 1
James I., ch. xii., against witchcraft, was passed when Lord
Bacon, one of the greatest minds that England has ever pro¬
duced, was a member of the House of Commons, and Lord
Coke, one of her most distinguished judges, was Attorney-
General, and in the House of Lords, was referred to a com¬
mittee which contained twelve bishops. And Barrington, in
his observations on the statute of 20 Hen. VI., says that
300,000 people were burned for witchcraft within 150 years.
aromapontrence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, wTto sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
WETTING MEDIUMSHIP OE A BABT.
Sib,—I happened to write to a friend, giving a further
account of the development of our little boy’s medial powers;
at his suggestion I will, so far as I am able, repeat what I
communicated to my friend.
The power of writing through the instrumentality of this
little fellow continues. Some few days ago, late in the
evening, his eyes sparkled, and the restlessness of his hands
warned Mrs. Jencken that he wanted to write. A large sheet
of paper, the only one at hand, was then placed before him.
He wrote a long, long sentence, covering the sheet of paper.
The message was of a private character, or else I would trans¬
scribe its contents; it contained, however, a prophecy, which,
as I have kept the record, I shall have the means of verifying.
On another occasion, the infant-boy wrote a short message,
drawing some figures, a cross, and signing the paper with his
initials, F. L. J.
On the same evening Mrs. Jencken was from home. I took
my child, to play with him. As he kept trying to catch my
gold chain, soft raps came, messages were spelt out, warning
me of the ever-watchful presence of those beings who appear
to surround us, unseen, but still present, and acting upon us
by a power we, as yet, so little understand.
At times Mrs. Jencken tells me that she has quite a
struggle to stop her child from writing;. but his tender age
needs the watchful care of a parent, who would rather disobey
the spirit-power controlling the child than imperil his infantine
strength. H. D. Jencken.
Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.O.
June 26, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
311
eeichenbach’s der sensitive mench.
Sib,—Your correspondent of June 5th, Mr. E. Wippreoht,
will be pleased to hear that an abridgement of Beiohenbach’s
work, Der Sensitive Mench, was published in the Zoist. I
cannot tell the volume, as I do not possess the work.
E. W. Bebridge, M.B. (Bond.)
4, Highbury New-park, N., June 19th, 1874.
MISS SHOWEES’ MEDITJMSHIP.
Sir,—Mr. Sergeant Cox in his letter of the 5th inst., in
commenting upon Mr. Dunphy’s evidence when speaking of
Miss Showers, apologises to him “for having mistaken for his
Mr. Coleman’s statement that he saw the medium with her
face covered with a shawl.” This is a mistake on the part of
Sergeant Coe, my remarks applied to a seance with Miss
Cook. I had never seen Miss Showers. But in correcting
this small error, it affords me the opportunity of telling Ser¬
geant Coe that I have now by the courtesy of Mrs. Ma.k-
dougall Gregory had the pleasure of meeting Miss Showers at
& seance on the 17th inst.
As Sir Charles Isham was present and took notes, he will
doubtless give all necessary particulars, and describe to you
the principal incidents of that evening. I will merely relate
as briefly as possible the points which arrested my attention,
and proved conclusively the entire integrity of all concerned.
Mr. Dunphy conducted the seance, and showed, in the first
place, the impossibility of confederacy in any shape. Miss
Showers, whose speaking voice in ordinary conversation is low
and gentle, was dressed in a dark silk evening costume, with
lace trimming.
Shortly after she had entered the inner room, used as a
cabinet, there came forth from behind the curtain a full-
formed female figure, dressed in pure white, with a turban on
her head, and with long sleeves. This figure was some inches
taller than Miss Showers, and showed her naked feet.
I thought there was some likeness to Miss Showers, and her
gentle, quiet tone of voice and sedate manner seemed like hers.
I asked the spirit if she would show me her teeth (which
could not be seen when speaking), and she opened her lips for
an instant to do so. There was no hair visible, and she wore
a short gauze veil around her face. This was the spirit known
as Florence Maples.
I am bound to say, were I witnessing this part of the seance
as a sceptic, without any previous eEperience, and especially
if I were a real man of science, or one pretending to some
scientific acquirements, I should have hesitated before giving
in my adhesion to the reality of what I witnessed, but I hope
at the same time I should have had the good sense not to
condemn on insufficient evidence.
Had this been my position on this occasion, which I need
hardly say it was not, I must have banished all doubts on the
appearance of the spirit calling herself Lenore.
Here was at once presented a distinct individuality differing
in many ways from either the medium or Florence. Her
dress and turban were white, and her feet were naked, but
she differed from the other by having a long veil, which did
not cover her face. She had a quantity of hair falling over
both shoulders, her arms were bare, and she was several inches
shorter than Florence.
The difference, too, of temperament was very marked. She
was eEtremely vivacious and coquettish in manner, with
features smaller and more refined than the other, and when
speaking, she showed a somewhat prominent set of teeth. This
fact alone is enough to compel scepticism to yield, whatever
there may appear suspicious in other respects.
I am sorry Serjeant Coe, who claims to be in search of
“ the very truth,” whilst implying that Mr.Crookes and other
men are not, will "not have the opportunity of seeing the
indisputable, convincing facts, which satisfy me and others. I
think he has been entirely wrong in his conduct to Mrs.
Showers and her daughter, and to uphold his false position, he
has, by implication, charged all others with being dupes, or
confederates to support a fraud. What wonder, then, that he
should have eEoited the indignation of at least one hundred
intelligent men and women, who will not in future care what
Mr. Serjeant Coe may say or think on this or any other subject.
Upper Norwood, June 19th, 1874. B. Coleman.
SPIRITUALISM AND CONJURERS.
Sib,—A letter, signed “ A Spiritualistic Humbug according
to Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke,” is printed in your issue of
last week; and although 1 object to answering anonymous
communications as a rule, 1 reply, in this instance, thinking
that I may perhaps give your readers some information upon
the question at issue. Your correspondent asks whether my
high priest (a new name for my friend, Mr. Maskelyne), “ will
go to an unknown private house by invitation, give his word of
honour that he has no apparatus of any kind about his person,
indeed, anything that can be turned to account; and will he
also, if requested, allow himself to be searched as a profes¬
sional medium will. And then will he sit at a circle of inves¬
tigation, and allow each foot to be tied to the legs of a chair,
or placed against the side of a foot of each person between
whom he shall sit, and by whom his hands shall be firmly
held ? If so, wbat phenomenon will he undertake to produce.”
Without wasting time and space in criticising the ungram¬
matical and awkward construction of your writer’s sentences,
I will proceed to deal with his meaning. If “ Spiritualistic
Humbug ” has at any time been one of the “ gaping crowd,”
to use his own dignified description of the audiences at the
Egyptian Hall, he must be aware that Mr. Maskelyne tells his
audience that all they will witness will be accomplished by
trickery, and not by supernatural agency. Then, why does
your correspondent ask me such absurd questions ? whereas it
would only be reasonable on my part, were I to require of him
the presence of his pet medium at the Egyptian Hall, and
place him or her under the same conditions as “ Humbug ” asks
Mr. Maskelyne to submit to. Human ingenuity is limited, but
we eEpect from spirit power something beyond the grasp and
power of man. The unusual epithets (if there be any) con¬
tained in our advertisements, generally apply to paid and pro¬
fessed media; my own personal eEperience is entirely confined
to the doings of these people; and I have never witnessed any
manifestations where money or worldly gain has not been the
root of it. “ Humbug ” charges me with publishing untruthful
advertisements, and insulting the common-sense of the clergy¬
men who have sent congratulatory letters. I cannot admire
the holy, spiritual charity here displayed; and allow me to
tell this good man that I am the author of the advertisements,
and that they are true and not false. In conclusion, I may
add that I am open to jcpnviction, and if some of the much
talked of spiritual phenomena are produced in my presence
where the sitters are absolutely beyond the reasonable possi¬
bility of trickery, I shall alter my position with regard to what
I now term a false doctrine. W. Mobton.
Egyptian Hall, June 16.
Sir,—“ A Spiritualistic Humbug, according to Maskelyne
and Cooke,” will find the question as to whether or no these
gentlemen are likely to submit their profession of eEposing
Spiritualism to a fair test, completely disposed of in the cor¬
respondence published under the title of “ £1,000 Eeward, by
Iota,” and advertised in your columns. Experto Crede.
June 14th, 1874  
THE TEACHINGS OR SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—In a recent article in the Pall Mall Gazette, entitled
“ The Moral Philosophy of Spiritualism,” it is asserted that
Spiritualism “ supplies no new motive to cultivated believers
in immortality, while it deprives uncultivated superstition of
its one redeeming quality”—that is to say, and as is said in a
former part of the article, that the brutal man “will only be
encouraged by the abolition of a physical hell.” There is
something very reckless in the assertion, that cultivated
believers in immortality acquire no new motive for morality by
a belief in modern Spiritualism. It is much the same as
saying that Mr. Fawcett, the well-known Member of Parlia¬
ment, has lost nothing by his blindness. I suppose Dr. John¬
son was a cultivated believer in immortality, and yet what did
he say to Miss Seward, on her ridiculing the idea of an inquiry
into the reality of an apparition ? With solemn vehemence
he said, “ Yes, Madam; this is a question which, after five
thousand years, is yet undecided; a question, whether in
theology or philosophy, one of the most important that can
come before the human understanding.” After this, who can
doubt what course the noblest mind of the age would have
pursued with regard to the phenomena of Spiritualism ?
Then take Byron’s vague views of the soul’s infinitude, invisi¬
bility, passionlessness, and omniscience, portrayed so elo¬
quently and so beautifully in his sublime rhapsody commenc¬
ing with
“ When coldness wraps this suffering clay,”
can we suppose that the more sober and juster views of the
hereafter of the spirit taught by Spiritualism, if received and
believed in, would not have acted healthily on his moral being,
and spared humanity its grief and shame over one of the most
gifted of her sons ?
312
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 20, 1874.
The process of evolving a future out of our own conscious¬
ness may be very attractive to a certain class of minds, but
hardly, I should have thought, to the practical writers of the
Fall Mall, nor should I have thought them likely to have
assigned a greater motive power to the results of such a pro¬
cess than to the influence of positive, well-attested facts—facts,
indeed, made evident to the senses. With the Apostle John,
we base our claim to belief on what we have heard, what we
have seen with our eyes, what we have critically examined,
and what our hands have handled ; and with greater force than
John could, we add, what you may see for yourselves, what you
may test, and your hands may handle, that your conviction
may be certain, and your joy full.
Now, these results may be attained without ‘ ‘ the necessity
for having mediums and manifestations in every nursery and
every school.” I have now, for upwards of twenty years, been
conversant with the literature of Spiritualism. Having been long
convinced of the strong probability of the truth of the alleged
facts, by the variety and extent of the testimony and the nature
of the evidence, I have had opportunities, at various times, of
. convincing myself of the truth of the main facts by personal ex-
amition. Out of this process has grown a living faith, which,
compared with my previous speculative belief, however “ cul¬
tivated ” it may have been, is as light to darkness. Every
good thought and feeling that spring up in my mind I asso¬
ciate with some loving spirit who has impressed it there; and
abstract speculation has given place to grateful and living
communion. The doctrine of mediumship is the secret of all
true religion and spirituality. The Bible is full of it. Chris¬
tians are the temple of God, and are filled by his spirit. As
it may be objected that this is not said of any created being,
we answer, that the influences of ministering spirits is spoken
of. This cannot obtain without the person influenced being
mediumistic to the influencing person. Our Saviour only
opposed and destroyed injurious obsession. The gifts of the
early Christians were, in the majority of instances, beneficial
obsessions. The spiritual gifts of the early Christians are
being revived in this nineteenth century—a fact certainly
ignored by those who speak of diabolism as being the source
of the modern manifestations. As then, so now, there are
gifts of healing; there is speaking in tongues; there is trans¬
ference from place to place, levitation, and the loosing of
bonds. Now, as then, the secrets of the heart are made
manifest, and unbelievers convinced by the fact. Now, as
then, the same apparatus for the regeneration of man¬
kind by the personal influence of ministering spirits is
being exercised. Now, as then, to a greater extent,
and with much greater rapidity, the nations of the
earth are being softened, elevated, and enlightened. Mil¬
lions now for thousands then, vast districts and mighty
kingdoms, instead of limited- areas and comparatively small
principalities—and this in about one-eighth of the time—so
that in a quarter of a century there hardly remains an im¬
portant section of the civilised globe which has not felt the
influence of Spiritualism. On the American Continent Spirit¬
ualism has abolished slavery, for the votes of those millions
of Spiritualists—every Spiritualist, by virtue of his belief in
Spiritualism, an anti-slavery man—placed Abraham Lincoln
in the presidential chair, and thus necessitated the struggle
which ended in the freedom of the slave. In Bussia Spiritual
influence, commencing as far as we know with Madame
Krudner’s intimacy with the first Alexander, continued among
other members of the Imperial family through the medium-
ship of Home and others, took practical shape in the persua¬
sions of the spirit of the Czar Nicholas to induce Alexander
the Second to decree the emancipation of the serfs.
In the face of these facts we are asked to believe that
Spiritualism has added no new force to the moral influence of
a “ cultivated belief in immortality.”
What did the “cultivated belief in immortality” of the
sages before the coming of Jesus do for humanity during the
preceding centuries ? Their vague speculations bore no fruit
in practical morality; and not till the gentle virtues, the
loving utterances and deeds, the spiritual gifts and the actual
appearances after death of the Saviour had awakened man¬
kind from its torpor, did men find out how near heaven was
to earth, how easy communion between the worlds, and produce
the fruits of their faith in corresponding deeds. We love,
because we are first loved. This, of course, is not the only
ground of love; self-sacrifice for otheffe induces love towards
them; but the force of the reasoning remains unaltered,
which is that personal intercourse and acquaintance with facts
is more a moral power than abstract speculation. And this is
only known through personal ministration; healthy moral
action has its only true and natural basis in love—personal
love; this factor Spiritualism supplies. In this, philosophy
with its “ cultivated belief in immortality,” utterly and hope¬
lessly fails. If you think this rather lengthy letter, Mr. Editor,
worth insertion, I may be tempted shortly to trouble you with
another. Thomas Hayle.
Bochdale.
In some of the earlier numbers of The Spiritualist issued
last week the engraving was not well printed, and did not look
well, but in the majority of cases, including nearly all those
now in stock, this fault is absent.
Mb.. Geobge Fabmeb has opened a shop at 4, Kingsgate-
street, High Holborn, near Southampton-row, for the sale of
books and periodicals connected with Spiritualism. Complaints
about the difficulty and uncertainty of getting the Spiritualist
in that neighbourhood have been common for several years
past, but by the opening of the above business the difficulty
is removed.
Spibit Photogeaphy.—Mr. W. H. Gilbert Tate, pho¬
tographer, of 45, Cheapside, desires us to state that if any
photographer or medium who claims to obtain genuine spirit
photographs, will attend at his studio, and work under his
notice, he (Mr. Tate) will, in the event of any success in
obtaining results, guarantee the genuineness of such pictures.
Mr. Tate, some time back, made a similar offer to the above in
our columns, when several well-known mediums and Spiritual¬
ists responded, but without any successful results.
Seance at Mbs. Mabdottgaxe Geegoby’s.—On Thurs¬
day, last week, there was a seance at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London.
Miss Showers was the medium ; it was not a test seance; the
manifestations were of the ordinary description, and Mr.
Coleman gives some particulars about them in our correspon¬
dence columns. The guests present were Mrs. Showers, Sir
Charles Isham, Bart., Mrs. Boss Church, Mr. Helmore, Mrs.
and Miss Bamsay, Mrs. Yaughan, Lord Bayleigh, Mr. Lewis,
Mr. Fuller, Mr. Coleman, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, M. Gustave de
Yeh, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
W. H. GILBERT TATE,
PORTRAIT AND LANDSCAPE PHOTOGRAPHER.
STUDIO45, CHEAPSIDE.
(Opposite Wood-street), London, E.O.
List of Prices. £ s. d.
Album Portraits  ’   ... 6 for 0 5 0
„ „      12 „ 0 7 6
„ (2 positions)  ...' 12 „ 0 9 0
Group of two   12 „ 0 10 0
Tinting from Is 6d. each extra.
Vignettes             12 for 0 10 0
Tinted Ovals, “latest”   .,. ... ; 12 „ 0 12 6
Cameo Vignettes  | ...   ... ... 12 „ 0 15 0
Cabinet Portraits  j ...Ifor 3s. 6d. or 6 „ 0 10 6
Drawing Boom Portraits, size 8J by 6 j  0 10 6
„ I „ framed and coloured complete  110
The “Cheap ” Vignette Portrait, finished in Crayons, and best gold
frame... ■  complete 2 2 0
Locket Portraits I    each 0 2 6
„ „ coloured ■  from 0 3 6
Family Groups, Wedding and Croquet Parties, Invalids and others,
can be Photographed at their own residences, Terms, from £2 2s.
Extract from a Critique in the Photographic News, November 22nd, 1872.
“ Mr. W. H. Gilbert Tate, of 45, Cheapside, exhibits 'a frame of cards con¬
taining some well known portraits, all admirably rendered, rich, brilliant
delicate, skilfully arranged; there are no finer cards in the Exhibition.
Established in Comhill, 1862.
A "WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust; she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. Beferences exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Ely ton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.O.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC - SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PBOGBESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by(J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
M
BUGUET begs to announce to his country patrons
5 that carte de visite portraits are taken’at 33, Baker-street, Portman-
sqaare, during his stay in London, for the reproduction of deceased friends
or relatives. Price, with portrait of the sitter, 30s.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-EENTS, HOLBOBN, W.O.,
Bespectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
June 26, 1874.
BRITISH HATION;AL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873,)
Vice-Presidents.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the OREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIRYOTANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 jto 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-
street, Portman-square, London, ~W.  ,
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill.
Ooleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon.
Filz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Camhridge-street, Hyde-park-square.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square.
Hall, S. 0., F.S.A., Avenue-villa, Holland-street, Kensington.
Hohywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Branston-square, W.
Ross-Ohurch, Mrs. Florence Marryat, 21, Colville-gardens, Kensingston-
, park, W.
Senior, Mrs. H., 67, Rodney-street, Liverpool.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alfexandra-road, St. John’s-wood
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Caims-road, N.E.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, OUfton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terraee, Norwich.
Dinsdale, Joseph, 15, Caird-street, West Derhy-road, Liverpool.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hil), Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Hill-side, Streatham, S.W.
Harper, Robert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, E.O.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.'
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lewis, Charles Mansel, J.P., United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly; Carmarthenshire.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-hill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S, 14, Bumley-road, Stoekwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road, S.E.
Shepherd, J., Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Yictoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge,.Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Attenberg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Eeq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow., E.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adehna Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gfatz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon, Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummontou, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
Joseph Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
0. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Route, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M.JLeymarie, M.D., Paris.
Dr. Nehrer, Vienna.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in* Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. 0. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica=
ion by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED' by R. W. Flint,
1^ 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Marii-lane. Price One Penny.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4|d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
COMPANION or GOYERNESS in a Spiritualist’s Family.
28 years of age. Acquirements—English in all Branches. Drawing
Heads in Crayon and Perspective Landscape from Nature. German, lived
one year in Germany. French, Italian, Music, and Needlework. Good
References. Address C; S., Morley’s Library, Forest-hill, London.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. JACKSON’S Table d’Hote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive movei
ments, should subscribe to the
“ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual«and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
All applications for membership to be made by letter to the Editor,
Office of the Pioneer of Progress, 4, Kingsgate-Street, High Holborn
London, W.O.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jmras 26, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spieitttalism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869,' as follows
“H.G. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., O.E.; H, R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. VJ. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,.
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, ESq. ; B. M. Mos§, Esq.;
Robert Queleh, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; ',0; Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeoujans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and DrySdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. ,Gbx, Esql, Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq.,'B^rrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,,
Esq.; S W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred-fR. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this^Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character,! apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical'Society reported:—
“Tour committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no . pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’    
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to.' write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained:
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Tels,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say,' “If. I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent-
System of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put'; “Are we sitting in the right,
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the-
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will’
be afterwards strengthened: Next ask, “-Who is the medium?” ■ When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues- and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive -
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly.bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best..
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
-Just published,
The second volume of « what am. i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s, 6d.
This Volume completes the work.. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the „ ■ ._'
Contents
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
TX. Thought Reading.
•20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. 'Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena.
Experiments.
28; The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co ' Patemoster-row.
OHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Ofthe Intelligent Motive Forces.
8, The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
; 9; Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition. ,
12. Of - Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and 'Uncon¬
sciousness.
II
BIREBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock. .
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales PressT
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
- “ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso
phical and high-class character.-’—Spiritualist.
, “ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
elo quent. ’ ’—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J.. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces', to' attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed'to,his private residence, Warwick Gottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
HENR'Y B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church). 7
;Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper!
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations _ of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will ho submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter; with stamped envelope for reply, to O, W., 41, Bemard-street,
Russell-square. Applicants may, call, if preferable. ■
End of Volume Four.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holboiai Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of SftAndrew*
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published byJE. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London, E.O.
